02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined Representatives Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and Gerry Connolly (VA-11) to introduce a Joint Resolution that would prevent any U.S. withdrawal from NATO unless and until Congress approves such a move. Hurd also helped introduce legislation last month, the NATO Support Act, which reiterated strong congressional support for NATO and overwhelmingly passed the House on January 22. “NATO has contributed to the peace and prosperity of North America and Europe for 70 years. Just as NATO has stood with us time and time again, we must always stand with them. I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation that reaffirms the role of Congress, as a coequal branch of government, in continuing the strong transatlantic bond that unites our nations,” said Rep. Will Hurd, who served side-by-side with NATO forces as a CIA officer in Afghanistan. “NATO is and will remain a critical force for deterring Russian attempts to corrupt western democracy and for permanently underwriting U.S. and allied security. There is no more comparable collection of capable, coordinated, and effective nations at preserving the common defense than this alliance. I am pleased to lead my House colleagues in introducing this bipartisan effort to ensure that Congress is an active participant in guaranteeing the security of free peoples on both sides of the Atlantic,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “Congressional oversight in matters related to the suspension, termination, or withdrawal from NATO is an absolute necessity to further establish our strong standing on the world stage. As our Framers intended, Congress must be consulted prior to the Executive Branch before making any decision that has the potential to disrupt the security of the United States and the alliances we hold. I am a strong supporter of NATO, and I’m proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort,” said Rep. Elise Stefanik. “NATO is the most successful military alliance in modern history and plays an invaluable role in protecting U.S. national security and global stability. As Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our NATO allies. This bill reaffirms that Congress will not permit the executive branch to unilaterally withdraw from NATO without the consent of the body – a coequal branch of government. It is more critical now than ever that the Alliance operate from a position of strength and common resolve,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly. The resolution is companion legislation to a bipartisan Senate resolution introduced earlier this month and would ensure U.S. leadership in the most effective alliance in world history for the foreseeable future. The legislation comes as Congress seeks to cement investments made in NATO over the last several years and over the alliance’s 70-year history, and as western democracies continue to face an active and serious threat from Russia. Measures included in the Joint Resolution: Prohibiting the U.S. suspension of, termination of, or withdrawal from NATO without consultation with Congress. Requiring notification to Congress within 48 hours of any Administration’s effort to suspend, terminate, or withdraw from NATO. Requiring an affirmative 2/3 vote in the Senate or Act of Congress to approve any decision to suspend, terminate, or withdraw from NATO. Authorizing Congressional counsel to defend Congress’ rights, powers, and authority as expressed in the above provisions. The full text of the bill can be found here.
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) introduced a bipartisan bill with Rep. Susan Davis (CA-49) to reauthorize the grant program Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), continuing his efforts to champion educational opportunities for Texans. U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. This competitive grant program helps low-income middle and high school students prepare for college and their careers through counseling, tutoring, mentoring and scholarships. Last year, Texas was awarded more than $25 million in new yearly grant funding including new grants for Sul Ross State University (Sul Ross) and the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). Sul Ross State’s GEAR UP grant is funded at more than $900,000 a year. More than 1,100 GEAR UP students from the Alpine, Del Rio, Fort Davis, Fort Stockton, Marathon, Marfa, Presidio, and Terlingua school districts will be served by the seven-year grant. UTEP’s GEAR UP program has served area students since its first grant cycle in 1999 and is currently funded at over $2 million a year. This program will provide comprehensive support to students in 10 Ysleta Independent School District (YISD) middle schools. UTEP partners with numerous outside organizations such as the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas-El Paso Branch to promote financial literacy and career development and El Paso Electric to promote Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) events, career fairs and mentorship activities. “Ensuring access to educational opportunities for Texans of all backgrounds strengthens our economy, drives innovation across all industries and allows folks to overcome socioeconomic challenges that are influenced by education inequality,” said Hurd. “GEAR UP serves thousands of local students in my district and gives them the tools they need to become valuable contributors to our workforce. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that every student has an equal chance for success.” “Our local schools should be able to use grants to cater specifically to their students’ needs,” Sen. Cornyn said. “This legislation will bring even greater local control in the GEAR UP program, from which many students in Texas have already benefited. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure students don’t fall behind, improve college completion rates, and ensure decisions rest with those who know our students best.” “With college dropout rates some of the highest among low-income students, programs like GEAR UP are essential to helping students who start college graduate,” said Rep. Susan Davis, Chair of the Higher Education and Workforce Investment Subcommittee. “The GEAR UP program’s proven success means expanding the program will put more low-income students who start college in a position to finish college.” “Being in a region filled with small towns, it sometimes feels like our students’ potential can be overlooked, but GEAR UP shows that we are making a difference in their lives. We are expanding their educational experience and closing the learning gap,” said Sul Ross GEAR UP Director Monica Saenz. “The GEAR UP program has proven to be a catalyst for educational attainment and progression to a post-secondary degree. Our GEAR UP grant results in more students completing high school and pursuing a college degree” said Gary Edens, Ed.D., Vice President for Student Affairs at UTEP. “We applaud Rep. Will Hurd’s continued efforts to champion GEAR UP programs for students of color across the country. San Antonio ISD (SAISD) has been the recipient of two GEAR UP grants serving the Class of 2012 and 2017. With the support of these grants, the SAISD Class of 2017 outperformed every class from 2011 through 2016 on a baseline comparison of 2011 data to the Class of 2017 performance. GEAR UP students report that much of their success is due to the dedication of GEAR UP staff, who have known and supported them since the 7th grade. The staff have followed them as they enrolled in college, enlisted in the military, and embarked on a diverse set of careers. We look forward to future GEAR UP competitions and the opportunity to submit new applications to provide thousands of additional SAISD students the college awareness and access benefits that past GEAR UP cohorts have received,” said Roxanne Rosales, San Antonio ISD GEAR UP Grant Manager.
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Kay Granger announced that U.S. Representative Will Hurd was selected to serve on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs along with the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development. These subcommittee assignments will allow Hurd to continue finding bipartisan solutions for veterans, for infrastructure priorities, and for the needs of Texas’ critical military bases. “I am proud to be appointed to two productive subcommittees that will allow me to continue to deliver for South and West Texas, said Hurd. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to better serve our veterans, rebuild our roads, and advance projects that can better serve the communities I represent.” “Will represents critical military installations and over 1,000 miles of federal highways in South and West Texas,” said Committee Ranking Member Kay Granger (TX-12). “He will bring a much-needed Texas and national security perspective to these subcommittees.” “We are delighted to hear of Congressman Will Hurd’s prestigious appointment and want to offer our congratulations and full support to help inform him on transportation solutions to serve the people of the state of Texas,” said J. Bruce Bugg, Jr., Chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission. “Congressman Hurd has demonstrated his willingness to tackle tough issues and work hard on behalf of our nation and our state. His leadership and tenacity will be a great asset for the Committee on Appropriations and I look forward to continuing our work together.” “Having Congressman Hurd on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee will be critical for our national defense,” said John Agather, Chairman of the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “With Military USA (San Antonio) in his district and his in-depth cybersecurity career experience, Congressman Hurd has acquired a depth of knowledge and acumen that will serve both his district and the State of Texas well.” “Congressman Hurd has been a forceful advocate for Laughlin AFB since his arrival in Congress in January 2015. His nine years at the CIA to include a tour of duty as an operations officer in South Asia provided him a unique perspective on national security. This experience provided Mr. Hurd with a foundation to fully support Laughlin AFB and all the citizens of 23rd District, said Blanca Larson, Executive Director of the Del Rio Chamber of Commerce. As a member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee as well as the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development he will be able to ensure the needs of the 23rd District are addressed in an effective and fair manner. His appointment is an acknowledgement of the outstanding work in service to the 23rd as well as to the nation.” “Congressman Will Hurd is cognizant of the needs of the citizens he represents and does not hesitate to assist in whatever he can to ensure their health and well-being. After numerous TCEQ violations for exceeding the arsenic level and unsuccessful applications for funding, with the support of Congressman Hurd, the El Paso County Tornillo Water Improvement District (EPCTWID) obtained funding for the construction of an arsenic treatment facility. In March 2017 the arsenic treatment facility was completed and placed in operation and is now providing good quality drinking water to the small community of Tornillo, Texas,” said Francelia Vega, Asst. Business Manager, El Paso Tornillo Water Improvement District. “The needs in colonias are tremendous. Having Congressman Hurd serve in the Appropriations Committee will be of tremendous help to people in need.
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) proudly joined his House colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass two important national security bills to make clear that the United States stands with our allies and holds our enemies accountable for their actions. “When it comes to maintaining our national security, it’s imperative that we play nice with nice guys and tough with tough guys,” said Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer who served alongside NATO forces in Afghanistan and has been a national security thought leader in the House since 2015. “These recent votes show that there is overwhelming bipartisan support from Congress, a coequal branch of government, to value our allies and stand up to our enemies. I’ll continue to work hard with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find ways to keep Americans safe from foreign threats.” Last week, Hurd joined his colleagues to introduce the NATO Support Act, which reinforces Congress’s support for the North Atlantic treaty organization (NATO), the largest and most successful military alliance in the world. The bill supports NATO member efforts to increase defense spending and promotes robust funding for the European Deterrence Initiative to counter Russian aggression. Hurd urged his colleagues to support this bill. Watch the full remarks, here. Hurd is also an original co-sponsor of the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019, which furthers Congress’s efforts to support a peaceful, prosperous Syria and hold the Assad regime accountable for their blatant disregard for human life and basic decency. The bill imposes sanctions on individuals and organizations who have provided support to the Assad Regime or conducted business with Russia and Iran’s proxy forces in Syria. Over 500,000 people have been killed since the beginning of the Syrian Civil War, many at the hands of Bashar Al-Assad’s forces. A former undercover CIA officer, entrepreneur and cybersecurity expert, Hurd has long been a national security leader in Congress, serving on the Homeland Security and Intelligence Committees and the IT Subcommittee. He has written dozens of bills since his first term in 2015 to help keep Americans safe.
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined Reps. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Jim Himes (CT-04) to introduce bipartisan legislation that will toughen the United States’ position against national security threats posed by technology competitors like China. China’s state-directed and state-supported efforts to achieve economic dominance by stealing intellectual property from American businesses are well-documented. Meanwhile, the over-reliance of Americans on foreign products that have been identified as national security risks – such as cell phones made by Chinese telecom giants Huawei and ZTE – creates major supply chain risks. “China’s coordinated assault on American companies, the U.S. government and American intellectual property is part of a broader strategy aimed at attaining leadership in advanced technology and 21st century great power politics. We must continue to hold bad actors accountable,” said Congressman Will Hurd, who spent nearly a decade fighting to secure our homeland as an undercover officer in the CIA. “I am proud to join my colleagues today to introduce this bipartisan bill that ensures that our nation uses every tool in our arsenal to combat this continued national security threat and keep Americans safe.” “We can’t be too tough when it comes to our national security,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We have long suspected Beijing uses its telecom companies to spy on Americans and we know China is responsible for up to $600 billion in theft of U.S. trade secrets. It’s time to get our ducks in a row: we need a coordinated, dedicated team armed with a long-term plan to ensure America maintains superiority.” “Passivity in the face of increased global threats would be a grave mistake,” said Congressman Himes. “Through the establishment of this office, we will not only increase our capacity to respond to Chinese aggression, but also signal to geopolitical rivals around the world that we will fiercely defend our national security, technology and intellectual property. This step is long overdue and will hopefully move us further toward a comprehensive cyber strategy.” “Chinese telecommunications giants, such as Huawei and ZTE, have well established ties to the Chinese Communist Party and a long history of providing a vehicle for the Chinese government to spy on American citizens and our federal government,” said Congressman Conaway. “It’s critical that we respond to these rising national security threats aggressively, and utilize whatever tools we have available to prevent foreign entities from harming our country.” The bill will create a new office within the White House that will serve as a central coordinator to combat the assault on American innovation which threatens our national security. The executive-level Office of Critical Technologies & Security will be tasked with interagency coordination and creating a long-term strategic plan to combat state-sponsored technology theft and supply chain vulnerabilities. The Office of Critical Technologies & Security will consult with federal regulators, the private sector, academics and experts to make sure every available tool is being used to protect the supply chain and emerging technologies. The legislation is the House companion to a bipartisan bill in the U.S. Senate sponsored by Sens. Mark Warner (D-VA) and Marco Rubio (R-FL). For a copy of the bill text, click here.
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, former CIA undercover officer U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined his colleagues to condemn the Administration’s decision to terminate sanctions on three Russian companies. After leaving the House floor, Hurd released the following statement: “Russia will stop at nothing to erode trust in our democratic institutions and threaten our allies,” said Hurd, who called for U.S. action against Russian covert operations long before the 2016 election. “We must continue to show Vladimir Putin and other bad actors across the globe that there are consequences for their actions. America cannot tolerate Moscow’s aggressive behavior.”
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – After a successful four years securing big wins for South and West Texans and leading many conversations in Congress on national security and technology issues, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) was chosen by his colleagues to serve on the prestigious House Appropriations Committee. This committee decides public funding amounts across the federal government, including for many important projects across the 23rd District of Texas, including but not limited to: Funding our national defense, including the military bases in and near TX-23 at Del Rio’s Laughlin Air Force Base, El Paso’s Fort Bliss and Joint Base San Antonio; Keeping Americans’ precious online information safe from hackers by incentivizing our federal agencies to update their digital infrastructure; Ensuring TX-23’s eight national parks and historic sites, including Big Bend and the San Antonio Missions, are cared for; and, Providing grant funding for many local healthcare, energy and infrastructure projects, from repairing West Texas roads along the Permian Basin to helping our community health centers. “The House Appropriations Committee funds efforts that not only are crucial to our national security, but also impact the everyday public health and safety of communities I represent and fight for each day in Congress,” said Hurd, the first Representative in over a decade to serve the 23rdDistrict of Texas for three consecutive terms. “I am humbled to be able to bring a South and West Texas perspective to this powerful committee, and I look forward to continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the political aisle to secure even more wins in Congress for my District, the great state of Texas and the nation.” “Will is one of the most innovative and entrepreneurial members in Congress. He has a proven track record of passing legislation that brings our government into the 21st century, saving billions of dollars, and delivering better results for the American people. As our government faces unique challenges in a changing world, Will’s creative approach will be called upon as we work for a more effective, efficient, and accountable government,” said House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23). “I am excited to welcome my friend and fellow Texan Rep. Will Hurd to the Appropriations Committee,” said Committee Ranking Member Kay Granger (TX-12). “Rep. Hurd is an authoritative voice in the House, especially on national security and technology, and is a tireless advocate for his constituents. I look forward to working with him and the rest of the Committee to secure funding for important priorities for our state and the nation.” The Appropriations Committee has stood as one of the most prestigious committees in Congress since the Civil War in 1865, directly executing the “power of the purse” authority granted to Congress in Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the U.S. Constitution.
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – One of the first pieces of legislation to pass this year is a bill to help make sure that Americans’ online identities safe from hackers. Today the House unanimously voted to strengthen national cybersecurity by passing U.S. Reps. Will Hurd (TX-23) and Robin Kelly (IL-02)’s Federal CIO Authorization Act of 2018. Rep. Hurd spent his career in the CIA keeping Americans safe from global threats and has continued to do so in Congress by championing this bipartisan bill that helps keep Americans’ sensitive online information safe from hackers. “From our bank account and credit card numbers to our social security numbers, bad actors across the globe are working around the clock to hack into our digital infrastructure and steal our personal data. Americans need to know that we are doing everything we can to keep their most precious information safe,” said Hurd, a computer science major, cybersecurity entrepreneur and leading voice for IT modernization in Congress. “This bill helps keep the vast information stored by the federal government secure from hackers by making clear that the Federal CIO is in charge of the security of our data across the government. I am proud to lead this bipartisan effort with my friend Rep. Robin Kelly so we can strengthen national cybersecurity and catch our federal government up with the 21st century.” “I’m glad that the House has moved quickly to again pass this important bill. Using business and states as a model, we’ve seen how a strong CIO office can help streaming IT processes and accelerate modernization,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly. “As in the 115th Congress, I’m glad to see that IT modernization remains a bipartisan priority in this Congress.” This bipartisan initiative ensures the Federal CIO oversees the security of our digital infrastructure and streamlines the IT reporting structure within the Administration by: Elevating the Federal CIO’s role as a Presidential appointee who directly reports to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB); Codifying the Federal Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) as a Presidential appointee reporting to the Federal CIO; Directing the Federal CIO to submit a proposal to Congress for consolidating and streamlining IT across federal agencies; and, Reauthorizing and renaming the Office of E-Government as the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO). This legislation introduced by Hurd and Kelly in the 115th Congress passed unanimously out of the House on November 30, 2018.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined his colleagues in an act of solidarity with the millions of Jewish people across the nation and world in condemning antisemitism by passing the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act. Hurd was proud to cosponsor this initiative and issued the following statement after walking off the House floor: “Antisemitism, racism, and bigotry of any kind simply has no place in today’s society,” said Hurd. “We must continue setting an example for the rest of the world by standing tall against hate and showing that only light can conquer darkness. I am proud to support my Jewish brothers and sisters across South and West Texas and will continue to ensure all my constituents are advocated for in Congress.” "It is no secret that anti-Semitism is on the rise in the U.S. and around the world. This bill prioritizes the importance of combating anti-Semitism and showing that we will stand up against hate. We want to thank Rep. Hurd for cosponsoring this bill and always standing with our Jewish community to ensure peace and security for our region and throughout the U.S.," said Rabbi Jeffrey Abraham, Congregation Agudas Achim, Temple Beth-el San Antonio. This bill ensures the U.S. State Department continues to heavily prioritize efforts to counter antisemitism around the globe by elevating the top official tasked with this to the rank of ambassador. The appointment of this top envoy will require the approval of the U.S. Senate.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Will Hurd (TX-23) and Robin Kelly (IL-02) continued their efforts to strengthen national cybersecurity by introducing a bipartisan bill to elevate and reauthorize the role of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO), who oversees the security of our digital infrastructure across the federal government. “Every single minute of every single day, hackers are trying to steal Americans’ information. From credit card numbers, to social security numbers, our personal information is targeted by bad actors around the globe. Americans should be able to trust their government to keep their information safe,” said Hurd, a computer science major, cybersecurity entrepreneur and leading voice for IT modernization in Congress. “This bill helps keep the vast information stored by the federal government secure from hackers by making clear that the Federal CIO is in charge of the security of our data across the government. I am proud to introduce this bill with my friend Rep. Robin Kelly so we can continue to work toward finally catching our federal government up with the 21st century.” “Reauthorizing and codifying the roles of the Federal CIO and CISO will help streamline government IT processes and advance modernization efforts to bring government into the 21st century. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation to increase government effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness unanimously passed the House during the 115th Congress; we need to get this done in the 116th Congress," said Rep. Robin Kelly. This bipartisan initiative creates a clearer IT reporting structure within the Administration by: Elevating the Federal CIO’s role as a Presidential appointee who directly reports to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB); Codifying the Federal Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) as a Presidential appointee reporting to the Federal CIO; Directing the Federal CIO to submit a proposal to Congress for consolidating and streamlining IT across federal agencies; and, Reauthorizing and renaming the Office of E-Government as the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO). This legislation introduced by Hurd and Kelly in the 115th Congress passed unanimously out of the House on November 30, 2018.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In response to the recent announcement by the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation to counter Chinese national security threats, former CIA undercover officer and cybersecurity entrepreneur U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23), who chairs the House IT Subcommittee and serves on the Homeland Security and Intelligence Committees, issued the following statement: “‘We are in a hot war with China, and cyber space is the battle space. I’ve said time and time again that we must play nice with nice guys, and tough with tough guys. This is no different. There must be consequences for digital attacks that compromise our national security.’ ‘China views hacking as a means to attain leadership in advanced technology and 21st century great power politics and is currently working to improve its position at the expense of other nations. This systemic breach was undertaken by a hacking group, APT 10, with clear links to the Chinese Ministry of State Security, clearly violating our countries’ shared cyber commitments from the 2015 Xi-Obama Memorandum. I applaud today’s announcement, which sets a clear tone that the United States has zero tolerance for China’s deliberate efforts to steal our information and technology. Attribution is a deterrent against future cyber attacks, and we must continue to expose bad actors that threaten our intellectual property and national security.’ ‘As Chair of the IT Subcommittee I have been working since 2015 to improve our federal government’s ability to defend our digital infrastructure against cyberattacks. I am pleased that last night, the House and Senate passed a bipartisan national security package that ensures the Department of Homeland Security has the authorities to do just that, including establishing a process for the federal government to address critical supply chain risks to our digital infrastructure. I urge the President to sign the SECURE Technology Act into law as soon as possible so we can begin to take action.’”
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Museum and Library Services Act (S. 3530), a bipartisan initiative to ensure the continued success of our libraries and museums across the nation originally introduced by Senator Reed (D-RI). U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined representatives Reps. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Leonard Lance (NJ-07) and David McKinley (WV-01) to introduce the House companion and push the bill to the finish line. “Our public libraries, especially in rural areas, go far beyond simply providing books. They serve as the primary provider of literacy programming, technology training and job seeking assistance in many communities I represent across South and West Texas,” said Hurd, who represents more than one hundred public libraries, college libraries and school districts in the 23rd District of Texas. “The grant funding authorized through this bill directly serves libraries across our state and is vital for their continued success. I am glad my colleagues came together today in a bipartisan manner to support this bill, and I will continue to ensure that South and West Texans can continue to access quality educational resources.” “Libraries are centers of community life, providing opportunities for millions of Texans to discover their passion, and pursue education and career goals. On behalf of the Texas Library Association’s more than 6,000 members, we’d like to thank Representative Hurd and Senator Reed for supporting our libraries, and for their leadership on the reauthorization of the Museum and Library Services Act,” said Dana Braccia, Executive Director of the Texas Library Association. “We thank Representative Hurd and Senator Reed for their leadership in support of the important work of the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the thousands of libraries across the United States,” said Mark Smith, Librarian and Director of the Texas State Library and Archives Commission. “The Museum and Library Services Act will help state library agencies like ours in all states and territories continue to bring excellent library services to all communities. “Modernizing our libraries and museums and prioritizing a diverse workforce that reflects the communities they serve is critical to ensuring a lifetime of learning for all individuals—no matter their race, age, or socio-economic status,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva. “I’ve seen the important role that libraries play in educating and serving our communities, and I’m thrilled that more funding will be heading their way to help them fulfill their mission. This bipartisan legislation conquered the gridlock of Washington, and countless libraries across the country will now have the resources they need to improve their services and reach more people.” The bill is headed to the President’s desk. The Museum and Library Services Act renews federal museum and library grant funding programs administered by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, of which Texas public libraries receive nearly $11 million in federal assistance each year.
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the SECURE Technology Act, a bipartisan national security package that ensures our Department of Homeland Security (DHS) personnel have the resources needed to keep Americans safe from global threats in today’s interconnected world. The bill combines three bipartisan initiatives previously introduced in both the House and Senate that will ensure that DHS has the authorities to keep our digital infrastructure safe from cyber attacks. “Cyber security is national security. Not a day goes by that our critical infrastructure isn’t targeted by bad actors from every corner of the Globe,” said Hurd, a former CIA undercover officer who serves on the House Homeland Security and Intelligence Committees. “The SECURE Technology Act ensures that our federal agencies can better mitigate the risks to our networks and supply chains. I’m proud that my colleagues and I came together to support this bipartisan initiative to keep Americans safe across the finish line, and I’ll continue to do all that I can to deliver real results back home.” This bipartisan bill strengthens our national security by: Creating guidelines for addressing security vulnerabilities at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS); Establishing a bug bounty program at DHS to incentivize personnel to find and fix potential holes in their system; Establishing a process for the federal government to address critical supply chain risks. This proposal includes Majority Leader McCarthy’s Public-Private Cybersecurity Cooperation Act (H.R. 6735), Senator Hassan (D-NH) and Portman’s (R-OH) Hack the Department of Homeland Security of 2018 (S. 1281) and Senator McCaskill (D-MO) and Lankford’s (R-OK) Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act of 2018 (S. 3085).
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bipartisan bill, the DHS Data Framework Act, is officially on its way to the President’s desk today to be signed into law after the House unanimously concurred with the Senate version of the bill. This is Hurd’s 13th piece of legislation to be signed into law since 2015. Following the House voice vote, Hurd released the following statement: “We live in an increasingly connected world and must be able to get the right information to the right people at the right time in order to keep terrorists on the run and off our shores,” said Hurd, a former CIA undercover officer who serves on the House Homeland Security and Intelligence Committees in Congress. “The DHS Data Framework Act does just that by allowing DHS to quickly and safely share sensitive information among law enforcement agencies without compromising our nation’s secrets. I applaud Senator Maggie Hassan for introducing this bipartisan bill in the Senate and my House and Senate colleagues for getting this initiative to keep Americans safe across the finish line.” The DHS Data Framework Act codifies an effort at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop a data framework to incorporate all DHS component agency data related to homeland security, terrorist information, weapons of mass destruction and national intelligence into one system, thereby alleviating the current costly, cumbersome process of searching and vetting information against multiple databases with different log-ins, passwords, and legal restrictions. The data framework codified by the bill will also be replicated on a classified network to allow for more efficient classified analysis and vetting of law enforcement data against intelligence information.
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) proudly voted in support of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 Conference Report (commonly known as the Farm Bill), which provides our nation’s farmers and ranchers with certainty and stability to continue feeding America. “Food security is national security and depends on strong agricultural policy that provides certainty and stability for the 3.75 million Texans employed by the agriculture sector,” said Hurd, who represents over 9,000 working farms and ranches across South and West Texas. “I am proud to support the Farm Bill and will continue to fight for the hardworking men and women who put clothes on our backs and food on our tables.” “Texas Farm Bureau strongly supports the 2018 Farm Bill and appreciates Congressman Hurd for his support of hardworking farmers and ranchers,” said Texas Farm Bureau President Russell Boening. “Congressman Hurd has listened to the constituents of the 23rd Congressional District about the issues facing agriculture. His support of the farm bill demonstrates that he cares about the farm and ranch families in Texas and the U.S.” “It’s clear Congressman Hurd has listened to discussion of the issues facing farmers and ranchers in his district,” said former Texas Farm Bureau State Director Ronnie Muennink of Hondo. “I am one of several Medina County Farm Bureau leaders who have met with the Congressman about issues important to our grassroots members. Congressman Hurd has listened. We thank him for his attention to the issues affecting farmers and ranchers across the nation. Texas Farm Bureau members appreciate his support of the 2018 Farm Bill.” Among other benefits, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 Conference Report supports South and West Texas farmers and ranchers by: Cutting red tape and reforming burdensome regulations for farm production; Providing a $45 million annual increase to food banks, of which nearly half annually is devoted to the creation and maintenance of Farm-to-Food Bank programs, commonly known as ag surplus programs; Investing in quality rural broadband; Establishing a scholarship program to assist the next generation of farmers and ranchers; Promoting the conservation of America’s working lands; Strengthening the farm safety net by reauthorizing Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage options for the next five years; Protecting crop insurance; and, Maintaining the existing SNAP funding authorization.
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On December 5, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) met with Moldovan Speaker of Parliament Andrian Candu and Moldovan Ambassador to the United States Cristina Balan. They affirmed the importance of the US-Moldova bilateral relationship and discussed a range of issues, including Moldovan efforts to counter Russian influence operations and Moldova’s upcoming parliamentary elections. They also addressed the need for continued progress with Moldova’s democratic reforms so that it can strengthen its cooperation and integration with Europe and the West. “Moldova is on the front lines of Russia’s influence operations in Europe, and the U.S. needs to remain steadfast supporting Moldova’s efforts to counter Russia’s activities. This includes Moldova’s upcoming parliamentary elections, which need to be free, fair and transparent to enable Moldova to proceed with further democratic reforms and integration with Europe and the West. I look forward to continued cooperation with Moldova in the pursuit of shared interests.”
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bill, the DHS Data Framework Act, was passed unanimously by the Senate. After the House concurs with the Senate version’s language, it will be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. After hearing this tremendous news, Hurd gave the following statement: “We live in an increasingly connected world and must be able to get the right information to the right people at the right time in order to keep terrorists on the run and off our shores,” said Hurd, a former CIA undercover officer who serves on the House Homeland Security and Intelligence Committees in Congress. “The DHS Data Framework Act does just that by allowing DHS to quickly and safely share sensitive information among law enforcement agencies without compromising our nation’s secrets. I applaud Senator Maggie Hassan for introducing this bipartisan bill in the Senate and her colleagues for supporting this initiative to keep Americans safe.” The DHS Data Framework Act codifies an effort at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop a data framework to incorporate all DHS component agency data related to homeland security, terrorist information, weapons of mass destruction and national intelligence into one system, thereby alleviating the current costly, cumbersome process of searching and vetting information against multiple databases with different log-ins, passwords, and legal restrictions. The data framework codified by the bill also will be replicated on a classified network to allow for more efficient classified analysis and vetting of law enforcement data against intelligence information. Smooth passage is expected in the House.
12.07.2018	PERMIAN BASIN, TX – Today, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT)’s Texas Energy Sector Rural Improvement Program received $50 million through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s BUILD grant program to improve roads impacted by the Permian Basin energy boom in Winkler, Reagan and Glasscock Counties. U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23), was instrumental in securing the funds by penning a bipartisan letter of support signed by 21 members of Congress to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and by advocating for the projects separately to Deputy Assistant Secretary Sean McMaster. “The Permian Basin energy sector employs 444,000 people, fuels ten percent of our state’s economy and produces thirty percent of our nation’s oil and gas. With production in the Permian projected to double in the next five years, it is imperative that West Texans have access to safe, reliable highways to accommodate increasing traffic,” said Hurd, who represents Winkler and Reagan counties where grant funding will be allocated. “These funds will allow TxDOT to connect the needs of local residents with state and national planning efforts, so that hardworking West Texans can continue to power our economy safely. I was proud to advocate on behalf of my constituents for these much-needed infrastructure improvements, and I will continue to deliver real results for South and West Texans.” The BUILD grant funding will be allocated as follows: $25 million for the Winkler County Improvement Project, which will include a grade-separation overpass construction at SH 302, which has seen a nearly 400% increase in Northbound traffic and a 300% increase in Southbound Traffic, and SH 115, which has seen traffic increases of 175% in both directions; and, $25 million for the Glasscock and Reagan County Improvement Projects, a group of projects including a grade-separation overpass construction and strategic widening of SH 137 to add turning lanes at critical intersections, strengthened pavement structure and future fiber installation along the corridor.
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Will Hurd (TX-23) and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) today joined Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) to introduce the Missing Persons and Unidentified Remains Act of 2018, a bill to help local jurisdictions improve the recording and reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains found in South Texas. “Until we address the root causes of mass migration flows from Central America, individuals will continue to make the perilous journey north,” said Hurd, who represents more of the U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “This bipartisan bill helps prevent tragic deaths along the border by expanding CBP’s rescue and apprehension capabilities. In addition, it mitigates the burdens placed on state and local governments to identify perished individuals with the dignity they deserve. I am proud to join my fellow Texans Rep. Gonzalez and Sen. Cornyn in providing a solution for this very real challenge faced by law enforcement agencies across my district.” “Our nation has a chance to put more resources into helping identify the remains of missing persons, and to bring closure to families who know not whether to grieve, or continue the search,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “This piece of legislation would provide much-needed resources directed at finding answers for families across the U.S. Southwest Border. Passing this bill will help our ranchers and farmers, our counties, and our local sheriffs. I thank Congressman Hurd and Senator Cornyn for coming together to craft this bipartisan and bicameral piece of legislation.” “Our border communities have experienced the very real consequences of the treacherous journey travelled by many seeking to come to this country,” said Sen. Cornyn. “My hope is that this bill will help local communities identify those who have gone missing, process unidentified remains, and invest in forensic equipment to provide closure to families in the United States and abroad.” The Missing Persons and Unidentified Remains Act of 2018: expands eligibility to apply for grants under Jennifer’s Law to state and local governments, accredited government-funded CODIS forensic laboratories, medical examiners, accredited publicly-funded toxicology, crime, and university forensic anthropology center laboratories, and non-profit organizations that work with state and county forensic offices for entry of data into CODIS of NamUS authorizes use of grant funds to cover costs incurred since FY17 for transportation, processing, identification, and reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains of hiring additional DNA case analysts and technicians, fingerprint examiners, and forensic odontologists and anthropologists needed to support identification efforts of purchasing state-of-the-art forensic and DNA-typing and analytical equipment adds privacy protections for biological family reference samples uploaded into CODIS (Combined DNA Index System) by precluding disclosure of such information to Federal or state law enforcement agencies for law enforcement purposes expands CBP’s legal authority to purchase and deployment of up to 170 self-powering 9-1-1 cellular relay rescue beacons to mitigate migrant deaths on the southern border requires reporting to the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and the National and Missing Unidentified Persons System (NamUS) regarding missing persons and deceased individuals found in each applicant’s jurisdiction adds reporting requirements for the NamUS Program regarding the number of unidentified person cases, anthropology cases, suspected border crossing cases, and associations made adds reporting requirements for CBP and GAO on unidentified remains and use of rescue beacons Endorsements: National Criminal Justice Association; South Texans’ Property Rights Association; Texas Border Coalition; League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC); Church World Service; Colibri Center for Human Rights; Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd, U.S. Provinces; Franciscan Action Network; Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers); Hope Border Institute; Kino Border Initiative; La Frontera Ministries International, Inc.; Latin America Working Group (LAWG); Leadership Conference of Women Religious; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd; National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights; Sisters of Mercy of the Americas - Institute Justice Team; South Texas Human Rights Center; Southern Border Communities Coalition; Washington Office on Latin America.
12.05.2018	PECOS, TX – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) named Joshua Price and Daniel Paris of Pecos High School the winners of this year’s TX-23 Congressional App Challenge, a competition aimed at encouraging high school students to code by creating their own digital applications. After their friend lost his life in a car accident, the Pecos High School students created an application called “Drive Safe,” to provide a convenient way for drivers to contact emergency services and loved ones without having to reach for their phone after an accident. “In today’s interconnected world, the future of our nation’s economy and security depends on having enough creative problem solvers to tackle tomorrow’s problems,” said Hurd, a computer science major and cybersecurity entrepreneur. “I am proud of the hard work put in by Joshua and Daniel to learn coding concepts and create an app that not only pays tribute to their friend but also can potentially save lives. I also applaud the work of all the South and West Texas students who participated in this year’s challenge, and I will continue to champion initiatives that encourage all of our students to learn computer science.” "For the US to stay globally competitive, we, as teachers, must train our students to become innovative problem solvers. We must make it our duty to show them what's possible and give them opportunities to learn the technology that will get them there,” said Jerald Jolito, Pecos High School Science and Robotics Teacher. The Congressional App Challenge Winners receive $250 in Amazon Web Services promotional credits and a travel voucher courtesy of Southwest Airlines.
12.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The Fiber Optic Sensing Association (FOSA) today recognized Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) as a recipient of FOSA’s Champion of Innovation Award for 2018. The selection, based on the extraordinary leadership demonstrated by Hurd in the 115th Congress to make U.S. security programs more effective through advanced technology, was made at FOSA’s annual conference in Washington, DC. One of Representative Hurd’s signature bills in the 115th Congress was H.R. 3479, the “Secure Miles with All Resources and Technology Act” or SMART Act, a bill that directs the Department of Homeland Security to deploy the most practical and effective technology available, such as radar, tunnel detection technology, unmanned aerial vehicles, and sensors, to achieve situational awareness and operational control along the U.S. border. “Congressman Hurd has brought to the Congress his experience in both technology and national security,” said FOSA Vice-Chairman John Williams of OptaSense. “Augmenting border security through advanced technology has support on both sides of the aisle and we appreciate his leadership in this regard.” "We are pleased to recognize Congressman Hurd as a Champion of Innovation and look forward to working with him in the future,” Williams said. THE FIBER OPTIC SENSING ASSOCIATION (FOSA) FOSA is a non-profit organization created in Washington DC in 2017 with the mission of educating industry, government and the public on the benefits of fiber optic sensing. Through webinars, videos, white papers, public presentations and public policy advocacy, the organization provides information on the use of fiber optic sensing to secure critical facilities, enhance public safety and protect the environment. FOSA Members include Adelos Inc., AFL, AP Sensing, Asymmetric Technologies, Corning, Ditch Witch, Dura-Line, Emerson Electric, Fotech Solutions, Frauscher Sensor Technology USA, Hifi Engineering, Network Integrity Systems, NKT Photonics, OFS, Omnisens, OptaSense, OZ Optics, Prysmian Group and Smartpipe Technologies®. For further information, please visit the FOSA website.
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House unanimously passed the Federal CIO Authorization Act of 2018, introduced by House IT Subcommittee Chair Will Hurd (TX-23) and Ranking Member Robin Kelly (IL-02) to strengthen national cybersecurity by elevating and reauthorizing the role of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO), who oversees the security of our digital infrastructure across the federal government. “Every single minute of every single day, hackers are trying to steal Americans’ information. From credit card numbers, to social security numbers, our personal information is targeted by bad actors around the globe. Americans should be able to trust their government to keep their information safe,” said Hurd, a computer science major, cybersecurity entrepreneur and leading voice for IT modernization in Congress. “This bill helps keep the vast information stored by the federal government secure from hackers by making clear that the Federal CIO is in charge of the security of our data across the government. I thank my colleagues for coming together in a bipartisan manner today to work toward finally catching our federal government up with the 21st century.” “By codifying and reauthorizing the federal CIO and CISO roles, we will continue streamlining government IT processes. This effort is part of our larger push to finally bring government into the 21st century,” said Ranking Member Robin Kelly (D-IL02). “I’m proud to once again to join Chairman Hurd in advancing a bipartisan, commonsense bill that improves government effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness. Our subcommittee has always been focused on real, bipartisan solutions that work. As Democrats assume control of the House, this commitment to a bipartisan federal tech policy must and will continue.” This bipartisan initiative creates a clearer IT reporting structure within the Administration by: Elevating the Federal CIO’s role as a Presidential appointee who directly reports to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB); Codifying the Federal Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) as a Presidential appointee reporting to the Federal CIO; Directing the Federal CIO to submit a proposal to Congress for consolidating and streamlining IT across federal agencies; and, Reauthorizing and renaming the Office of E-Government as the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO).
11.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC —Reps. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) and Will Hurd (TX-23) today recognized #GivingTuesday as part of a global day for giving, volunteerism, and service to others. The lawmakers introduced a bipartisan resolution (H.Res. 633) last year to recognize the Tuesday following Thanksgiving, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday as #GivingTuesday, an opportunity to provide charitable giving to those in need. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard said: “United by a common purpose to be of service to others, #GivingTuesday provides an opportunity for us all to come together and support the causes in our communities that inspire us. Today, as millions around the world donate their time, talents, or a piece of their paychecks – or simply perform an act of kindness – let us be inspired by the spirit of #GivingTuesday and continue to be a force for positive change in our communities.” Rep. Will Hurd said: “The spirit of giving throughout the holiday season is always an important reminder that much more unites us than divides us. If we focus on these things as Americans, we can continue to be the greatest nation in the world. Giving Tuesday is the perfect example of how we come together to help those in need, and I’m proud to have worked across the aisle with Rep. Gabbard to make the designation of this important day official.” Background: #GivingTuesday, the first Tuesday following Thanksgiving, kickstarts the holiday giving season with a global day dedicated to charitable giving and volunteerism. #GivingTuesday was launched by the 92nd Street Y and the United Nations Foundation in 2012, and has since become a worldwide movement, harnessing the power of social media and the generosity of people around the world to bring about real change. In its first year, #GivingTuesday brought together more than 2,500 organizations in all 50 States, and it has continued to gain momentum every year since, with more than 35,000 partners in the United States and around the world.
11.20.2018	COTULLA— Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23), U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), and U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) visited the La Salle County Fire Rescue Department to announce a $1.6 million federal grant to increase staffing. This funding comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grants program, allowing La Salle County Fire Rescue to hire 15 new full-time frontline firefighters, strengthening the department’s response to fire and fire-related hazards and improving their overall level of preparedness. The SAFER grant program helps fire departments increase the number of frontline firefighters. The goal is for fire departments to increase their staffing and deployment capabilities and ultimately attain 24-hour staffing, thus assuring that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The SAFER grants support two specific activities: (1) the hiring of firefighters, and (2) recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters. SAFER is part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants and is under the Office of Grants and Training of the Department of Homeland Security. The SAFER Grant is a three-year cost sharing program: During the first and second year, the federal grant will cover 75 percent of the salary and benefits of the firefighters, while the city covers the other 25 percent; and, In the third year, the federal grant will cover 35 percent of the salary and benefits, and the city will cover the other 65 percent. These new positions will: Minimize current firefighters working excessive hours due to overtime; Decrease the probability of job injuries due to fatigue; Cover a competitive base salary; and Create robust benefits packages (including health, dental, vision, FICA, and life insurance) offered by the fire department to first-year firefighters for three years. Sen. Cornyn wrote a letter of support for La Salle County’s SAFER grant application, and joined Rep. Hurd in supporting an appropriations request to fund the SAFER grant program. Rep. Cuellar helped secure SAFER grant funding through his role on the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. “Every day, families in our communities rely on first responders to save lives and keep us safe. The folks in La Salle County are no different,” said Hurd. “The brave firefighters in La Salle County put their lives on the line each day to keep South Texans safe, and this funding will allow them to expand their efforts. Dangerous and demanding jobs require all hands on deck and I remain committed to ensuring that communities across TX23 have the resources they need to keep us safe.” “Firefighters are on the front lines of keeping our communities safe, and they deserve every resource possible at their disposal,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I applaud area leaders for their work to obtain this grant, and I’m grateful to the Trump Administration for supporting La Salle County Fire Rescue.” “I am pleased to announce that the La Salle Fire Rescue will receive $1.6 million in SAFER Grant funding that will be used to recruit new firefighters and enhance the department’s efforts,” said Rep. Cuellar. “La Salle Fire Rescue is among our nation’s finest first responders. These are brave men and women are trained professionals who deserve adequate assistance in their hiring and recruitment processes. This funding will have a significant impact on our community and help keep our residents protected from fire-related emergencies. I would like to thank Senator Cornyn and Representative Hurd for their support on this matter. I additionally thank La Salle County Fire Chief Don Smith and La Salle County’s Chief Executive Officer Judge Joel Rodriguez for their help with bringing this crucial funding to the area.” To read more on the Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the following: https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
11.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd received the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on his votes in the 115th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. “Manufacturing impacts almost every aspect of our lives, from how we treat illnesses to the cars we drive. These businesses are innovators that push this nation forward and it is critical that we keep unnecessary government regulations out of the way so that we can continue to expand opportunity,” said Hurd. “I am proud to receive the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award today and will continue do all I can to create policies with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that expand opportunities for South and West Texans.” “In Texas and across America, manufacturers are creating jobs, investing in communities and raising wages. That’s a direct result of Rep. Hurd’s support for policies that have strengthened manufacturing and created opportunities for America’s manufacturing workers,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Hurd who understand manufacturing’s critical contributions to our economy and are working actively to advance the manufacturing agenda.” Key votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here.
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) along with U.S. Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue urging the USDA to assist with administrative and logistical costs associated with excess food donations to food banks. The issue of food banks not having the resources to fully utilize increased donations was presented to Cornyn and Hurd while volunteering at the El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank in early October. “More than four million fellow Texans do not know where their next meal will come from and food banks play a critical role in providing nutritious meals across South and West Texas, especially in rural areas. We must make sure that all the food donated to food banks can be processed and allocated effectively so that these children, families and seniors do not go without,” said Hurd. “I appreciate the El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank, which serves over 90,000 families across three counties of the 23rd District of Texas for bringing this issue to my attention, and I will continue to do all that I can to better the lives of South and West Texans.” Full text of the letter can be found here.
10.29.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX – Today, the San Antonio River Authority (SARA) hosted U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) and House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Michael K. Simpson (ID-02) at San Antonio’s Mission Reach Restoration Project on the fifth anniversary of construction completion. Chairman Simpson was recognized for his instrumental role in helping Rep. Hurd and the San Antonio delegation to secure federal reimbursement for the Bexar County Mission Reach Project with interactive educational signage. “Over the last few years, we’ve watched Mission Reach produce tremendous cultural and economic gains, not just for the Southside – but for all of San Antonio – by connecting all five UNESCO-recognized Spanish Missions with hike and bike trails, and attracting millions in private-sector development,” said Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park. “Chairman Simpson has allowed San Antonio to secure reimbursement year after year for Mission Reach, and I am glad to show him firsthand today the San Antonio River Authority’s transformative ecological, cultural and economic improvements for our city.” “Congressman Will Hurd has long been an advocate for the San Antonio River Authority and for projects in Texas,” said Chairman Simpson. “I’m pleased to be here at Will’s request to see first-hand the San Antonio Mission Reach Improvement Project. Congressman Hurd’s leadership is evident in the success of this urban ecosystem restoration project and San Antonio is lucky to have such great representation.” Due to Rep. Hurd’s continued advocacy with Chairman Simpson, $25 million from a FY 2019 appropriations package is expected to be designated for Mission Reach reimbursement in San Antonio, a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County, and reimbursement allows the County to complete additional projects that benefit the community, such as San Pedro Creek Culture Park. To date, Mission Reach has been allocated a total of $30.8 million in reimbursement. Once the additional FY 19 funding is designated by the USACE, the project will have received a total of over $55 million in reimbursement, leaving only $5.5 million outsanding.
10.26.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX - Today, Congressmen Will Hurd (TX-23) Henry Cuellar (TX-28) attended an event at Mitchell Lake, where they were recognized by the San Antonio Water System (SAWS) for their efforts in helping secure $1.5 million in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) FY18 Work Plan to initiate a study on the restoration of the lake. This funding will be used to initiate the restoration of the lake’s ecosystem and surrounding habitat, eventually providing San Antonio residents with health, recreational, and economic benefits. Congressmen Hurd and Cuellar, along with the help of Congressman Castro, Energy & Water Appropriations Chairman Mike Simpson (ID-02), and Ranking Member Kaptur (OH-09), worked to secure funding and language for the study in the Appropriations Committee over the last few years. In FY17 and FY18, they helped secure $8 million for Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration, which funds the restoration of Mitchell Lake and similar projects. In FY19, they helped secure $12 million, a $4 million increase from previous years. The study’s full cost is $3 million; half is federally funded, and the other half will come from a non-federal sponsor such as SAWS. Records of the lake exist dating back to the 1600s, telling us about the original state of the lake and area. Mitchell Lake was one of San Antonio’s first centralized wastewater treatment plants, historically used as a receiving water body for storing raw or partially treated sewage. The treatment plant is a legacy site that was transferred to SAWS when the current entity was created in 1991. The lake attracts thousands of visitors each year, such as students, bird watchers, and nature enthusiasts. It receives more than 9,000 visitors and over 100 birdwatching tours every year. “I would like to thank Congressmen Hurd and Castro, Chairman Mike Simpson, and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur for their leadership on this issue,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is an important first step in studying the area to ensure that water quality in the lake during rain events does not impact the ability of SAWS to maintain it as the environmental and economic resource that it is today. I look forward to seeing the progress of this restoration project and the benefits it will have for the greater Bexar community.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would also like to thank the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for prioritizing this project, and the San Antonio Water System for taking a lead on this issue.” Congressman Hurd said, “The hundreds of bird and plant species thriving on site at Mitchell Lake’s Audubon Center have proven to provide impressive economic, environmental and health benefits to the surrounding community. I am proud to have worked with SAWS, USACE and the Audubon Texas Conservation leadership to secure funding for Mitchell Lake’s continued improvements so that students and bird enthusiasts can enjoy this unique migratory bird sanctuary for years to come. It truly is a treasure in my district that all San Antonians should enjoy.” “We would like to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his continued leadership in securing funding for Mitchell Lake. He has continually stepped up for our community, finding solutions to difficult issues in San Antonio,” said Robert R. Puente, SAWS President/CEO. “This funding will be crucial in restoring the surrounding area and transforming our local aquatic ecosystems.” Mitchell Lake is positioned on a natural migratory bird route and serves as a resting point for tens of thousands of birds each year. Bird watchers come from all over the world to see the unique variety of birds that visit there. This project is designed to improve the surrounding habitat around the lake, creating a more economically friendly environment for a variety of animal species. This restoration project will also increase visitors to the lake, by creating trails with hiking and biking paths for people in Bexar County. To read more about Mitchell Lake, please click here. To read the language from FY17, FY18 and FY19 click here.
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined Reps. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Leonard Lance (NJ-07) and David McKinley (WV-01) to introduce a bipartisan bill to ensure the continued success of libraries and museums across the nation. The Museum and Library Services Act (H.R. 6988) renews federal museum and library grant funding programs administered by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, of which Texas public libraries receive nearly $11 million in federal assistance each year. Similar bipartisan legislation was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Susan Collins (R-ME). “Our public libraries, especially in rural areas, go far beyond simply providing books. They serve as the primary provider of literacy programming, technology training and job seeking assistance in many communities I represent across South and West Texas,” said Hurd, who represents more than one hundred public libraries, college libraries and school districts in the 23rd District of Texas. “The grant funding authorized through this bill directly serves libraries across our state and is vital for their continued success. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill to ensure South and West Texans can continue to access quality educational resources.” “Libraries are centers of community life, providing opportunities for millions of Texans to discover their passion, and pursue education and career goals. On behalf of the Texas Library Association’s more than 6,000 members, we’d like to thank Representative Hurd and Senator Reed for supporting our libraries, and for their leadership on the reauthorization of the Museum and Library Services Act,” said Dana Braccia, Executive Director of the Texas Library Association. “We thank Representative Hurd and Senator Reed for their leadership in support of the important work of the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the thousands of libraries across the United States,” said Mark Smith, Librarian and Director of the Texas State Library and Archives Commission. “The Museum and Library Services Act will help state library agencies like ours in all states and territories continue to bring excellent library services to all communities. “Libraries and museums ensure access to information for millions of adults and children across the country, and I am thrilled that we have the opportunity to promote their growth, expand their services, and safeguard these critical institutions for generations to come,” said Rep. Grijalva. “I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues to ensure libraries and museums have the necessary resources to modernize their services and solidify their role as the technological hubs of communities across the country.” “Libraries and museums are anchor institutions for their communities, and we need to do all we can to support them in their mission. The Museum and Library Services Act represents our national commitment to ensuring these institutions are funded, staffed, and accessible to all. Through a relatively modest federal investment, this law helps build capacity to support and expand access to library and museum services at the state and local level. It will help fully leverage the role of libraries and museums in supporting the learning, educational, and workforce development needs of Americans nationwide,” said Senator Reed. “Libraries and museums enrich our communities, engage Americans of all ages in continued learning, increase economic opportunities, and sustain our values and cultures. The Museum and Library Services Act will help to strengthen the already amazing libraries and museums across Alaska,” said Senator Murkowski. “As a cosponsor of the Senate version of this bill, I commend Representative Hurd for his efforts to help diverse libraries and museums advance and to further enable the professionals and volunteers who dedicate their energies to these institutions.” “From offering job search resources and free Internet access to exposing children and families to literary and educational experiences, libraries and museums serve vital roles in our communities,” said Senator Collins. “The Museum and Library Services Act would bolster our commitment to supporting these institutions that enrich our communities. I urge my colleagues to join this effort to improve and update programs that help libraries and museums across Maine and the United States.”
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – This week U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) voted to support Tax Reform 2.0, composed of three bills that help provide certainty for families, workers and small businesses across South and West Texas, including: The Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018 (H.R. 6760), to make permanent the individual and small business tax cuts from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which have resulted in an average increase of $2,043 in savings per family of four in the 23rd District of Texas; The American Innovation Act of 2018 (H.R. 6756), to allow small businesses and start-ups to write off more of their initial start-up costs; and, The Family Savings Act of 2018 (H.R. 6757), to empower local businesses to provide retirement plans for employees and families to start saving earlier. Proud to make these historic tax cuts permanent, Hurd released the following statement: “After hosting 32 town halls throughout my district last week, it’s clear that tax reform is creating more jobs, bigger paychecks, increased investment, historic small business optimism and increased economic security for the families that I represent. I am proud to make these tax cuts permanent so South and West Texans can continue to prosper for generations to come.” Family and business-friendly provisions that will be secured with Tax Reform 2.0 include: Lower tax rates; A doubled Child Tax Credit that is available to many more families; The first ever Paid Family Leave Tax Credit; Elimination of the Alternative Minimum Tax for nearly 96 percent of those who paid it last year; Doubled exemption from the Death Tax; The first ever 20 percent deduction for pass-through business income for small businesses; and, A simpler, postcard-style filing system that is estimated to translate into a $3.1 to $5.4 billion reduction in compliance costs for workers and families. Prior to Tax Reform 2.0, Rep. Hurd co-sponsored similar legislation that would make permanent the individual and small business tax cuts, along with a narrower bill to make permanent the expanded child tax credit, which doubled from $1,000 to $2,000 with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bipartisan legislation to streamline bureaucratic inefficiencies that have impacted safety and fair compensation for our nation’s Border Patrol agents. The Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Amendment Act of 2018, cosponsored by Border and Maritime Subcommittee Chair Martha McSally (AZ-02) and Ranking Member Filemón Vela (TX-34), addresses critical pay and schedule issues impeding the ability of Customs and Border Protection to recruit and retain quality agents. The bill has been endorsed by the Border Patrol Union which represents 15,000 CBP officers across the country. “Our most important border security resources are the brave men and women of our border patrol and they should be properly compensated for the highly dangerous and demanding jobs they perform. These agents and their families deserve nothing short of certainty,” said Hurd, whose district includes more than 820 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “I thank my colleagues for coming together in a bipartisan manner to support our Border Patrol today, and I will continue to stand tall in Congress for the folks who put their lives on the line each day to keep Americans safe.” “I want to thank Congressman Hurd again for all his hard work on this legislation. This is the second time that Congressman Hurd has worked with the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) to address challenges we have faced after Congress instituted a new pay system for Border Patrol Agents three years ago,” said National Border Patrol Council President Brandon Judd. “Washington needs common sense problem solvers and Congressman Hurd is that kind of Member of Congress who can work in bipartisan basis to get results in Washington.” “Border security requires us to recruit, train, equip, and retain border patrol agents as they protect our communities and country. After personally speaking with border patrol agents, I have heard their request for straightforward solutions to their compensation structure, and that’s why I was honored to lead the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Amendment Act with my friend and colleague Congressman Will Hurd,” said Chairwoman McSally. “As two of the nine members of Congress who represent southern border communities, we both fully understand the weight of responsibility we put on our agents. Our legislation streamlines the overtime payment process for the men and women protecting our border while also allowing due compensation for the high-risk jobs they perform. This fix will help increase retention of our experienced agents and secure our border.”
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) proudly supported an appropriations package that funds the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services through Fiscal Year 2019. The bill includes funding for educational grants, the Meals on Wheels program, and a pay raise for men and women in the military, amongst others. After leaving the House Floor, Hurd released the following statement: “Today’s vote keeps several important promises to our troops, students and seniors alike,” said Hurd, who represents 29 counties across two time zones in South and West Texas. “I am proud to help get this bipartisan conference report over the finish line and will continue to do all that I can to deliver real results for South and West Texans.” Specific wins for programs at military bases in or near the 23rd District of Texas include: Continuing support for the Air Education and Training Command’s (AETC) efforts to mitigate flooding impacts on facilities, equipment and operations at Laughlin Air Force Base; and, Providing $10 million for military dental research and $125 million for traumatic brain injury research at the Joint Center of Excellence for Battlefield Health and Trauma at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. This bipartisan conference report also includes funding for Department of Defense programs that Rep. Hurd supported earlier this year, including: Providing our troops with a 2.6% pay raise, their largest pay raise in 9 years; Ensuring critical funding for the Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism efforts; Replenishing our aircraft, tanks and ships; Investing in research and development for new defense systems and technologies to ensure our warfighters are better prepared, and better supported than our adversaries; Caring for our troops and their families by funding the Defense Health Program, which includes cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response; and, Streamlining the bureaucracy at the Pentagon to ensure effective operations and efficient spending of taxpayer dollars. Additionally, the package funds several important public health, safety and education measures, such as: Providing critical funding for the Meals on Wheels program that feeds approximately 100,000 Texas seniors daily; Helping today’s students get ahead by increasing funding for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) along with the GEAR UP grant program, TRIO and career, technical and adult education programs; Boosting funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in support of critical research into Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, antibiotic-resistant bacteria and opioids; Creating grant funding opportunities for Extramural Research Facility Funding through NIH which presents a new funding opportunity for Texas Biomedical Research Institute’s critical research; Supporting a 21st century workforce though job training for both civilians and our veterans; and, Increasing funding for school safety activities including mental health programs in schools.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, House IT Subcommittee Chair Will Hurd (TX-23) and Ranking Member Robin Kelly (IL-02) furthered their efforts to modernize our federal government by introducing a bipartisan bill to reauthorize, rename, codify and elevate the role of the Federal CIO. The Federal CIO Authorization Act of 2018 creates a clearer IT reporting structure within the Administration by: Reauthorizing and renaming the Office of E-Government as the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO); Elevating the Federal CIO’s role as a Presidential appointee who directly reports to Office of Management and Budget Director; Codifying the Federal Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) as a Presidential appointee reporting the Federal CIO; and, Directing the Federal CIO to submit a proposal to Congress for consolidating and streamlining IT across federal agencies. “No entity can operate securely and efficiently without a CIO in the year 2018, including the federal government,” said Hurd, a computer science major, cybersecurity entrepreneur and tireless advocate for IT modernization in Congress. “This bill does more than just rename an office. It makes a clear statement that the Federal CIO is in charge of coordinating IT policy across the government in order to ensure that our agencies are able to provide better, faster and more cost-efficient services for the American people.” “Reauthorizing and codifying the roles of the Federal CIO and CISO will help streamline government IT processes and advance modernization efforts to bring government into the 21st century. I am proud to join Chairman Hurd in introducing this commonsense, bipartisan legislation to increase government effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness," said Rep. Kelly.
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology Chairman Will Hurd (TX-23) and Ranking Member Robin Kelly (IL-02) released awhite paper on artificial intelligence (AI). The paper presents lessons learned from the Subcommittee’s oversight and hearings on AI and sets forth key recommendations for moving forward. Full text of the white paper can be foundhere. Background Beginning in February of 2018, the Subcommittee on Information Technology held a series of hearings on artificial intelligence (AI). In connectionwith those hearings, Committee staff met with leading experts from academia, industry, and government, and reviewed multiple reports on the subject. Findings and Recommendations While the Subcommittee’s work examined a number of challenges facing AI, the paper specifically focuses on the following four issue areas, and provides concrete recommendations for addressing each: Workforce The paper details how AI advancement in the short-term could lead to the loss of jobs due to AI-driven automation. To address this issue, the paper recommends federal, state, and local agencies “engage more with stakeholders on the development of effective strategies for improving the education, training, and reskilling of American workers to be more competitive in an AI-driven economy.” The federal government is also encouraged to “lead by example by investing more in education and training programs that would allow for its current and future workforce to gain the necessary AI skills.” Privacy The paper finds AI technologies rely heavily on computer algorithms that often require vast amounts of personal data and raise legitimate privacy concerns. To address this challenge, the paper recommends federal agencies “review federal privacy laws, regulations, and judicial decisions to determine how they may already apply to AI products within their jurisdiction, and – where necessary – update existing regulations to account for the addition of AI.” Biases The paper describes how AI systems are increasingly being used to make consequential decisions about people and the harm that can occur when AI systems rely on biased data sets. To better account for this problem, the paper recommends that when federal, state, and local agencies use AI-type systems to make decisions about people, these agencies “should ensure the algorithms supporting these systems are accountable and inspectable.” Malicious Use of AI: The paper highlights how AI’s computing power increases the risks of cyberattacks that are even more likely to exploit vulnerabilities that exist on the computer networks of public and private sector entities. The paper recommends the government address this challenge by taking more active steps to “consider the ways in which [AI] could be used to harm individuals and society, and prepare for how to mitigate these harms.”
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) voted with his colleagues on both sides of the political aisle today to support funding for military construction, veterans’ affairs, and energy and water related projects for the Fiscal Year 2019 (FY2019). This conference version of the funding package includes similar wins from the House version of the package which Rep. Hurd supported in June, including: Ensuring over seven million veterans receive medical care during FY2019, by including VA medical care funding of $72.3 billion, including $270 million for rural veterans’ health initiatives, $8.6 billion for mental health care services, and $206 million for suicide prevention research; Including $1.1 billion to modernize the VA’s electronic health record system to provide seamless care to veterans as they transition from military service; Streamlining current VA resources so that the VA can resolve claims for the more than 450,000 veterans who are waiting for the compensation; and, Providing $10.3 billion, an increase of $241 million above FY18 levels, for construction of military facilities, including military family housing, medical facilities, facilities to support troop readiness and safety, and infrastructure upgrades needed for deterrence operations and anti-terrorism efforts. Also included in this package, due to Rep. Hurd’s continued advocacy and work with local leaders, is $25 million expected to be designated for Mission Reach reimbursement in San Antonio, a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County, and reimbursement will allow the County to complete additional projects that benefit the community, such as San Pedro Creek Culture Park. With this expected $25 million, Mission Reach has been allocated a total of $41.2 million in reimbursement since Rep. Hurd has been in Congress. This bill also ensures that USACE prioritizes additional resources into their new start projects, which San Antonio’s Mitchell Lake falls under, so that students and bird enthusiasts can continue enjoying this unique migratory bird sanctuary for years to come. Rep. Hurd also has consistently expressed the urgency for energy innovation initiatives that will create more jobs in Texas, a new paradigm for efficient power cycle applications and natural gas development that is safer, more efficient and environmentally sustainable. As a result of Hurd’s advocacy, the following was included in the package: $16.7 million for the Supercritical Transformational Electric Power (STEP) Project, charged with improving the performance and efficiency of existing and new electric power plants, ultimately lowering energy consumption and emissions. “This important funding package is critical to providing our veterans with the resources and care they’ve rightfully earned. I am also proud to secure funding for Mission Reach each year so that San Antonio River Authority can continue their transformative ecological, cultural and economic improvements for our city,” said Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park. “I am glad to help get this bill over the finish line and will continue to work with my colleagues across the political aisle to deliver real results for the good folks of the 23rd District of Texas.”
09.08.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) hosted an anti-bullying panel discussion in San Antonio to raise awareness of bullying and cyber-bullying abuse and to educate the community on prevention resources and best practices. Participants included MMA Fighter Justin Wren, founder of Fight for the Forgotten; Maurine Molak, mother of late David Molak and co-founder of David’s Legacy Foundation; D6 City Councilman Greg Brockhouse; TJ Mayes, Chief of Staff to Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff; SAPD Deputy Policy Chief Gus Guzman; and Sandy Detamore, owner of Drama Kids International. Participants discussed their own personal bullying experiences, how different levels of government are working to prevent or mediate bullying, areas for collaboration, and the best ways for concerned residents to engage elected officials. The event was a continuation of Rep. Hurd’s ongoing anti-bullying advocacy and work in Congress. The full conversation was livestreamed and can be watched HERE. “Ensuring an environment of kindness and respect is critical to the health and safety of students and our communities,” said Hurd. “We are living in time of deteriorating civility which jeopardizes the competition of ideas and the learning environment for our children. Everyone has a role to play in preventing bullying at all levels, and as a community, we must do better. I’m glad we could get local leaders together today to start a continued dialogue about how we can prevent bullying.” “Youth and teen addiction, depression, suicide, and school shootings are all on the rise. That's why the issue of Bullying Prevention really should be at the forefront of our minds and taken in to serious discussion,” said Justin Wren, MMA Fighter and founder of Fight for the Forgotten. “Our youth need to know there are other options and they need to be empowered with that knowledge. We must take a stand against these issues and I'm humbled to be able to stand beside and speak out against Bullying alongside Congressman Hurd and especially Maurine Molak as she honors the memory of her son David. As someone who grew up being relentlessly bullied in my formative years, I'm humbled, honored, and excited to share my story and to be part of the Bullying Prevention Summit hosted by Congressman Will Hurd.” “We are grateful to Rep. Hurd for standing against cyberbullying with David's Legacy Foundation through the Bullying Prevention Summit,” said Maurine Molak, co-founder of David’s Legacy Foundation. "Our organization aims to end the cyber-assisted bullying of minors and legislators like Will Hurd are vital to helping spread our message: that words can wound and online bullying has serious consequences in the state of Texas." "Drama Kids International is proud to be a part of Rep. Will Hurd’s anti-bullying campaign this year,” said Sandy Detamore, owner of Drama Kids International. “We strive to help students and parents understand that with each choice we make, whether it’s with an expression or a sentence, we can either make others feel valued or feel bullied. As Theodore Roosevelt said, ‘Knowing what’s right doesn’t mean much unless you do what’s right.’ Bullying is not an accident! It’s a choice, and we help students make the right choice!”
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The United States International Trade Commission (USITC) has reversed recent import tariffs on uncoated groundwood paper from Canada, after rejecting the Commerce Department’s argument that Canadian newsprint prices are harmful to the United States newsprint industry. The announcement comes as welcome news to newspapers across TX23 who have seen printing costs skyrocket since the tariffs were implemented. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who urged the Secretary of Commerce and U.S. Trade Representative to reverse the tariffs in July, appreciated the victory. “Thousands of my constituents who are still without adequate internet access, especially in rural counties, rely on local papers as a daily source of news. Several of these papers that have been family owned and operated for multiple generations have seen costs rise as much as 20 percent and had to cut production for residents as a result. Tariffs that hurt locally-owned businesses and limit access to information have no place in Texas and I am pleased with the USITC’s decision to put an end to this,” said Hurd. “I am particularly grateful for the local papers in my district who resoundingly brought this issue to my attention so I could advocate on their behalf. My office is here, we are listening and we won’t stop fighting for you.”
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following his August visit to the Northern Triangle, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) today met with Salvadoran Ambassador to the U.S. Claudia Canjura to continue discussing shared challenges and identify areas for collaboration regarding mass migration, border security, human trafficking, violence and transnational crime. After his meeting, Rep. Hurd released the following statement: “The crisis along our nation’s Southern border will only continue unless we actively work with our allies in Central America to find shared solutions to combat human trafficking, drug smuggling and illegal immigration,” said Hurd, who represents more of the U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “Our current challenges along the border not only jeopardize our national security, but also impact the daily lives of thousands of good folks I represent in the 23rd District of Texas. I appreciate Ambassador Canjura for working with me to determine root causes and identify shared solutions as I continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to secure our borders with smart solutions.”
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) has received the “Hero of Main Street” award by the National Retail Federation for consistently supporting public policy priorities important to the retail industry and its millions of small businesses. “99.8 percent of businesses in the state of Texas are small businesses, and they employ roughly 4.6 million hardworking Texans,” said Hurd. “These businesses are the lifeblood of our economy and the backbone of local communities across the 23rd District of Texas. I am honored to receive the “Hero of Main Street” award and will continue to fight for policy solutions and regulatory reform that fosters innovation, entrepreneurship and job growth for the folks who contribute so much to our state and nation.” “Retailers and consumers are feeling good about the state of the U.S. economy, and a big part of that is the result of lawmakers who have made economic growth and job creation a top priority,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “As a Hero of Main Street, Rep. Hurd truly understands that the decisions made in Washington have a real impact on local businesses and communities across the country.” The overwhelming majority of retailers are small businesses, with more than 98 percent of all retail companies employing fewer than 50 people. The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013, and eligibility is based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance retailers’ priorities. Recipients have supported policies that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. The National Retail Federation is the world’s largest retail trade association. Based in Washington, D.C., NRF represents discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs — 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy.
08.29.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX – U.S. Representative Will Hurd traveled to Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala this week on official business organized by the House Intelligence Committee. Hurd led the tour in order to evaluate root causes of some of our shared challenges including mass migration, border security, human trafficking, violence and transnational crime, as well as, identify areas for collaboration. While in country, Rep. Hurd met with Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández and the Honduran Migration Task Force, with Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales, and with the Transnational Crime Investigative Unit and Transnational Anti-Gang Unit in El Salvador, in addition to other meetings. He also visited repatriation centers in Honduras and Guatemala, and met with various humanitarian organizations in the three countries. “In recent years, immigration from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala rose by 25% due to rampant crime, violence and poverty. Without the help of our partners in Central America, we will not solve our current challenges along the border which impact the daily lives of thousands of constituents in my district,” said Hurd whose district includes roughly 820 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border. “I went to the Northern Triangle to identify root causes and areas we can collaborate to combat transnational gangs, human trafficking and illegal immigration. My fight to secure our borders with smart solutions is far from over.” PICTURES BELOW
08.27.2018	LA SALLE COUNTY, TX – This week, the La Salle County Fire Department was awarded more than $1.6 million in grant funding through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. This funding will allow for the hiring and recruiting of additional firefighters for the county. Following this great news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) released the following statement: “Every day, families in our communities rely on first responders to save lives and keep us safe. The folks in La Salle County are no different,” said Hurd. “The brave firefighters in La Salle County put their lives on the line each day to keep South Texans safe, and this funding will allow them to expand their efforts. Dangerous and demanding jobs require all hands on deck and I remain committed to ensuring that communities across TX23 have the resources they need to keep us safe.”
08.27.2018	DEL RIO, TX – The Del Rio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce was recognized by the Texas Association of Mexican American Chambers of Commerce as the 2018 Small Chamber of the Year. Following this great news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “The Del Rio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce has served as a pillar of Val Verde County since 2006 and is already winning statewide awards for tremendous small business advocacy,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents Del Rio. “The Chamber has been instrumental in fostering local Del Rio businesses which are the backbone of the community, and this award is a well-deserved testament to the positive economic impact that their efforts have had across South Texas. Congratulations.”
08.27.2018	DEL RIO, TX – This week, the Val Verde County Commissioners Court officially approved a ride service to transport local veterans to their weekly appointments at VA facilities in San Antonio and Kerrville, at no cost to the veterans. Following this exciting news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) issued the following statement: “Access to quality care can be a real problem for many veterans I represent across rural South and West Texas, who cannot easily access bigger hospital facilities in San Antonio and Kerrville,” said Hurd, who represents 45,000 veterans across 29 counties in the 23rd District of Texas. “We must keep the promises we made to the individuals who fought valiantly to keep us safe. I thank the Val Verde County Commissioners Court for generously providing the funding for this important project and the Val Verde County Veterans Service Office for implementing this service that will serve thousands of veterans and their families. I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure our nation’s heroes have access to the quality care they have earned.” The ride service transports veterans from the Val Verde County Courthouse parking lot in Del Rio to the Audie Murphy VA Hospital in San Antonio every Tuesday at 6am and to the Kerrville VA Medical Center every Thursday at 5am. Veterans must be at the pickup location at least 15 minutes prior to departure. You can learn more about this service and be placed on the pickup schedule by calling the Val Verde County Veterans Service Office at (830) 774-7548.
08.15.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX – Following years of security, accessibility and operational challenges, today, the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) announced a design build contract for the new San Antonio federal courthouse which will be built at the corner of Santa Rosa Avenue and Nueva Street. Rep. Hurd, who was instrumental in securing funding and worked to include nearly $948M for Federal Courthouse Construction into the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus bill, released the following statement: “After working closely with local officials and a bipartisan cohort of my colleagues in Congress to secure this funding, including Senator John Cornyn and Rep. Henry Cuellar, I’m proud to see this project progressing. San Antonians deserve a secure facility that prioritizes the health and physical safety of employees and civilians, not a 1960’s movie theatre that is poorly suited for its current use. Not only will a new secure facility alleviate countless concerns, it will be a beacon of downtown San Antonio’s renaissance.” The facility will house the U.S. District Courts for the Western District of Texas, U.S. Court of Appeals, U.S. Clerk of the Court, U.S. Magistrate Courts, U.S. Marshals, U.S. Attorneys, U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services, Federal Public Defender and GSA. Construction of the new courthouse is set to begin in the Spring of 2019.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met with Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States Emanuel Espina. They affirmed the importance of U.S.-Guatemala bilateral cooperation and discussed a range of issues, including Guatemala’s efforts to strengthen border security, its growing counternarcotic activities and China’s attempts to increase its influence in Central America. They also addressed the importance of greater coordination and information sharing to address the flow of Central Americans migrating to the US. “The Guatemalans have been a key partner of the United States in combating the challenges of human trafficking, drug smuggling and illegal immigration on our southern border,” said Hurd. “These are pressing problems in our backyard, and the United States needs to focus more time and effort on working with our allies in the Western Hemisphere, like Guatemala, on shared solutions. I look forward to continued collaboration between the United States and Guatemala as we progress on addressing these common challenges.”
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) joined Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Energy and Water Development Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson (ID-02) and Ranking Member Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) to introduce the Restore Our Parks & Public Lands Act to jump start overdue maintenance projects in our national parks by directing 50% of unallocated federal mineral revenues to a newly established restoration fund. This bipartisan consensus proposal would provide investments that would go toward reducing the nearly $12 billion backlog the National Park Service (NPS) faces to repair roads, visitor facilities, trails, and other park structures. Similar legislation was previously introduced by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH), Mark Warner (D-VA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Angus King (I-ME) in the Senate. “National parks are a part of the American experience and the eight I represent, including Big Bend and the San Antonio Missions, provide immeasurable cultural, environmental and economic benefits. We have a responsibility as a nation to care for these natural treasures, yet in 2017 alone, national parks in Texas had a backlog of over $167 million in deferred maintenance – nearly 75 percent of projects are in the 23rd District of Texas,” said Hurd. “This bill provides more flexible financing options and revenue sources to jump start these overdue maintenance projects, so that our parks can remain beautiful and accessible for future generations of park goers to enjoy. I am thankful to Chairman Bishop, Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Grijalva for our continued conversations to ensure we work together, in a bipartisan manner, to fix this problem.” “From San Antonio Missions National Historical Park to Big Bend National Park, our National Park Service protects some of our most historically, culturally and naturally significant places. Yet, due to years of inconsistent funding, our parks face nearly $12 billion in needed repairs from failing water systems to deteriorated trails and crumbling visitor centers. NPCA commends national park champions like Congressman Hurd, for supporting dedicated funding for our parks. With the Restore our Parks and Public Lands Act, Congress is one step closer to ensuring that our parks can continue to provide safe conditions for visitors, while also protecting the resources that help tell our nation’s history.” said Theresa Pierno, President and CEO for National Parks Conservation Association. “The effort to find a compromise to fix our parks is not only bipartisan; now it is also bicameral,” said Marcia Argust, who directs The Pew Charitable Trusts’ restore America’s parks campaign. “Pew applauds Representative Rob Bishop and his colleagues for collaborating on this proposal, which combines the best of the parks deferred-maintenance bills and provides significant and consistent funding to address the backlog.” Last year, Texas National Parks had a backlog of $167,667,569 in deferred maintenance projects, including the following amounts at parks located in the 23rd District of Texas: $100,421,335 at Big Bend National Park; $6,937,728 at San Antonio Missions National Historical Park; $7,031,046 at Amistad National Recreational Area; $2,810,717 at Fort Davis National Historic Site; $6,411,208 at Guadalupe Mountains National Park. This bill represents the merging of several approaches to address this important issue. Last year, Rep. Hurd introduced similar bipartisan legislation, the National Park Service Legacy Act, which was critical in bringing together stakeholders from both parties and chambers to ultimately find a solution that can be passed by Congress and signed into law.
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) supported a Minibus Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19) that includes several wins for the 23rd District of Texas, including: Ensuring our National Parks can remain natural treasures for years to come by increasing funding by $53 million for our National Park Service, $50 million for park operations, and a needed $175 million increase to address longstanding deferred maintenance needs; Helping our first responders prevent and combat wildfires by funding wildland firefighting and prevention programs at the full 10-year average for fire suppression costs, along with providing an additional $500 million for Forest Service suppression and $655 million for hazardous fuel management; Combatting drug trafficking by criminal organizations by including $285 million for the High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, which coordinates federal, state and local drug task forces to disrupt or dismantle drug trafficking organizations, and engages and provides support to state and federal prosecutors to convict individuals involved in these drug trafficking organizations; Expanding opportunity for our local small business owners to gain capital by providing funding for Small Business Administration (SBA) loan programs, including $30 billion in 7(a) and $7.5 billion in 504 small business loans, $12.7 million in veterans’ programs, and $19 million in Women’s Business Centers; and, Encouraging responsible use of taxpayer dollars through upgrading and improving our information technology systems across the federal government by directing $150 million to the Technology Modernization Fund, which I created, so that we can prevent cyberattacks, terrorism and intrusion. “Today’s vote secured funding to care for our parks and public lands, combat the 19 criminal organizations smuggling drugs across our U.S.-Mexico border, provide financial assistance for small business owners and bring our government IT into the 21st century,” said Hurd. “I am proud to help pass this bill out of the House today that delivers on several important promises for the good folks I represent in South and West Texas."
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23), who spent nearly a decade as an undercover officer in the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), was proud to support reauthorization of the intelligence community (IC) which includes the CIA and the fifteen other member agencies that perform intelligence activities to keep Americans safe. Hurd was proud to support this critical piece of national security legislation. This bill accomplishes the following: Authorizes funding for the intelligence community to continue to protect our nation for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019. Defends against foreign threats to elections by requiring the Director of National Intelligence to electronically publish an unclassified advisory report on foreign counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats to election campaigns for federal offices; Bolsters intelligence oversight by requiring the Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense to develop a framework to assess the numerous roles, missions and functions of the Defense Intelligence Agency; Improves retention and recruitment of personnel for Critical Cyber Missions by providing increased pay for certain employees with unique cyber skills; Protects Key Energy Infrastructure by creating an Infrastructure Security Center within the Department of Energy to coordinate intelligence on significant threats; Authorizes enhanced injury benefits to CIA employees injured overseas due to hostile acts or terrorist activities; and, Improves IC accountability to Congress by requiring the IC to provide reports on: Investigations of leaks of classified information; Security clearance processing timelines; The process for reviewing information about computer vulnerabilities for retention or potential release; and Russian influence campaigns directed at foreign elections “The men and women of our intelligence community serve shoulder to shoulder with our sailors, soldiers, airmen and marines, and have been responsible for many of the most important national security victories in American history. We must continue to support their operations and improve our intelligence collecting capabilities so that we can protect the homeland and keep Americans safe in the 21st century and beyond.”
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted with his colleagues in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19) Department of Defense Appropriations Act which funds the necessary resources for our armed forces to keep Americans safe, modernizes training and equipment, and gives our men and women in uniform their biggest pay raise in nine years. Additionally, this bipartisan funding package: Increases base funding for our military Provides critical funding for the Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism efforts; Replenishes our aircraft, tanks, and ships; Invests in research and development for new defense systems and technologies; Cares for our troops and their families by funding the Defense Health Program, which includes cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response; and, Streamlines the bureaucracy at the Pentagon to ensure well-run operations and efficient spending of taxpayer dollars. The FY19 Department of Defense Appropriations Act also provides wins for programs at military bases located in or near the 23rd District of Texas, including: Expresses continued support for the Air Education and Training Command’s (AETC) efforts to mitigate flooding impacts on facilities, equipment and operations at Laughlin Air Force Base; $10 million for military dental research and $125 million for traumatic brain injury research at the Join Center of Excellence for Battlefield Health and Trauma at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio; and, $175 million for the National Guard Youth Challenge Program, which helps at-risk kids complete high school at schools like the Texas Youth Challenge Academy in Sheffield, Texas. “Last year, we lost nearly four times as many service members in accidents and training incidents as we lost in combat. The brave men and women of our military are our country’s most valuable assets, and it is imperative that they have the equipment and training needed to defend our nation on the front lines against 21st Century global threats,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who served shoulder to shoulder with our men and women in uniform during his decade of service in the CIA. “Texas is the proud home of 15 military installations, and more than 160,000 active duty and reserve military members. By providing a well-deserved pay raise, investing in updated equipment and training, and rebuilding our military capabilities, this bipartisan defense funding package keeps promises we made to our men and women in uniform and makes sure they are prepared for any challenges that come their way.”
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met separately with El Salvador Ambassador to the U.S. Claudia Ivette Canjura de Centeno and Honduras Ambassador to the U.S. Marlon Tábora Muñoz to discuss the root causes of the current immigration crisis. The goal of both meetings was to explore ways to strengthen democratic institutions to build upon existing efforts to improve the security situation and access to economic opportunity in Central America. Rep. Hurd’s bipartisan Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act was also discussed as a vehicle to address many of these challenges through increased support to the region. “The crisis along the US border is not new and will continue until we properly address security challenges and the lack of economic opportunities in Central America which drives net migration to the U.S. The bipartisan USA Act that I introduced in January with Representative Pete Aguilar addresses these challenges by ensuring coordinated support to Central American countries so that they can strengthen the rule of law through professional, competent and neutral institutions,” said Hurd, who has been working to provide legislative solutions to immigration and border security challenges during his time in Congress. During their meeting, Ambassador Canjura reiterated the commitment of the government of El Salvador to continue with its efforts to guarantee assistance and protection of its citizens regardless of their immigration status. Ambassador Tabora from Honduras highlighted the USA Act as an example of legislation that tackles the root causes of migration accurately, and which recognizes that TPS holders are valued members of the American economy and their communities. In addition to smart border security and a permanent legislative fix for DACA recipients, the USA Act: Directs the President to designate a senior official to coordinate federal and international efforts to strengthen the rule of law and economic prosperity in Central America Allows the Millennium Challenge Corporation to fund concurrent compacts for purposes of regional economic integration or cross-border collaborations Requires the Department of State to submit a three-year strategy to secure international and regional support for the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle Rep. Hurd continues to proactively work with partners to develop thoughtful legislation that addresses the current immigration crisis, as well as, use his oversight role to ensure activities like intelligence sharing are happening in such a way that improve the security challenges faced by our allies in Central America.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted to support the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, commonly known as the Farm Bill, which provides our nation’s farmers and ranchers with certainty and stability to continue feeding America. Among other benefits, the Farm Bill: Strengthens the farm safety net by reauthorizing Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage options for the next five years Promotes the conservation of America’s working lands Protects crop insurance Cuts red tape and reforms burdensome regulations for farm production Invests in rural broadband Protects the health of the nation’s livestock sector Establishes a scholarship program to assist the next generation of farmers and ranchers Maintains the existing SNAP funding authorization Provides a $45 million annual increase to food banks, of which nearly half annually is devoted to the creation and maintenance of Farm-to-Food Bank programs, commonly known as ag surplus programs “Food security is national security and depends on strong agricultural policy that provides certainty and stability for the 3.75 million Texans employed by the agriculture sector,” said Hurd, who represents over 9,000 working farms and ranches across South and West Texas. “I am proud to support the Farm Bill and will continue to have the backs of the hardworking men and women who put clothes on our backs and food on our tables.”
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Prior to the House vote on the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2018, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “I have long advocated for securing our nation’s borders and providing a permanent legislative fix for DACA recipients, but this proposal does not accomplish either goal,” said Hurd, who represents more of the U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “Furthermore, I cannot support a bill that fails to effectively address family separations at the border, establishes a long and winding road for DACA recipients at the expense of existing visa programs and doubles down on an expensive and ineffective 4th century border security tool that takes private property away from hundreds of Texans. I’ve said time and time again that a long-term solution must be bipartisan, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle so that we can actually solve these problems once and for all."
06.15.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX – This week, San Antonio’s Mitchell Lake Audubon Center, a 600-acre bird paradise on the Southside, was allocated $1.5 million from the Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) Fiscal Year 2018 Work Plan for a study that will initiate the restoration of the lake’s ecosystem and surrounding habitat. Rep. Hurd, who has been working with appropriators since 2016 for the benefit of Mitchell Lake, was instrumental in securing the funds with USACE, and recently toured the site in February. “The hundreds of bird and plant species thriving on site have proven to provide impressive economic, environmental and health benefits to the surrounding community. I am proud to have worked with SAWS, USACE and the Audubon Texas Conservation leadership to secure funding for Mitchell Lake’s continued improvements so that students and bird enthusiasts can enjoy this unique migratory bird sanctuary for years to come. It truly is a treasure that all San Antonians should enjoy.” “Congressman Hurd has been a champion on ensuring that the value of Mitchell Lake and its surrounding areas are recognized and enhanced, particularly his leadership within Congress and with the Army Corps,” said Robert R. Puente, SAWS President/CEO. “Mitchell Lake is a critical element to the quality of life and future development of the Southside of San Antonio.” Mitchell Lake is positioned on a natural migratory bird route and serves as a resting point for tens of thousands of birds each year. Bird watchers come from all over the world to see the unique variety of birds that visit there. This project is designed to improve the surrounding habitat around the lake, creating a more economically friendly environment for a variety of animal species. This restoration project will also increase visitors to the lake, by creating trails with hiking and biking paths for people in Bexar County.
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, S. 2397, the Senate companion to U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s DHS Data Framework Act, was unanimously approved by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. In response to this great news, Hurd released the following statement: “It’s 2018. Our law enforcement should be able to get the right information to the right people at the right time, to keep our nation’s enemies on the run and off our shores. DHS personnel need to share information quickly without compromising our nation’s secrets, and that’s why my colleagues on both sides of the aisle unanimously approved the DHS Data Framework Act in the House,” said Hurd, who spent almost a decade as an undercover officer in the CIA and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. “I applaud Senator Maggie Hassan for introducing the DHS Data Framework Act in the Senate and her Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee colleagues for recognizing this initiative to keep Americans safe.” The DHS Data Framework Act codifies an effort at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop a data framework to incorporate all DHS component agency data related to homeland security, terrorist information, weapons of mass destruction, and national intelligence, into one system, thereby alleviating the current costly, cumbersome process of searching and vetting information against multiple databases with different log-ins, passwords, and legal restrictions.
06.12.2018	MARATHON, TX – Rep. Hurd is pleased to announce the North American Development Bank (NADB) and the Marathon Water Supply and Sewer Services Corporation have signed a US$1.55 million grant agreement to finance improvements to the town’s current sewer system. Funding for this project is through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF), which is administered by NADB. Under the current wastewater collection system (WWCS), collection infrastructure is available to 85% of residents, with service provided to 241 residential connections. Portions of the existing WWCS were constructed nearly 50 years ago and are prone to line breaks due to deterioration of the pipes. In some cases, raw sewage has flowed into homes and businesses, exposing the public to serious health risks. Approved by the NADB Board of Directors in November 2017, the wastewater infrastructure project in Marathon, Texas consists of replacing the main trunk line that conveys wastewater to the wastewater treatment plant, as well as decommissioning of a lift station and extending wastewater collection infrastructure. The project will eliminate exposure to untreated or inadequately treated wastewater due to sewage back-ups and spills. The project is estimated to cost US$1.55 million and will eliminate approximately 2,000 gallons per day of untreated or inadequately treated wastewater discharges. “The good folks in Marathon rely on a wastewater collection system that is old and unreliable, causing serious public health risks across their West Texas community. Preventing exposure to bacterial and viral pathogens transmitted through sewage is absolutely vital,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “This is why I fought to restore funding for the Border Water Infrastructure Program allowing these critical improvements to move forward, and I will continue to do everything in my power to protect the health and safety of South and West Texans.” “We are pleased to support Marathon’s much-needed wastewater infrastructure that will improve the health and well-being of its residents,” said Alex Hinojosa, NADB Managing Director. “The continued support of Congress is vital to funding the Border Water Infrastructure Program (BWIP), so I want to personally thank Congressman Hurd for his on-going efforts for this needed program and overall backing of NADB.” The project consists of replacing approximately 8,800 linear feet of the collector main from the First Street alleyway to the Marathon Wastewater Treatment Plant, reconnecting 46 existing services to the new trunk line, connecting nine (9) residences to the wastewater collection system, and decommissioning nine (9) septic systems and the lift station. Construction is expected to start in Fall 2018.
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last Friday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) voted with his colleagues on both sides of the political aisle to support funding for military construction, veterans’ affairs, and energy and water related projects for the Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19). This package does the following: Ensures over seven million veterans receive medical care during fiscal year 2019, by including VA medical care funding of $71.2 billion, including $270 million for rural veterans’ health initiatives, $8.6 billion for mental health care services, and $196 million for suicide prevention research Includes $1.2 billion to modernize the VA’s electronic health record system to provide seamless care to veterans as they transition from military service Streamlines current VA resources to allow the VA to resolve claims for more than 450,000 veterans who are waiting for the compensation they’ve earned Provides $10.3 billion, an increase of $241 million above FY18 levels, for construction of military facilities including military family housing, medical facilities, education facilities for troop readiness, Guard and Reserve facilities, a NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), and a new detention facility at Guantanamo Bay Due to Rep. Hurd’s continued advocacy and work with local leaders, the package includes $15 million for Mission Reach reimbursement in San Antonio, a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County, and reimbursement will allow the County to complete additional projects that benefit the community, such as San Pedro Creek Culture Park. Since Rep. Hurd has been in Congress, Mission Reach has been allocated $16.2 million in reimbursement. Under this bill, it is expected to receive an additional $15 million. This bill also ensures that USACE prioritizes additional resources into their new start projects, which San Antonio’s Mitchell Lake falls under, so that students and bird enthusiasts can continue enjoying this unique migratory bird sanctuary for years to come. Rep. Hurd also advocated for energy innovation initiatives that will result in additional jobs in Texas, create a new paradigm for efficient power cycle applications, and make natural gas development safer, more efficient and more environmentally sustainable. As a result of Hurd’s request, the following was included in the package: $16.7 million for the Supercritical Transformational Electric Power (STEP) Project, charged with improving the performance and efficiency of existing and new electric power plants, ultimately lowering energy consumption and emissions. “Today’s funding package furthers Congress’s efforts to streamline the federal bureaucracy and reduce wasteful spending, while providing our veterans with the resources and care they’ve rightfully earned. I am also proud to secure funding for Mission Reach each year so that San Antonio River Authority can continue their transformative ecological, cultural and economic improvements for our city,” said Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park. “I will continue to work with my colleagues across the political aisle to deliver real results for the good folks of the 23rd District of Texas.”
06.01.2018	EAGLE PASS, TX – This week, the City of Eagle Pass was awarded $200,000 from Texas Parks and Wildlife’s Recreational Trails grant program. This grant funding will be used to begin the City’s “Community Trails Network Project” to provide safe, accessible pathways from schools and parks across the community. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who wrote a letter of support for this endeavor, released the following statement: “The Community Trails Network Project will provide much more than just better connectivity for Eagle Pass families to travel safely from schools and parks across the City. Trails and greenways have proven to provide communities immense benefits including economic development, preservation of open space, and improved physical and mental health,” said Hurd. “I am proud to have worked with local officials and Texas Parks and Wildlife to secure funding to make this vision a reality.”
06.01.2018	SALT FLAT, TX – This week, the Guadalupe Ridge Trail, which begins in the 23rd District of Texas’s Guadalupe Mountains National Park and spans all the way to New Mexico, received the designation of National Recreation Trail by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Excited about this news, U.S. Representative Hurd, who wrote a letter of support to the National Park Service for this effort, issued the following statement: “Guadalupe Mountains National Park has been a West Texas staple for decades, boosting tourism and local economic opportunities by offering tours, educational activities and resources for visitors,” said Hurd, who tirelessly advocates for the eight National Parks and Historic Sites across the 23rd District of Texas. “The Guadalupe Ridge Trail winds through two national parks, a national forest and desert landscape, encompassing 100 miles of hiking and camping scenic wonders. This historic designation came just in time for National Trails Day on June 2nd and will allow the park to continue to forge partnerships across the Southwest.”
06.01.2018	DEL RIO, TX – Following U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s successful efforts last Congress to bring commercial flights to Del Rio, today a new flight from Del Rio International Airport (DRT) to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) has been announced. In response to the news, Hurd released the following statement: “With Laughlin Air Force Base, multiple Department of Homeland Security facilities, a growing international trade community, the third largest lake in the State of Texas, endless hiking trails and prehistoric cave art, Del Rio is a frequent destination for business and leisure travelers alike. Increasing connectivity to Del Rio saves residents countless hours of travel time while providing economic gains for the local community,” said Hurd. “I’m pleased to see the continued results of my bipartisan TSA Fairness Act, that helped reinstate commercial air service to Del Rio last year.”
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement to impose new steel and aluminum tariffs on our allies in Mexico, Canada and the European Union: “Initiating a trade war with our closest allies is a bad idea. Sound foreign policy does not include punishing our North American and European partners, while easing restrictions on a Chinese company that clearly violated U.S. sanctions. The result of arbitrary tariffs on commodities will be an increase to the costs of everything for middle class families, from the food on our tables to the fuel in our cars. As I’ve said before, we should be working with our allies instead of using an 18th century tool that has repeatedly failed in the past. I urge the Administration to reconsider this decision.”
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Representative Will Hurd supported the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes funding for our military and national defense. The NDAA passed the House this morning with overwhelmingly bipartisan support and ensures we are prepared to face modern threats by: Giving our men and women in uniform their biggest pay raise in nine years; Increasing the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Investing in critical missile defense and nuclear deterrents; Supporting the development of new military technologies; Providing increased funding for training for all branches and includes necessary upgrades to military aircraft to address the troubling rise in accidents; Updating and replacing outdated equipment and crumbling military buildings; and, Streamlining the Pentagon bureaucracy and buying practices that limit our military’s flexibility and impose a needless burden on taxpayers. The NDAA also provides funding for key projects at bases in and nearby the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, including: $92.3 million for the construction of a military training dormitory at Lackland AFB in San Antonio; Authorization for the Air Force to conduct a core sampling study along the proposed route of a wastewater treatment line at Joint Base San Antonio to determine if any hazardous substances are present in the soil; $24 million for supply support at Fort Bliss in El Paso; and, $10.2 million for an energy aerospace operations facility at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. “Our men and women in uniform sacrifice so much to keep Americans safe. We owe it to them to provide the best possible equipment, training and support to do their jobs safely and efficiently,” said Hurd, who served alongside many of these patriots during his deployments as an undercover officer in the CIA. “Not only does the NDAA take care of those who are in the fight day after day, it also sends a message to our friends and our foes that the United States has the most effective and powerful armed forces in the world and we are ready to defend ourselves against terrorists and nuclear threats.”
05.22.2018	SAN ANTONIO, TX – The City of San Antonio has been awarded $1.5 million by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency to address local needs in order to prevent, protect against, mitigate, and respond to acts of terrorism. Thrilled by the news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “San Antonio is one of the fastest-growing cities in our State and routinely hosts events that attract hundreds of thousands of visitors like Fiesta and the NCAA Final Four. It’s imperative that our local public safety officers have the level of equipment necessary for them to do their jobs and keep folks safe,” said Hurd. “After I invited FEMA leadership to attend Fiesta to see security operations firsthand, the FEMA officials left with a better understanding of the tremendous crowds we draw at home and the urgency for our police and fire departments to have updated resources. I am proud to have worked with FEMA and local officials to secure this increased funding for our Alamo City law enforcement.” "Congressman Hurd was instrumental in arranging FEMA Deputy Assistant Administrator Bridget Bean's crucial visit to San Antonio, which demonstrated the city's need for the grant,” said San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg. “We are grateful for the key role he played in the process."
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd introduced bipartisan legislation to improve the overtime payment process for our Customs and Border Patrol agents. H.R. 5896, the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Amendment Act of 2018, was introduced with Border and Maritime Subcommittee Chair Martha McSally (AZ-02) and Ranking Member Filemón Vela (TX-34) to streamline and amend the overtime payment process to allow these hardworking men and women the flexibility to be properly compensated for the dangerous jobs they perform. “The men and women of Border Patrol have highly demanding jobs and are our most important assets on the front line. We must take care of them and ensure that they are being compensated for the grueling hours they put in to secure our borders,” said Hurd, who represents more U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “These brave agents deserve certainty each time they receive their paychecks and I will continue to stand by the folks who put their lives on the line to keep Americans safe.” “I want to thank Congressman Hurd again for all his hard work on this legislation. This is the second time that Congressman Hurd has worked with the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) to address challenges we have faced after Congress instituted a new pay system for Border Patrol Agents three years ago,” said National Border Patrol Council President Brandon Judd. “Washington needs common sense problem solvers and Congressman Hurd is that kind of Member of Congress who can work in bipartisan basis to get results in Washington.” “Border Patrol agents are one of our most important border security resource. We simply cannot achieve situational awareness and operational control of our southwest border without them. While visiting the border, I’ve personally spoken with our Border Patrol agents and have heard their requests firsthand to make these straightforward fixes to their compensation structure, and that’s why I am leading this legislation with Rep. Hurd to fix this problem. We already have dangerous manpower shortages at the border, we cannot afford such high turnover as well. Fixing these compensation concerns will address one of the problems causing lack of retention of these highly qualified individuals. They put their lives on the line when they put their boots on the border—they deserve a pay raise, not a pay cut,” said Congresswoman McSally. “I am proud to sponsor this bill which provides for more reliable paychecks and schedules for Border Patrol agents,” said Rep. Vela. “These common sense reforms will allow our frontline agents to focus on their mission, including drug seizures, in a more efficient and effective manner.”
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Eagle Pass High School Senior Keanna Saucedo was named the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the 23rd District of Texas. Her winning artwork, a drawing titled “Beyond the Riverside,” depicts the natural landscape of the Rio Grande River in between her hometown of Eagle Pass and Piedras Negras, Mexico, and will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, DC for one year. Thrilled by the news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “I’m impressed by the creativity and talent of the dozens of young artists across TX-23’s 29 counties who entered this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Hurd. “Keanna’s drawing masterfully depicts not just the beautiful natural landscape of the Rio Grande River, but as the title ‘Beyond the Riverside’ suggests, the friendship between folks in Texas and Mexico along our Southern border. I’m glad my colleagues in Congress and the hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world who visit our nation’s Capitol will get to see this glimpse of TX-23 through Keanna’s art.”
05.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, a group of Republican lawmakers introduced a discharge petition to force a series of floor votes on four DACA, immigration and border security bills. If the petition, led by Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), receives 218 signatures, it will force a vote on H. Res. 774 that Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10) introduced in March, to allow Members to debate the issue on the House floor under the “queen of the hill” rule. According to the rule, whichever proposal receives the most votes and meets the mandatory majority-vote threshold would be adopted. “Since arriving in Congress, one of my top priorities has been to forge a compromise on immigration that delivers a fair, permanent solution for young immigrants brought to our country as children, while securing the border and strengthening our immigration laws,” Curbelo said. “Since the President's call for Congressional action on DACA and other immigration policies in September of last year, the House has done nothing. Congress should be motivated by courage – not inhibited by cowardice – in the pursuit of the legislative solutions the American people expect. Our proposal does not attempt to impose any specific bill, instead it empowers all Members of the House, including the Speaker, to craft a solution that can win majority support and be signed into law. For over 12 years, Members of both parties have used the immigration issue for petty partisan pursuits, dividing the American public and leaving many immigrants in fear. This time, let's have a debate and produce a compromise that brings Americans together – those who want to strengthen border security and enforce our immigration laws and those who believe we should welcome the young immigrants who arrived in our country as children, grew up here, and are already contributing to the greatness of America.” “Congress must do its job and have the debate we have avoided for years,” said Denham. “My rule is about coming together in a bipartisan manner to find a compromise on a permanent solution for America’s Dreamers and responsible border security.” “We have an opportunity to finally gain operational control of our border and provide a permanent legislative fix for people who came to this country through no fault of their own,” said Hurd, who represents more U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “We cannot avoid action any longer and this is an important issue that the American people want debated on the house floor.” Signatories of the Discharge Petition include: Reps. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Will Hurd (TX-23), David G. Valadao (CA-21), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Mia B. Love (UT-4), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Charles W. Dent (PA-15), Fred Upton, (MI-6), David G. Reichert (WA-8), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Chris Collins (NY-27), John J. Faso (NY-19), Mark E. Amodei (NV-2), and Elise M. Stefanik (NY-21). Signatories are updated in real-time here. Several of the signatories participated in a press conference earlier today. Video is available on Rep. Hurd’s Facebook page here. Representantes Republicanos Presentan Propuesta para Forzar el Voto de DACA Washington, D.C. – Hoy, un grupo de legisladores republicanos presentaron una propuesta para forzar una serie de votos en la Cámara de Representantes relacionado con cuatro proyectos de ley sobre DACA, inmigración y la seguridad de la frontera. Si la petición, liderada por el Representante Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), recibe el apoyo de 218 congresistas, le brindará oportunidad a Miembros del Congreso para debatir el tema en el pleno de la Cámara de Representantes conforme a la regla "queen of the hill". De acuerdo con la regla, la propuesta que reciba más votos y cumpla con el límite obligatorio del voto mayoritario será la adoptada. “Desde que llegué al Congreso una de mis prioridades principales ha sido forjar un acuerdo migratorio que incluya una solución justa y permanente para los jóvenes inmigrantes que llegaron a EEUU en su niñez y también el robustecimiento de la seguridad fronteriza y de nuestras leyes migratorias,” dijo Curbelo. “Desde que el Presidente exhortó al Congreso a legislar a favor de los jóvenes inscritos en el programa DACA y otros temas migratorios, la Cámara no ha hecho nada. El congreso debe proceder con valor y confianza y no ser inhibido por la cobardía en la búsqueda de las soluciones legislativas que los estadounidenses exigen. Nuestra propuesta no intenta imponer ninguna legislación específica sino más bien tiene el fin de habilitar a todos los miembros de la Cámara, incluyendo al Presidente de la misma, a producir un proyecto de ley que logre una mayoría de los votos y la firma de la Casa Blanca. Por más de 12 años ambos partidos se han aprovechado del tema de la inmigración para hacer política mezquina. Como resultado, han dejado al país dividido y a muchos inmigrantes viviendo con temor. Esta vez, tengamos un debate que termine en una solución que una al país - a los que quieren que se respeten las fronteras de EEUU y que se hagan cumplir sus leyes migratorias y también a los que desean darles la bienvenida a los jóvenes que llegaron a EEUU de niños, se han criado en nuestro país y hoy en día contribuyen a la grandeza del mismo.” “El Congreso debe hacer su trabajo y tener el debate que hemos evitado durante años,” dijo Denham. “Mi regla es unirnos de una manera bipartidista para encontrar un compromiso y una solución permanente para los soñadores de América y una seguridad fronteriza responsable.” “Tenemos una oportunidad de finalmente obtener el control operativo de nuestra frontera y proveer un arreglo legislativo permanente para las personas que vinieron a este país sin culpa propia,” dijo Hurd, quien representa más de la frontera entre México-EEUU que cualquier otro miembro del congreso. “No podemos evitar acción por más tiempo y esto es un asunto importante que la gente americana quiere ver debatida ante la Cámara de Representantes. Congresistas apoyando la propuesta incluyen: Reps. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Will Hurd (TX-23), David G. Valadao (CA-21), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Mia B. Love (UT-4), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Charles W. Dent (PA-15), Fred Upton, (MI-6), David G. Reichert (WA-8), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Chris Collins (NY-27), John J. Faso (NY-19), Mark E. Amodei (NV-2), and Elise M. Stefanik (NY-21). ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In response to the Administration’s recent announcement regarding the Iran Deal, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: "Our goals should be to deny the Iranian Government a path to a nuclear weapon and to terminate its support for terrorist groups. The JCPOA has not and would not achieve either. I hope during the wind down period before re-imposition of sanctions that we can work with our Allies to make Iran accountable to international norms, because the only way to achieve our goals is through international cooperation."
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On May 8, 2018, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met with Foreign Policy Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia Ambassador Tedo Japaridze. They affirmed the importance of the U.S.-Georgia bilateral relationship and discussed shared priorities including Georgia’s commitment to modernization and institutional reforms, the importance of U.S. economic investment in Georgia, and Georgia’s support to NATO and transatlantic security. They also addressed Georgia’s strategic location and how it provides Georgia opportunities to play a key role in regional security challenges. “Georgia continues to be a steadfast ally on our common security interests,” said Hurd, a member of the House Intelligence Committee who spent almost as a decade as an undercover officer in the CIA. “I look forward to our continued collaboration as we work to strengthen transatlantic security.”
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In honor of San Antonio’s Tricentennial Commemorative Week, U.S. Representative Will Hurd co-sponsored with his fellow San Antonio colleagues a bipartisan resolution recognizing the 300th anniversary of the Alamo City’s founding. “It’s no surprise that San Antonio’s population is growing more quickly than that of any other city in our State,” said Hurd, who was born and raised in San Antonio. “Alamo City is modernizing and leading the way in cybersecurity and defense across both Texas and the country, rightfully earning the titles of Military City, USA and Cyber City, USA, while maintaining and celebrating its centuries of rich culture and history. It’s an honor to reflect on our city’s accomplishments over the past three centuries during Commemorative Week, and I look forward to more great things from my hometown.” Full text of the resolution (H.Res.858) can be found here.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following the House of Representatives vote to impose sanctions on Iranian regime officials for politically-motivated human rights abuses and hostage-taking, including new sanctions for individuals complicit in politically-motivated detentions of Americans citizens. U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “Without consequences, Iran’s human rights abuses will only continue,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who spent almost a decade as an undercover officer in the CIA. “The Iranian government has demonstrated the persistent harassment, extortion and unlawful detention of US citizens and residents time and time again in order to intimidate, control and aggressively posture towards the West. These additional sanctions are critical to hold this regime accountable and protect Americans from falling prey to horrific, politically-motivated oppression that is a part of Iran’s broader destabilizing activity in the region.”
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Will Hurd and Henry Cuellar have introduced a bipartisan amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018, that supports active-duty military personnel and their families who frequently travel back and forth to Washington. Amendment #147 would allow airlines the option to provide nonstop service from airports near military medical facilities, including San Antonio International Airport (SAT), directly to Washington’s Ronald Reagan National Airport (DCA) and the Pentagon. The rule was made an order last night and a vote is expected on the House floor this week. Due to a federal rule made in 1966, San Antonio lies less than 150 miles beyond the 1250 mile perimeter for direct flights to DCA. If adopted, the amendment would allow airlines the option to swap up to four slots in total from inside the perimeter to outside the perimeter, if the free-market demand merits such. “San Antonio is home to the largest Joint Base in the DOD, more than 80,000 military and civilian professionals, the DoD’s only Level 1 Trauma Center, and two VA Hospitals that serve the nation’s largest active and retired military population,” said Hurd. “A nonstop flight to DCA would save the military countless hours and taxpayer dollars that could be spent on critical national security needs. I urge my colleagues to support this minimal adjustment that serves thousands of active duty service members and their families.”
04.25.2018	EL PASO, TX – The El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce was recognized by the state of Texas as Small Chamber of the Year and as Chamber of the Year at the 2018 U.S. Chamber Convention. Thrilled by the news, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “The El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce has been a critical institution for a range of businesses on our Southern border for over 26 years,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents East El Paso County and more U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “Since 2003, the Chamber has helped to secure over $250 million in funding for our local small businesses. These awards are well-deserved and a testament to the lasting positive impact their efforts have across the El Paso region, the 23rdDistrict of Texas and our state as a whole.”
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Will Hurd (R-TX), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Jeff Denham (R-CA) and Lujan Grisham (D-NM) announced that their bipartisan “queen-of-the-hill” rule to allow a floor debate on four DACA solution measures now has the support of 50 Republicans and 190 Democrats for a total of 240 cosponsors, easily surpassing the 218 votes needed to pass the measure through the House. The rule would allow a debate and floor vote on Rep. Goodlatte’s Securing America’s Future Act, the clean Dream Act, a bill offered by Speaker Ryan, and the bipartisan USA Act, a bill introduced by Reps. Aguilar, Denham, Hurd and Lujan Grisham earlier this year. Whichever proposal receives the most votes and meets the mandatory majority-vote threshold would be adopted. “We cannot avoid action any longer. We must secure our border and create a permanent legislative fix for DACA-recipients. I am proud to continue my bipartisan work to advance the narrowly-focused USA Act through the Queen of the Hill Rule offered by Rep. Denham,” said U.S. Rep. Will Hurd who represents more U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “The support of so many Republicans and Democrats proves that we can solve these problems in a bipartisan way.” “It’s been over seven months since the president ended the DACA program, and Congress has yet to take any meaningful action. Despite multiple bipartisan attempts to solve this problem and create long-term certainty for Dreamers with bills like the USA Act, we still have not been allowed to take a vote on the House floor. I’m proud to support this rule because it would truly let the House work its will and give Dreamers the vote on a pathway to citizenship that they deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. “It’s time that Congress does its job and moves forward with one unified, bipartisan strategy for our Dreamers,” said Rep. Denham. “We have the support for an open debate and a vote; no more excuses, no more delays.” “I’m especially proud of this bipartisan “queen of the hill’ effort, which has the support of 240 Members of the House of Representatives – both Republicans and Democrats. The momentum behind this effort makes it unquestionably clear to Speaker Ryan that an overwhelming number of House Members want the opportunity to vote on a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers. The queen of the hill legislative push is in keeping with our commitment to protecting Dreamers and families, and to using every tool available to pass a bipartisan legislative solution that provides these young people with a path to citizenship. If Speaker Ryan supports this bipartisan effort, I believe that there is enough will and courage in Congress to take up this debate and do the right thing for the hundreds of thousands of young people who have worked to contribute to the only country they’ve ever known,” said Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairwoman Michelle Lujan Grisham. Neil Bradley, Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said of the effort, “The Chamber supports the efforts of Representatives Denham, Hurd, Aguilar, Lujan Grisham, and many others to initiate a long-overdue immigration debate in the House of Representatives. We hope their work on House Resolution 774 leads to a serious debate on bipartisan legislation that addresses the plight of Dreamers and implements much needed improvements to our nation’s border security efforts.” "The American people want their leaders to lead on immigration reform," said Jeremy Robbins, Executive Director of New American Economy. "A deal to secure the border and protect Dreamers makes sense to both sides of the aisle, and we applaud Rep. Denham for taking the initiative and creating a path through the gridlock."
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On April 17, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met with Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) Chief of Staff to the President Fuad Hussein and Minister of Foreign Relations Falah Bakir. Participants affirmed the importance of continued U.S.-Kurdish cooperation and discussed a range of issues, including KRG relations with the Iraqi government, upcoming Iraqi parliamentary elections and Kurdish political, economic and humanitarian challenges following the defeat of Islamic State. They also addressed the critical role the KRG needs to play in reestablishing stability in Iraq’s democracy. “The Kurds have been critical partners of the United States in operations to defeat Islamic State and success in those operations would not have been possible without the Kurdish Peshmerga’s support, who are one of the most capable fighting forces in the region. Iraq’s democracy is at an important juncture with upcoming parliamentary elections and requires the inclusion and cooperation of all players – Shias, Sunnis and Kurds. I look forward to continued collaboration between the United States and KRG as Iraq re-establishes its security and stability in a challenging region.”
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), a competitive grant program administered by the U.S. Department of Education designed to increase the number of low-income students prepared for college and their careers by providing counseling, tutoring, mentoring and scholarships for middle school and high school students. Hurd’s GEAR UP for Success Act, introduced with U.S. Representative Susan Davis (CA-53), increases the eligible uses of this scholarship funding, codifying the awarding of these grants through routine competitions, and reducing the burdens imposed by the federal government on the grantees. “Ensuring access to educational opportunities for all Texans – regardless of their background – strengthens our economy, drives technological advancement across every industry and allows folks to overcome socioeconomic challenges that are influenced by education inequality,” said Hurd, who represents 45 middle and high schools served by the GEAR UP grant program. “GEAR UP serves thousands of local students in my district and gives them the tools they need to become valuable contributors to our workforce. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that every student has an equal chance for success.” “GEAR UP has a proven track record of success in inspiring and preparing students for education beyond high school,” said U.S. Sen. John Cornyn. “This legislation reduces costs to free up time and money for grantees to focus on students and gives local leaders more freedom to decide how best to tailor the program for their specific needs.” “I'm proud to join my colleague, Congressman Hurd, to lead this critical education bill,” said Rep. Davis. “The Gear Up program has a proven track record of success, helping students get to and through higher education. Investing in our students is a direct investment in our future.” “This grant program allows Sul Ross to continue serving students of the Big Bend region, as we have capably done since 2005,” said Sul Ross State University President Dr. Bill Kibler. “GEAR UP programs at Sul Ross have supported thousands of students from seventh grade through their first year of college, with programs ranging from academic tutoring to financial assistance literacy to tours and on-campus experiences. We look forward to enhancing post-secondary opportunities through GEAR UP for the future.” "SAISD has been proud to receive GEAR UP funding over the past 13 years to help ensure our students have a strong pathway that leads to college and career success,” said San Antonio Independent School District Superintendent Pedro Martinez.“We are delighted to see Rep. Hurd introducing this important piece of legislation that will benefit students here in Texas-23 and across the country." The 23rd District of Texas is one of the nation’s largest beneficiaries of GEAR UP grants with millions of funding awarded to San Antonio Independent School District (SAISD), Sul Ross State University, and the University of Texas at El Paso, among others. SAISD partners with Big Brothers Big Sisters, Communities and Schools and UTSA to provide GEAR UP services to students. Sul Ross partners with San Felipe Del Rio CISD, Presidio ISD and Terlingua ISD to provide services. UTEP partners with CommUNITY en Acción, El Paso Electric (for mentoring) and many others. Senator Cornyn has introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On April 5 and 6, U.S. Representative Will Hurd visited Brussels, Belgium for meetings with European Union (EU) and NATO officials. Participants affirmed the importance of continued collaboration between the U.S., EU, and NATO and discussed a range of issues, including Russian influence operations, counterterrorism cooperation, cybersecurity, and energy security. They also addressed the importance of coordination between the EU and NATO on common security challenges and threats. “We must continue to show support for and not take for granted the institutions that bind the transatlantic alliance. The EU and NATO are addressing a myriad of challenges, spanning from Russian aggression to migration, that threaten the future success of these institutions, and it is only through coordinated action and partnership that we can overcome those challenges. The solidarity taken between the U.S., EU, NATO, and other European allies to expel Russian diplomats in response to the Russian nerve agent attack in the UK demonstrates our collective strength when we act together in showing the Russians that their actions do have consequences. Such coordinated action should be the norm, and I look forward to continued collaboration between the U.S. and these institutions in the pursuit of shared interests.”
04.09.2018	CHISINAU, MOLDOVA – On April 4, U.S. Representative Will Hurd visited Chisinau, Moldova for meetings with Moldovan Speaker of Parliament Andrian Candu, Foreign Minister Tudor Ulianovschi, and Democratic Party leader Vlad Plahotniuc. Participants affirmed the importance of current and future U.S.-Moldova bilateral cooperation and discussed a range of issues, including the Russian nerve agent attack in the UK and Moldovan efforts to fight corruption and promote security sector reforms. They also addressed the importance of Moldova’s progress towards integration with Europe and aligning reforms of Moldova’s institutions with international best practices. “We must continue to show support for the integration of our eastern European allies with Europe. Moldova has been a steadfast partner of the U.S. and Europe, most recently demonstrated by the solidarity taken with the U.S. and European states by expelling Russian diplomats in response to the Russian nerve agent attack in the UK. Moldova has been at the forefront of countering Russian influence operations and can offer keen insights as we address our own challenges in countering such operations. I look forward to continued collaboration with Moldova in the pursuit of shared interests in Europe.”
04.05.2018	TBILISI, GEORGIA – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met with Georgian Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili. They affirmed the importance of U.S.-Georgia bilateral cooperation and discussed a range of issues, including Georgia’s democratic reforms, prospects for deepening bilateral trade and economic relations, and Georgia’s contributions to ensuring international security. They also addressed the importance of Georgia’s progress towards integration with Europe and the need for continued collaboration on common security challenges and threats. "We must continue to show our allies that the U.S. has their backs. While Georgia is not a member of NATO they have been a steadfast partner to the US and NATO missions in Afghanistan and as part of the defeat-ISIS coalition and have contributed more to the Alliance than some members that are actually in the Alliance. Georgia has also been at the forefront of countering Russian aggression and predicted the invasion of Crimea. We can learn from Georgia as we address our own challenges in countering Russian influence operations. I look forward to continued collaboration with Georgia our steadfast ally and friend.”
03.29.2018	PRESIDIO COUNTY, TX – This week, the Health Resources & Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that Presidio County Health Services, Inc. has been awarded $334,618 in grant funding for the construction of new access sites and to expand the practice to include pharmacy, dental and mental health services. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who submitted a letter of support for the project, was thrilled by the news. “Community health centers have an enormous positive impact on the health and wellness of hundreds of thousands of Texans in my district, especially in underserved rural communities,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents 39 community health centers and tirelessly advocates for them in Congress. “The investment we make into these centers saves money by reducing hospitalizations and trips to the emergency room, while providing much-needed healthcare to many uninsured individuals, children and veterans. I will continue to look for opportunities that directly benefit the communities in Brewster County and all of West Texas.” “This funding will help us better serve the communities in Presidio, Marfa and Alpine,” said Cynthia Esquivel, Chief Operating Officer of Presidio County Health Services, Inc. “These funds will help facilitate quality medical and behavioral health services at a discounted rate, while also allowing us to add dental services to our scope of practice in Alpine and Presidio. We are grateful for Congressman Hurd’s support and continued advocacy for community health centers across Texas.” Health centers provide high quality preventive and primary health care to medically underserved populations regardless of their ability to pay. Since 2015, Rep. Hurd has supported grant applications that have resulted in over $20 million for clinics in TX-23 and has been recognized by the National Association of Community Health Centers as a Rising Community Health Center Leader, as well as, received the 2018 Community Health Center Defender Award for his exceptional support.
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd received the 2018 Government Eagle Award at last night’s Federal 100 award ceremony, which celebrates outstanding individual achievements in federal IT and is hosted by FCW. The Eagle Award recognizes one government leader and one industry leader out of the pool of Federal 100 winners who have made the greatest impact on federal IT that year. Hurd, who chairs the House IT Subcommittee and authored the bipartisan, bicameral Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act, released the following statement: “The timing of this award couldn’t be better, on the same day that the House passed the FY18 Omnibus which included funding for the MGT Act and has now been signed into law. Securing funding is reflective of the overwhelming bipartisan support the bill received in both Chambers of Congress throughout the multi-year initiative to make this a reality. I am grateful for my colleagues who recognized not only extensive security risks, but also the tremendous opportunity we have to make government more efficient and reliable to taxpayers. I will continue to fight to make government more innovative, secure and cost-effective for Americans.” Hurd added, “Thank you to the entire federal IT community for their efforts to bring government into the 21st century.”
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Representatives Will Hurd (TX-23), Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and the San Antonio Delegation announced an additional $15 million in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. This bill was approved by the House of Representatives and is moving on to a vote in the Senate. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. USACE has been slowly paying back the funds thanks to the help of Representatives Hurd, Cuellar and other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation. To date, the project has been allocated $16.2 million in reimbursement. Under this bill, the project is expected to receive an additional $15 million, provided that the USACE continues to prioritize this funding through their FY18 Work Plan. Congressman Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park, said, “Over the last few years, we’ve watched Mission Reach produce tremendous cultural and economic gains, not just for the Southside – but for all of San Antonio – by connecting all five UNESCO-recognized Spanish Missions with hike and bike trails, and attracting millions in private-sector development. I am proud to secure reimbursement year after year so that San Antonio River Authority can continue their transformative ecological, cultural and economic improvements for our city. Additionally, I want to thank Chairman Mike Simpson for his engagement on this issue and his willingness to listen to me and the San Antonio River Authority through numerous meetings throughout the year. I am proud of our close working relationship and look forward to continuing our work together on behalf of San Antonio.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur, for their assistance in announcing this language, along with Senator Cornyn and my fellow Congressmen from San Antonio – Reps. Hurd, Smith, Doggett, and Castro– for their help in repaying these Bexar County funds. The Mission Reach project has been a huge success and undoubtedly benefited the entire San Antonio and Bexar County community. It is time for Bexar County to be reimbursed in full for the loan it provided to the Corps so it can reinvest these funds into other important projects to benefit our citizens. I’m glad to see the Committee on Appropriations embrace this effort and include language in this year’s bill.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight-mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.”
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd was proud to receive the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of his tireless support for the business community. He released the following statement: “99.8 percent of Texas businesses are small businesses and employ roughly 4.6 million hardworking Texans. These businesses are the lifeblood of our economy and the backbone of our local communities. I will continue to fight for policy solutions and regulatory reform that fosters innovation, entrepreneurship and job growth for the folks who contribute so much to our state and our nation.”
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to the passing of colleague U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter, Rep. Hurd released the following statement: "I am sad to hear about the passing of my friend Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, a trailblazer who fiercely advocated for what she believed in. I was honored to know and serve in Congress with such a dedicated public servant, and she will be deeply missed. My thoughts are with her family and loved ones."
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding the U.S. Treasury Department’s announcement to sanction five entities and 19 individuals in Russia involved in meddling with the 2016 U.S. election and other cyberattacks: “Russia will stop at nothing to erode trust in our democratic institutions. I’ve been calling for U.S. action against Russian covert operations since long before the 2016 election. It’s about time the Administration fights back against Russian cyber warfare by issuing these targeted sanctions. This is an important first step, but we must continue to demonstrate to Vladimir Putin, and other bad actors, that America won’t tolerate this behavior.”
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement concerning the draft report of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s (HPSCI) Russia Investigation: “Russia has one simple goal: to erode trust in our democratic institutions. As HPSCI continues its oversight function, we must now take action on the draft recommendations and counter Russian influence operations that are sure to target the upcoming 2018 Elections.” After inspecting 307,905 documents, taking 230 hours of testimony and reviewing 2,000 classified source documents over the course of 426 days, the draft report addresses in detail, the following parameters agreed upon by the full committee in March 2017: What Russian cyber activity and other active measures were directed against the United States and its allies? Did the Russian active measures include links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns or any other U.S. persons? What was the U.S. Government’s response to these Russian active measures and what do we need to do to protect ourselves and our allies in the future? What possible leaks of classified information took place related to the Intelligence Community Assessment of these matters? More than 40 initial findings are detailed in the 150-page draft report. The Committee also offers more than 25 recommendations for Congress and the Executive Branch to implement, such as improving election security and counterintelligence practices related to political campaigns; providing support to our European allies; streamlining government response to cyber-attacks; and strengthening campaign finance transparency. Furthermore, the HPSCI investigation has no impact on the ongoing investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement in response to the President’s announcement to impose new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports: “China is using predatory practices that are hurting the U.S. economy. However, imposing high tariffs on imported commodities is going to cause an unnecessary trade war that will result in higher prices for middle class Americans on everything from the food we put on our tables to fuel we put in our cars. I’m glad to see our neighbors Mexico and Canada exempt but we should focus on solving the real problem rather than using an 18th century tool that has repeatedly failed in the past.”
03.08.2018	Since its passage in December, major utility companies nationwide have announced plans to pass on savings to their customers due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Recently, El Paso Electric Company (EPE) joined the list, announcing that it will provide a credit to base rates beginning in April 2018 for Texas consumers, pending regulatory approval. In a statement provided by EPE, President and CEO Mary Kipp states that “With the reduction in the federal statutory income tax rate and our recent rate case settlement, it was important for El Paso Electric to plan ahead in order to pass those savings along to our customers as quickly and efficiently as possible. An important provision of our rate case settlement was to create the mechanism to credit these savings back to our Texas customers.” The announcement could not have come at a better time. The massive savings prove that every-day Americans are reaping the benefits of tax reform. EPE services approximately 320,000 Texas customers, including constituents in El Paso, Hudspeth and Culberson Counties. According to the announcement, the EPE is proposing to provide a rate decrease to pass through the effect of the tax reduction by applying a credit to base rates beginning April 1, 2018, for the electric service it provides to Texans. Historic tax reform continues to produce tangible benefits for American workers, job creators and families nationwide. Now, in addition to 90 percent of Americans keeping more money in their paychecks, El Paso electricity consumers can look forward to receiving additional relief. I am proud to have fought hard to deliver real results to the hardworking folks in El Paso County who are the true faces of tax reform.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued an invitation to high school students who reside in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas to enter the annual Congressional Art Competition. Every year, Congress holds an art competition to find talented students throughout the country. The winner from each district will have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for the following year. “Talent should be recognized and hard work should be rewarded. I’m confident that our district is full of talented young people and I’m looking forward to seeing this year’s works of art,” said Hurd. For rules and submission information, CLICK HERE or call his San Antonio District Office at 210-921-3130. Entries will be accepted April 30 through May 4, 2018.
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following the House of Representatives budget vote to fully fund our military, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “In 2017, we lost 80 brave service members in accidents and training incidents—nearly four times more than we lost in combat. With better equipment and training, we will not only improve military readiness, but we can also prevent future loss of life,” said Hurd, who served alongside men and women in uniform during his decade of service in the CIA. “Texas is the proud home to 15 military installations, over 160,000 active duty and reserve military members and roughly 1.5 million veterans. These men and women are our country’s most valuable assets, serving on the frontlines of defending our nation from terrorists and nuclear threats. The bipartisan budget deal will rebuild our military capabilities for current and future threats, and allows us to keep our promises to the brave men and women who make daily sacrifices to protect our freedoms.” The Bipartisan Budget Act fully funds national defense at the level requested by the Department of Defense and authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act.
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following the Senate introduction of the DHS Data Framework Act, companion legislation to the House bill introduced last year by U.S. Representative Will Hurd, Hurd released the following statement: “Seventeen years have passed since 9/11, yet barriers to information sharing still exist, hindering law enforcement's ability to get the right information to the right people at the right time. DHS personnel should be able to share information quickly without compromising our nation’s secrets, and that’s why my colleagues on both sides of the aisle unanimously approved the DHS Data Framework Act in the House,” said Hurd, who served as an undercover officer in the CIA for almost a decade. “I applaud Senator Maggie Hassan for introducing the DHS Data Framework Act in the Senate and taking up this initiative to keep Americans safe.” The DHS Data Framework Act codifies an effort at DHS to develop a data framework to incorporate all DHS component agency data related to homeland security, terrorist information, weapons of mass destruction, and national intelligence, into one system, thereby alleviating the current costly, cumbersome process of searching and vetting information against multiple databases with different log-ins, passwords, and legal restrictions.
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) and Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) praised Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Christopher Coons (D-DE) for introducing the bipartisan Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act in the Senate. Like the House version, the Senate companion provides a permanent, legislative fix for DACA recipients and calls for smart border security measures to gain operational control of our borders by 2020. It is also a vehicle that will allow Congress to finally vote on long-term appropriations for our military and Department of Homeland Security. “Our plan offers a permanent legislative solution for children who came here of no fault of their own – while achieving operational control of the border by 2020 – two things we all can agree on. I am pleased that Senators McCain and Coons are working together to introduce this legislation in the Senate so we can solve this increasingly urgent issue.” said Rep. Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “Americans are tired of partisan gridlock. They deserve solutions. This is about Congress doing our job and it proves that Republicans and Democrats in both Chambers of Congress are willing to work together to unite and secure America.” “Hundreds of thousands of young people are waiting for answers about their futures while Congress continues to talk rather than act. Now is the time to work across party lines to provide certainty to Dreamers,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The USA Act is a targeted approach that can pass the House and Senate today. I’m grateful to Senators McCain and Coons for their leadership on this issue and for introducing the Senate companion to the USA Act.” ###
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Will Hurd (TX-23), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) introduced the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, a bipartisan bill that protects DACA recipients from deportation while implementing new commonsense border security measures through enhanced technology, manpower and physical barriers, where necessary. The bill also addresses the immigration backlog that keeps families in limbo while advancing reforms in Central America to address the factors driving migration to the United States. The bill was introduced to the floor with 50 original co-sponsors. “After multiple attempts to find a solution, it’s time to narrow our strategy. Our plan offers a permanent legislative solution for children who came here of no fault of their own – while achieving operational control of the border by 2020,” said Rep. Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “Americans are tired of partisan gridlock. They deserve solutions. This is about Congress doing our job and it proves that R’s and D’s are willing to work together to unite and secure America.” “For too long, Congress has asked hundreds of thousands of young people to put their lives on hold while we play politics with their futures,” said Rep. Aguilar. “This bill represents a real bipartisan compromise that will provide a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers, and allow for a reasonable approach to securing our border. One of my top priorities is to ensure that these young people can continue the lives they’ve built here, and the USA Act will do just that.” CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE PRESS CONFERENCE “The government asked Dreamers to come out of the shadows, and it’s time for Congress to pass legislation that will allow them to truly move forward with their lives. The only way to accomplish this is through compromise that includes border security measures,” said Rep. Denham. “DACA recipients are American in every way possible except on paper. They have paid their fees, passed background checks and are working, pursuing college degrees, or serving in our military to contribute to the greatness of America.” “Democrats and Republicans stand united with the overwhelming majority of Americans who oppose deporting Dreamers. There is nothing political or partisan about protecting Dreamers, in fact there is agreement and bipartisanship because we all recognize the important contributions that these young people are making to our communities and our country. The USA Act is fair, bipartisan, targeted legislation that provides Dreamers with certainty, enacts common sense border security measures, and should be passed without delay,” said Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “With the March deadline quickly approaching, it is more critical than ever that Congress come together to provide a legal path forward for Dreamers. The USA Act is a reasonable, bipartisan solution to ensure these young people may remain in the only home they know, the United States,” said Rep. David G. Valadao (CA-21). “I would like to thank Representatives Hurd and Aguilar for introducing the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act. This is an important step in reinstating the DACA program and ensuring that our borders are made more secure,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “As we face another government shutdown, it is clear that we are long overdue in providing a solution for hundreds of thousands of hardworking immigrants across the United States. As someone who lives on the border and understands the border, I am glad to see that the USA Act will also implement necessary commonsense border security measures that will keep our borders and citizens safe. I believe that this bipartisan bill is an important step in addressing concerns regarding immigration, border security, and DACA, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in congress on these key issues.” CLICK HERE FOR THE BILL TEXT
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, the new Aspen Cyber Strategy Group kicked off its inaugural meeting in hopes of developing implementable solutions for today’s most pressing cybersecurity challenges. The group, founded by the Aspen Institute, a nonpartisan forum for values-based leadership and the exchange of ideas, is tri-Chaired by U.S. Representative Hurd, Chair of the House Subcommittee on Information Technology, IBM Chairman, President and CEO Ginni Rometty and former White House Homeland Security Advisor Lisa O. Monaco. The Aspen Cyber Strategy Group will facilitate robust conversation between 35 experts from both the public and private sectors on how to best address today’s cybersecurity challenges. “We are becoming more dependent on technologies each day, yet no comprehensive, nonpartisan group exists to keep up with the associated security implications across all sectors,” said Hurd, who has tirelessly championed IT modernization efforts in Congress and represents the growing technology and cybersecurity industries in San Antonio. “I look forward to working with my fellow chairs and members of the Aspen Cyber Strategy Group to help facilitate a productive discussion between CEO’s, lawmakers and academics that leads to concrete, tangible cybersecurity solutions that bolster information security and safety, without stifling innovation.” For more information, read the Axios brief here.
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives approved the first major tax reform bill since 1986. In response to the historic tax overhaul, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) released the following statement: “For too long, small businesses have struggled and families have lived paycheck to paycheck. Today, we are providing much-needed relief and keeping more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans. In addition to doubling the standard deduction – which 80 percent of my constituents rely on – the simplified plan will provide a huge boost to the economy by empowering businesses to hire, invest and spend more right here at home. Americans deserve a fairer and simpler tax code for a new era of American prosperity. I will continue to support policies that champion economic growth and provide families in my district with financial relief.”
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement on the signing of the Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act within the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), marking the Congressman’s twelfth piece of legislation signed into law: “Every year, the federal government wastes billions of hard-earned taxpayer dollars maintaining outdated, unreliable and unsecured IT systems – some of which were first designed in the 1960’s. Until now. “The MGT Act will bring the government’s IT systems into the 21st century and allow agencies to use the money that is saved to modernize other systems, helping create more quality and timely services to the American people. Imagine being able to renew your passport online. How about our military veterans not having to take hard-copies of their health records with them to the doctor? It’s 2017 and these are the types of services that the American people deserve from their government. Today, we’re delivering. “Thank you to all those on both sides of the political aisle who worked together to get MGT across the finish line.” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said of the MGT Act: “Our world today delivers goods, services, education, and communications at a rapid pace. Sadly, our government has fallen behind when it comes to serving our citizens, which leaves personal information insecure and erodes the trust between the people and their government. Currently, 80% of the federal government’s $80 billion IT budget goes to managing legacy systems instead of upgrading them to state-of-the-art systems. This is both expensive and a security risk, as old systems are less safe. “Within the National Defense Authorization Act that President Trump signed today is Representative Will Hurd’s Modernizing Government Technology Act, which establishes an IT modernization fund at executive branch agencies to upgrade their technology systems. Passing this legislation is exactly what the American people expect their representatives to do: see an obvious problem and work together on a practical solution to solve it.”
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Rep. Will Hurd (TX-23) and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) today introduced a bipartisan House resolution to recognize #GivingTuesday as part of a global movement for giving, volunteerism, and service to others. #GivingTuesday, the first Tuesday following Thanksgiving, continues the holiday giving season with a global day dedicated to charitable giving and volunteerism, following the widely recognized shopping events Black Friday, Small Business Saturday, and Cyber Monday. “During the season of giving, it is important to remember that much more unites us than divides us. If we focus on these things as Americans, we can continue to be the greatest nation in the world,” said U.S. Rep. Will Hurd.“Giving Tuesday is the perfect example of how we come together to help those in need, and I’m proud to work across the aisle with Rep. Gabbard to make the designation of this important day official.” “Every single day – and especially today on #GivingTuesday – we have the opportunity to reflect on all that we’re grateful for, and pay it forward,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. “Whether it’s donating your time, your talents, or a part of your paycheck, we all can find a way to give back to the causes in our communities that inspire us. As we work to overcome divisiveness and hatred, the spirit of #GivingTuesday is an opportunity to work together in the spirit of aloha and be a force for peace and positive change across our world.”
11.21.2017	DEL RIO, TEXAS -- U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement on the T-38 Talon Crash at Laughlin Air Force Base: "My heart goes out to the pilot who lost his life while training at Laughlin Air Force Base, the pilot injured and the families of both Airmen. Whether training stateside or deployed overseas, we must not forget the sacrifices the men and women of our Armed Forces make each day for our nation."
11.19.2017	VAN HORN, TEXAS -- Following the death of Border Patrol Agent Rogelio Martinez, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: "My thoughts are with the loved ones of Border Patrol Agent Rogelio Martinez, who was fatally injured in Van Horn. Praying for a full recovery for his partner, who is currently in serious condition. The men and women of our Border Patrol have an incredibly dangerous and demanding job and they are our most important resource to securing our border."
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Defying what many thought impossible, U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s (R-TX) smart government plan to revolutionize federal IT is now on its way to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act allows federal agencies to cut wasteful spending and bolster information security by transitioning their IT systems toward more modern platforms like cloud computing. Hurd’s bipartisan bill is the biggest IT Reform package in decades and was approved in the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) after Hurd’s two-year effort. It is his twelfth piece of legislation to become law. “The fact that our federal government continues to waste billions of hard-earned taxpayer dollars each year maintaining outdated, legacy IT systems is absolutely outrageous. It’s 2017. The American people deserve better from their government,” said Hurd, who has tirelessly championed modernization efforts in Congress and represents the growing tech and cybersecurity sector of San Antonio. “Our federal agencies will finally have the motivation to catch up with the 21st Century and embrace emerging technologies so that we can leave behind these antiquated legacy IT systems that have plagued our government for decades. Instead, we can look forward to providing more efficient, transparent services for the American people and safeguard our systems from cyberattacks. I applaud my colleagues in the House and Senate for working to get MGT across the finish line.” The MGT Act incentivizes federal agencies to embrace using 21st Century technologies and streamline spending through a working capital fund, composed of savings earned by doing things like reforming IT acquisition, updating IT systems, replacing legacy products, and transitioning to cloud computing, that can be used for further IT updates. “It comes as no surprise to anyone that has had to interact with federal agencies that our government’s technology is stuck in the past. These antiquated systems also leave public and personal data of Americans at a great risk to be compromised by hackers. Unfortunately, identifying and implementing solutions to these challenges has proven difficult for policymakers,” said House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA). “Will Hurd has used his expertise and passion to lead the House in policy reforms that bring the federal government into the 21st century. Today’s vote on the National Defense Authorization Act – which includes MGT – brings the federal government one step closer to better serving and protecting our citizens.” “This bipartisan legislation will propel our inefficient, outdated federal IT systems into the 21st century to promote productivity and strengthen cybersecurity,” said U.S. Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS), who introduced companion legislation in the Senate with U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-NM). “Passing the landmark MGT Act will modernize our federal IT infrastructure and position federal agencies to expeditiously upgrade their systems – with strong built-in oversight by Congress – to continuously evolve and protect against cybersecurity threats at home and around the globe. In addition, nearly 75 percent of the $80 billion we are spending annually on federal IT systems is going toward maintaining and operating legacy IT rather than making lasting improvements. These improved efficiencies will end that practice and ultimately save billions of taxpayer dollars by reducing long-term spending. I’m pleased my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree that IT investment reforms are an important step toward a more efficient, effective and secure government.” “Passage of the bipartisan MGT Act will save taxpayers many millions of dollars and strengthen our cybersecurity,” said U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-NM). “This major legislation will finally bring the federal government’s grossly outdated IT systems into the 21st century. As it stands, the federal government spends over $80 billion on IT – but 75 percent of that money is being spent to maintain old and legacy systems that date back to the time of dial-up modems and dot-matrix printers. The oldest were created in the 1950s. The MGT Act’s flexible funding options will allow us to break out of that cycle, enabling federal agencies to move forward with long-overdue projects to replace these legacy systems, providing better services at lower cost. These upgrades will also enable federal agencies to tackle dangerous cyber vulnerabilities and better protect Americans’ data from cyberattacks. This bipartisan, common-sense effort will help ensure that we’re getting better service at a better value for the American people.” “With the passage of the bipartisan Modernizing Government Technology Act, the federal government has taken a big first step toward upgrading our outdated technology infrastructure to increase our cyber-defenses and save taxpayer dollars,” said U.S. Representative Robin Kelly (D-IL), ranking member of the IT Subcommittee. “This bill is long overdue. It’s 2017, it’s time to bring the next generation of technology and innovation to government IT to save costs, protect our citizens personal information and enhance our security.” “The current patchwork of outdated, legacy IT systems is simply unsustainable in the current cyber climate,” said U.S. Representative Gerry Connolly (D-VA). “This is an important step to making the MGT Act a reality. By leveraging the savings created by FITARA, our legislation will help transition federal IT procurement towards 21st century technologies.” "Given the scale and the urgency of replacing vulnerable and outdated federal IT systems, the Professional Services Council (PSC) readily welcomes passage of the MGT Act and the progress it will make toward vital IT modernization. This legislation will improve agencies’ access to innovation, bolster cybersecurity, and help government deliver better services at better value to all Americans,” said Alan Chvotkin, Executive Vice President and Counsel of PSC. “We appreciate the leadership and hard work of Reps. Hurd and Connolly, and Sens. Moran and Udall, to secure the MGT Act’s approval. We urge Congress to follow its action today by including funding for the MGT Act to jumpstart critical investments in the government’s technology infrastructure in fiscal year 2018.” “The MGT Act is a prime example of bipartisan and innovative legislation that will benefit Americans across the country,” said Trey Hodgkins, Senior Vice President for the Public Sector of the IT Alliance for the Public Sector. “For the first time, our federal government will have funding to not only maintain its outdated technology but also infuse it with cutting-edge technologies that will protect Americans’ sensitive personal information and strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity in a cost-efficient way. We thank Representative Hurd and his colleagues for their leadership and dedication to this crucial legislation.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Following today’s vote on historic tax reform, U. S. Rep. Will Hurd issued the following statement: “The last time our tax code saw substantial reform was 1986. This is long overdue and the people have called for fairer, simpler tax reform for decades. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act simplifies our tax code and alleviates the burdensome tax filing process so that lower and middle-class individuals – not the wealthy – can receive much-needed financial relief. Families have more money in their pockets, small businesses can prosper, and more jobs will be created so folks can get ahead. This fix is what we need to strengthen our economy for the future.”
11.09.2017	SAN ANTONIO, TX – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd traveled to Texas with Vice President Mike Pence to visit with survivors of the Sutherland Springs tragedy and the families of victims lost. Hurd also received a briefing from local law enforcement and participated in a prayer vigil honoring the victims. “Witnessing the grief of these mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers was heartbreaking. One single South Texas family lost eight family members and an unborn child. The pain of this community is incomprehensible,” said Hurd, who represents nearby San Antonio and grew up less than 40 miles from the shooting. “We must do better. This individual should have never been able to get his hands on a firearm. Too many innocent lives were lost because a known violent criminal slipped through the cracks. I’ll continue to keep close watch of the Air Force’s comprehensive investigation to identify the exact lapse so that we do everything we can to prevent this from ever happening again. We must enforce the laws that were put in place to protect innocent people.”
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – As Amazon continues evaluating locations for it’s second headquarters, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued a letter to CEO Jeff Bezos championing the city of El Paso for site selection. “El Paso is home to a highly skilled, productive and qualified workforce, and a rich history that has been celebrating diversity for centuries…Due to our notoriously friendly people, affordable living, and laid-back lifestyle, it is no surprise that Texas attracts the most out-of-state Americans from every region than any other state,” wrote Hurd. “El Paso’s prime location, on the border of two leading global economies, provides a key access point to North American and world trade,” he continued. READ THE FULL LETTER HERE.
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, two amendments introduced by U.S. Representative Hurd to the Border Security for America Act were adopted by the House Committee on Homeland Security. These amendments protect the unique landscapes of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas while enhancing 21st Century technological solutions to gain operational control of our borders. The Border Security for America Act is a comprehensive border security approach that addresses the challenges in both rural and urban environments with an increase in 21st Century resources and manpower. The multi-layered bill also provides funds to improve, modernize, and enhance ports of entry so that lawful trade is streamlined and illegal trafficking is detected. In addition to the inclusion of many features of Rep. Hurd’s SMART Act into the border bill, such as the deployment of radar, LIDAR, sensors, and other innovative technologies, Hurd’s amendments are designed to: Prevent the deployment of tactical infrastructure, such as physical barriers or walls, in areas where natural terrain features (like the Boquillas Canyon in Big Bend or Lake Amistad in Del Rio) would make the deployment ineffective. Allow pre-existing park-access agreements between Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and National Park units (such as Big Bend National Park) to take precedence over increased access levels and activities allowed in the bill. “As I have been saying for years, a wall from sea to shining sea is the least effective and most expensive solution for border security. This is especially true in areas, like Big Bend National Park, where rough terrain, natural barriers, and the remoteness of a location render a wall or other structure impractical and ineffective. While I would like to think that common sense would dictate that the placement of a wall through the Boquillas Canyon in Big Bend or Lake Amistad in Del Rio is a bad idea, my amendment ensures that this point is clearly stated in this the bill, preventing hard-earned taxpayer dollars from being wasted on ineffective features,” said Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “In addition, many of the eight national parks in my district already have working agreements with Customs and Border Protection that account for their unique geographical and environmental ecosystems. I am especially proud of the close partnership that already exists between the CBP and Big Bend that respects the scenic nature of the park without sacrificing security operations. In this case, and in the case of many national parks along the border, the existing close coordination with CBP does not need fixing,” added Hurd.
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd invites students from the 23rd Congressional District to participate in the Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. Students in participating districts can win prizes, be recognized by their Member of Congress, and have their work put on display at the nation’s Capitol Building in Washington, DC. The deadline to submit is November 1, 2017. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. For more information and to submit your app, visit www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
09.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s (R-TX) long-anticipated Smart Government reform package was approved in the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Hurd’s bipartisan bill, the Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act, is designed to reduce wasteful IT spending and strengthen information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to modern technology like cloud computing. “The amount of money that our federal government spends on antiquated technology is mindboggling. Outdated technology policies and poor cybersecurity hygiene have riddled government agencies for decades, leaving our digital information vulnerable to hacks and costing taxpayers billions,” said Hurd, who serves as Chairman of the House Information Technology Subcommittee and has tirelessly championed technology updates in Congress. “By incentivizing the transition to modern technology, we will allow the government to harness cutting-edge technologies, use each dollar more efficiently, strengthen our digital infrastructure and improve government services for everyone. I thank my colleagues in both the House and Senate for working together to get the MGT Act one step closer to the finish line.” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) stated, “Senate passage of the Modernizing Government Technology Act is a major step forward in our goal of creating a more cost-efficient and digitally secure federal government. By leveraging new technologies, we will save taxpayers money and deliver a well-overdue update to our nation’s IT systems. Representative Will Hurd has been relentless in his work on this innovative policy solution that will benefit all Americans.” The MGT Act incentivizes the federal government to streamline their IT systems through a working capital fund, which is composed of the savings federal agencies earn when they update their technology by do things like streamlining IT systems, replacing legacy products and transitioning to cloud computing. This approach encourages modernization efforts and eliminates the traditional use-it or lose-it approach that has hindered our federal government for decades. Hurd’s legislation was passed in the House in May and is supported by the White House Office of American Innovation and industry leaders. In April, U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and Tom Udall (D-NM) introduced the Senate companion legislation, S. 990. “In light of the numerous data security issues that continue to threaten our federal government and American businesses, I’m pleased the Senate acted to prioritize the modernization of our alarmingly outdated federal IT systems,” said U.S. Senator Jerry Moran (R-Kan.). “The MGT Act is a critical step toward bringing our federal IT systems into the 21st century. The improved efficiencies included in the legislation will strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities and reduce long-term wasteful spending.” “The MGT Act is a perfect example of what we can accomplish when we seek common-sense solutions in a bipartisan way,” said U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-NM). “This major legislation to modernize the federal government’s grossly outdated IT systems will strengthen our national security and save taxpayers millions. The federal government currently spends over $80 billion on IT, but 75 percent of that money goes to maintaining old and out of date legacy systems. With the MGT Act’s flexible funding options, we can break that cycle and bring the federal government into the modern era— tackling dangerous cyber vulnerabilities and protecting the American people from increasingly severe cyberattacks, and empowering agencies to move forward with long-overdue projects to streamline how the federal government operates. I thank Senator Moran and Representative Hurd, and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and the Senate for their tireless work to ensure the government is getting better service at a better value for the American people.” “The bipartisan Modernizing Government Technology Act is a first step toward common sense solutions that upgrade our outdated technology infrastructure to make us safer, stronger and more secure,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL), ranking member of the IT Subcommittee. “This bill is long overdue. It’s 2017, it’s time to bring the next generation of technology and innovation to government IT to save costs, protect our citizens personal information and enhance our security.” “Modernizing the federal government isn’t a partisan issue, as we have seen in the adoption of FITARA and now with our work on the MGT Act. By leveraging the savings realized by FITARA, the MGT Act will help bring our aging federal IT into the 21st century. I am pleased that today’s action brings us one step closer to making the MGT Act a reality,” said U.S. Representative Gerald Connolly (D-VA). "PSC applauds the Senate’s action approving the MGT Act and the progress toward vital IT modernization,” said Alan Chvotkin, Executive Vice President and Counsel of PSC, the voice of the government technology and professional services industry. “The Senate’s actions take us closer to enactment, which will provide a dedicated funding stream for federal agencies to harness new technologies, reduce government costs and vulnerabilities, and improve efficiency and performance. We look forward to enactment of the MGT Act by Congress." “Ensuring that our government has the most up-to-date technology is a top priority for Dell, and we applaud Rep. Hurd for his continued efforts to advance the MGT Act through Congress,” said Steve Harris, Senior Vice President of Dell EMC Federal. “As the world continues to change at an unprecedented pace, the federal government must have modern IT systems that can adapt to better serve their constituents. We appreciate the Senate’s recognition of this need by including the MGT Act in the 2018 NDAA.” Trey Hodgkins, Senior Vice President for the Public Sector at the Information Technology Industry Council, added, “By passing the MGT Act, the Senate took an important step in updating our archaic government technology that currently leaves us vulnerable to cyberattacks. Couple that with the fact that we spend the majority of our $80 billion IT budget to maintain legacy systems, this bill is a win for taxpayers’ wallets while also protecting their information. We thank the Senators for passing this bill and look forward to continuing to work with the House to get this bill to the president’s desk.”
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Will Hurd that empowers the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to improve intelligence information sharing capabilities among its many component agencies. The DHS Data Framework Act codifies an effort at DHS to develop a data framework to incorporate all DHS component agency data related to homeland security, terrorist information, weapons of mass destruction, and national intelligence, into one system, thereby alleviating the current costly, cumbersome process of searching and vetting information against multiple databases with different log-ins, passwords, and legal restrictions. “Sixteen years after the 9/11 attacks by al-Qaeda terrorists on Homeland, most Americans would be dismayed that information-sharing stovepipes still exist,” said Hurd, who served as an undercover officer in the CIA for almost a decade. “The DHS Data Framework Act will allow DHS personnel to both share and vet information in a more efficient manner without undermining the security of sensitive information. DHS officials need to be able to quickly and safely share information in today’s fast-paced environment, and this bill provides the framework for that to happen without compromising our nation’s secrets.” The data framework created in the bill also will be replicated on a classified network to allow for more efficient classified analysis and vetting of law enforcement data against intelligence information.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd supported emergency disaster relief and recovery needs in response to Hurricane Harvey’s unprecedented flooding. “To recover from lives lost, thousands displaced, and billions of dollars in damage, Texas needs all hands on deck. Additionally as Irma heads towards Florida, we must be sure that our disaster response agencies have sufficient resources to save lives and minimize damage. We have a long road ahead and I am doing my part to provide much-needed relief to survivors, first responders, and all of those affected during this tremendous time of need. ” The bill will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to continue response and recovery efforts, and be prepared for any additional recovery efforts that may arise. It also includes funding to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners as they begin to rebuild. In addition, it provides funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Fund to support relief and restoration for housing and infrastructure in the disaster areas.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives to support emergency funding for disaster relief and recovery needs in response to Hurricane Harvey’s unprecedented flooding. “FEMA’s disaster response and relief efforts have no doubt saved the lives of many fellow Texans in the last two weeks. They have successfully aligned federal, state, and local agencies while seamlessly integrating private and non-profit partners into coordinated missions. As folks in Houston, Rockport, and many areas in Texas return home to rebuild their lives, they must be able to count on continued disaster recovery resources in the coming months. We have a long road ahead but I am confident that Texas will rebuild and be stronger than ever.” The bill will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to continue response and recovery efforts, and be prepared for any additional recovery efforts that may arise. It also includes funding to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners as they begin to rebuild.
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA. “There is no doubt that our immigration system is broken. Congress must provide a permanent, legislative solution for children brought here through no fault of their own. We should create immigration policies that strengthen our economy and keep Americans safe, which is why I look forward to working with my colleagues to make a permanent, legislative solution that allows people who have only known America as their home, to stay and continue contributing to our Nation's culture, economy and history.”
08.04.2017	PRESIDIO, TX – The Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) approved grant funding this week to repair the Presidio International Rail Bridge and South Orient Railroad, which extends from Presidio to San Angelo. With this funding, Presidio can continue serve as a pillar of Texas trade, benefitting both the border region and the State’s economy. U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-Texas) championed this initiative to TxDOT and local officials to ensure the line’s rehabilitation and improved operations, and safety. “Cross-border trade is the lifeblood of many communities in my district. These infrastructure improvements will create jobs and facilitate the flow of goods and services through the region,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “As one of five rail border crossings between Texas and Mexico, these repairs are vital to Texas’ economy.” “Representative Hurd worked hard on our behalf to support our efforts to be awarded these monies from the USDOT,” said Tryon Lewis, Texas Transportation Commission Chairman. “ The improvements we make to the rail line and the reconstruction of the rail bridge will assure we can continue to support the industries in Texas that rely on deliveries provided by the South Orient Railroad,” Lewis said. "Presidio is very grateful to be receiving the FASTLANE 2017 Grant which will provide $7 million in urgently needed repairs to the international rail bridge at Presidio, as well as other repairs for the 72-mile span of rail line from Presidio to the Paisano Junction, near Alpine, Texas. Once completed, Presidio will once again be able to utilize the South Orient Railroad as an economic development tool for the community, as well as facilitating international commerce at the U.S./Mexico border here,” said Presidio Mayor John Ferguson. “Our sincere thanks to Congressman Will Hurd on his timely assistance in making this grant a reality and for his continuing work on behalf our community that also recently included receiving of the Presidential Permit for the International Bridge expansion at Presidio. Presidio sincerely thanks you, Congressman Hurd!"
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) introduced the Secure Miles with All Resources and Technology (SMART) Act with Representatives Henry Cuellar (D-TX), David G. Valadao (R-CA), Steve Knight (R-CA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Keith Rothfus (R-PA) to ensure that the United States implements the most effective and fiscally-responsible strategy to achieve operational control of our southern border. “Violent drug cartels are using more modern technology to breach our border than what we are using to secure it. We can’t double down on a Third Century approach to solve 21st Century problems if we want a viable long-term solution,” said Hurd who represents over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “We need a Smart Wall that uses high-tech resources like sensors, radar, LIDAR, fiber optics, drones and cameras to detect and then track incursions across our border so we can deploy efficiently our most important resource, the men and women of Border Patrol to perform the most difficult task -- interdiction. With a Smart Wall, we can have a more secure border at a fraction of the cost – that can be implemented and fully operational within a year. It’s time to harness American innovation on this most important National Security challenge and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this a reality.” Under the SMART ACT, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would be mandated to deploy the most practical and effective border security technologies available to achieve situational awareness and operational control of our border. The Secretary would also be required to submit a comprehensive border security strategy to Congress that lists all known physical barriers, technologies, tools, and other devices that can be utilized along the southern border, including a detailed accounting of the aforementioned measures selected for each linear mile of the border and a cost justification for each such measure. Additionally, the SMART Act authorizes $110 million to increase coordination and collaboration between Customs and Border Patrol and State, county, tribal, and other governmental law enforcement entities that support border security operations. Lastly, in response to the dire need to upgrade communication technology along the border, the bill creates a two-year grant program to improve emergency communications in the southern border region, including multi-band radios and upgrades from outdated or poorly functioning communication networks. The National Border Patrol Council (NBPC), the exclusive representative of approximately 18,000 Border Patrol Agents supports the SMART Act. President of NBPC Brandon Judd stated, "To secure the border and keep America safe, we need technology, infrastructure, and manpower." He added, "The Secure Miles with All Resources and Technology Act will help our agents counter the sophisticated international drug cartels that poison our communities with meth, heroin, and other dangerous drugs. We thank Representative Hurd for his leadership on this issue and encourage Congress to pass this important piece legislation without delay." “This bill provides a pragmatic approach to secure our borders,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “It calls on DHS to deploy the most effective security technology - such as sensors, aerostats, and cameras - and rather than building walls to meet campaign promises, it takes a measured approach by directing DHS, in conjunction with state and local agencies, to conduct a comprehensive study and analysis of the different tools and solutions available to provide security on our borders. I live on the border and know personally the needs of our U.S. Border Patrol and our Homeland Security agents. A giant wall is nothing more than a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century problem. Further, this bill calls on DHS to take a greater role in controlling the invasive Carrizo cane along our river which presents a huge security risk for our border agents, as well as presenting grave environmental impacts. I thank my colleagues for working with me on these issues.” “Enhanced border security is an issue fundamental to our national security. We need to know who, and what, is coming across our border. Improving border security is vital to preventing drugs, diseased crops, and weapons from being smuggled into the United States illegally. It is also essential in keeping known criminals and suspected terrorists from entering the United States. The SMART Act will ensure we utilize the most innovated technology to secure and protect our nation,” said Congressman David G. Valadao (CA-21).
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, which determines funding levels and priorities for our nation’s common defense. It rebuilds our military, increases funding for research and development, streamlines the acquisitions of goods and services to better support service members and their families, and fully funds a well-deserved pay raise for our troops. “Texas is home to over 120,000 active duty military members and over 1.6 million proud veterans. The men and women who keep us safe are our country’s most valuable assets, and we have a responsibility to provide them the resources, care and pay raise they need, earned, and deserve,” said Hurd, who served alongside men and women in uniform during his decade of service in the CIA. “This bill makes it clear to our friends and enemies that our nation is ready to defend itself against terrorists and nuclear threats, while taking care of the service members who make enormous sacrifices each day.” The NDAA was approved in the House and has been sent to the Senate.
07.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd is pleased to announce that the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill includes $10 million in federal reimbursement for the Mission Reach Project in Bexar Country through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Fiscal Year 2018 Work Plan. The project is one of only two across the nation receiving federal reimbursement in this appropriations bill, demonstrating the arduous work put forth by Congressman Hurd to secure the funds. “The Mission Reach project has already produced tremendous cultural and economic gains, not just for the Southside – but for all of San Antonio – by connecting all five UNESCO-recognized Spanish Missions with hike and bike trails, and attracting millions in private-sector development. I am proud to have worked with local leaders to secure reimbursement year after year that I have been in Congress, after they fought for so long without receiving a dime of what they were promised. It’s important to me that the communities across TX-23 know that I will fight on their behalf and continue to deliver,” said Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park. “This is great news,” said Suzanne Scott, San Antonio River Authority’s General Manager. “I appreciate Congressman Hurd’s leadership and diligence in working with Chairman Simpson to include the Mission Reach reimbursement in the FY 18 House Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. I also wish to thank Congressman Cuellar for his work on the Appropriations Committee and the entire San Antonio delegation who have supported the reimbursement. This is a tremendous first step toward having the funding included in the Corps FY’18 Work Plan and we look forward to working closely with the delegation to make that happen.” The Mission Reach habitat conservation and development project has generated economic, environmental and community activity in an area that had previously been underutilized. The Energy and Water Appropriations bill is expected to be approved in the House Appropriations Committee this week.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON— Congressman Will Hurd issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s withdrawal of the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: "The Obama Administration's WOTUS rule was a direct violation of Americans’ private property rights. It would have placed unnecessary burdens on farmers, ranchers, and small business owners across Texas, and negatively impacted our economy. I applaud the Trump Administration for rolling back this burdensome regulation and reversing the federal land grab."
06.09.2017	Washington, D.C.- Recently, U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Dr. David J. Shulkin announced his decision to implement the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as the Department of Defense (DoD), in an effort to synchronize patients’ healthcare records once they leave the military. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who has advocated for EHR interoperability, released the following statement. “It is about time that the Departments use one common system to enable seamless care, without the frustrations of exchanging and reconciling data between two separate systems. Having incompatible EHR systems have created very real problems for our veterans like lapses in treatment and doctors missing documented patient concerns. Furthermore, in the year 2017, our nation’s veterans should not have to print out their health records when they leave the military and manually show the paperwork to their doctors. “I’ve worked hard to use my chairmanship of the Information Technology Subcommittee to highlight the challenges and opportunities of improving health IT, including convening a number of public hears to hold the VA accountable. From wearable devices, to electronic health records and data analytics, innovators are changing the way we monitor and participate in the care we receive. It should be no different with our veterans. I commend the VA’s decision to adopt the same EHR system as DoD, and remain cautiously optimistic that it will result in health care improvements for our nation's veterans and will continue to hold both departments accountable. We stiffll have a long way to go, but this is a significant step in the right direction. If we can do this right, we can set a new standard for the rest of the world.”
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday after the House of Representatives passed the Financial CHOICE Act to replace Dodd-Frank, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “Through duplicative regulations and excessive red tape, Dodd-Frank created an uneven playing field between large financial institutions and community banks and credit unions, who provide nearly half of all small loans to businesses and farmers. Tightening of lending and closures of community financial institutions across my district, as a result, have negatively impacted access to capital for the farmers, ranchers and small business owners in my district. The Financial CHOICE Act replaces the complex set of regulations, abused by Wall Street, so that small community banks aren’t treated with a one-size-fits-all solution and can continue providing local business owners with competitive financial services and access to the capital they need.”
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined a bipartisan group of 11 Members of Congress to Mexico City Monday for the U.S.-Mexico Interparliamentary Group (IPG) meeting. While in Mexico, the group along with 15 Members of Mexico’s Congress, were inaugurated into the 53rd US-Mexico Interparliamentary Group and met with their counterparts to discuss our trade relationship, migration and human safety, national security cooperation and a 21st Century border. “We have an enormous opportunity to work with our partners in Mexico to enhance the physical and economic security of people on both sides of the border,” said Hurd, who represents more miles of the U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “In a district that is both heavily dependent on cross-border trade and ground zero for energy production, I am especially optimistic about modernizing NAFTA to account for the digital marketplace and promoting North American Energy Security. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure Texans benefit from NAFTA renegotiation.” During the meeting, members of the 53rd IPG also approved a Joint Declaration affirming the mutual benefits of shared understanding, respect, and cooperation in the areas of Immigration and Human Safety, Trade and Economic Relations, National Security, and a 21st Century Border. Read the full Joint Declaration here. Hurd was appointed to the IPG in February, which is tasked with fostering dialogue between members of the United States’ and Mexican legislative bodies on issues of bilateral importance. This week’s bipartisan delegation was led by House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX).
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd has announced that he will serve as one of the four inaugural co-chairs of the new Congressional Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) Caucus, which serves to ensure that the 472 HSI’s in the United States are advocated for in Congress. The 23rd Congressional District of Texas, which Hurd represents, contains five HSI’s, including Southwest Junior College in Uvalde; Sul Ross State University in Alpine; and Palo Alto College, Baptist University of the Américas and Texas A&M University of San Antonio, which are located in San Antonio. In addition, the University of Texas San Antonio and University of Texas El Paso are located outside of the District but also serve many students from the 23rd Congressional District. “Ensuring access to educational opportunities will strengthen the economy, drive technological advancement , and allow citizens to overcome socioeconomic challenges that are influenced by education inequality.” said Hurd, whose district is roughly 70% Hispanic. “HSI’s are committed to encouraging more Hispanic students to complete their education and become a valuable part of today’s workforce, and I am proud to represent these institutions and the communities that they serve as co-chair of the Congressional HSI Caucus.” “The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) is honored that Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) has enthusiastically agreed to become one of the four inaugural co-chairs of the new, bipartisan Congressional Hispanic-Serving Institution’s (HSI) Caucus in the 115th Congress. He will join three other members of the House of Representatives as co-chairs: Reps. Susan Davis (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL),” said HACU President and CEO Antonio R. Flores. “The Congressional HSI Caucus will be an invaluable platform to engage Congress in a dialogue about leveling the playing field for HSIs and Hispanic higher education. We look forward to working with Rep. Hurd to recruit additional members, and to increase federal resources for the growing number of HSIs – now numbering 472,” added Flores. John Sharp, Chancellor of The Texas A&M University System, congratulated U.S. Rep. Will Hurd on his selection to co-chair the newly re-established Congressional Hispanic Serving Institution Caucus. “As home to five federally-designated Hispanic Servicing Institutions – and four more emerging HSIs – the Texas A&M System is keenly aware of our mission to serve the diverse population of our great state. The federal government plays an important role in helping these students gain access, and helping these institutions get additional resources to help serve these students. Aggie Will Hurd is an important voice for these institutions in the halls of Congress, and this is an important effort among his peers.” “Congratulations to Representative Hurd on his appointment as co-chair of the HSI Congressional Caucus. As the representative of one of the three Hispanic Serving Institutions in our System, Rep. Hurd’s leadership in the HSI Caucus will greatly benefit the tens of thousands of students who are working to improve their lives by pursuing degrees at our member institutions,” concluded Brian McCall, Chancellor of the Texas State University System, which includes Sul Ross University in Hurd's district.
06.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Will Hurd (TX-23) released the following statements after their bipartisan legislation, the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act, was signed into law by President Trump today. The legislation prioritizes U.S. Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant applications of state and local law enforcement agencies who use that funding to hire military veterans. The bill is part of a joint initiative led by Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Hurd, who announced their plans to introduce companion bills in both the House and Senate at an event with the San Antonio Police Department and Bexar County Sheriff’s Office in late 2016. The legislation was also cosponsored by U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16). “This law will support our military veterans’ transition to civilian life and help the folks charged with protecting our communities,” said Sen. Cornyn. “By prioritizing existing federal funding, our state and local law enforcement partners will get the highly trained individuals they need to keep our communities safe, while giving our veterans an opportunity to continue serving their country.” “This is just one of the many ways I am committed to giving back to the veteran community. I was proud to lead this legislation in the House to provide an opportunity for veterans to continue their service in their local communities after they transition out of the military,” said Rep. Hurd, who served alongside members of the Armed Forces during his nearly decade of service in the CIA. “With Fort Bliss, Joint Base San Antonio and Laughlin Air Force Base all having a presence in TX-23, this has a significant impact for my constituents. We should capitalize on these existing relationships to further strengthen our neighborhoods. From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank all our men in women in uniform for your willingness to serve your country and community.” “U.S. Representative Hurd and Senator Cornyn’s bill will help boost our recruitment efforts and provide our military veterans with more opportunities to become a San Antonio police officer,” said San Antonio Police Chief William McManus. Earlier this year, Sen. Cornyn held separate roundtables with the Houston Police Department and the Fort Worth Police Department, which both included several officers who had transitioned from the military, to discuss local efforts to hire more veterans for law enforcement and how this bill can help. This bill is Hurd's 10th piece of legislation to be signed into law since taking office in 2015.
06.01.2017	SAN ANTONIO, TX - After introducing bipartisan legislation last week that will jumpstart overdue maintenance projects in National Parks, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, along with the National Parks Conservation Association and San Antonio Missions staff, hosted a behind-the-scenes tour of Mission San Jose in San Antonio to view the deferred maintenance projects that could be alleviated by Hurd’s bill. During the tour, the group viewed examples of deferred maintenance needed to preserve the original foundation of the Mission walls and rafters. With flooding and humidity, the walls of the rooms swell and move, which causes cracks in the rooms and foundation. Hurd’s National Park Service Legacy Act would provide investments directed toward reducing the $11.3 billion backlog the National Park Service faces to repair roads, visitor facilities, trails, and other park structures. This bill demonstrates that the call for Congress to fix our aging parks is being heard, and has been endorsed by park champions like the National Parks Conservation Association, Pew Charitable Trusts, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Upon viewing some of the backlogged maintenance projects at Mission San Jose, Hurd, County Judge Nelson Wolff, City of San Antonio Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran, and Senior Director of Regional Operations for the National Parks Conservation Association Suzanne Dixon held a press conference to discuss the legislation and its impact on National Parks nationwide. “National Parks are a part of the American experience and the seven in my district, including Big Bend and the San Antonio Missions, provide immeasurable cultural, environmental and economic benefits. We have a responsibility as a nation to care for these treasures, yet in Texas alone, there are roughly $147 million in backlogged National Park maintenance projects. These are often the less glamorous projects like crumbling roads, leaky plumbing, and adequate bathroom facilities that keep these spaces accessible for everyone,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who additionally helped secure $10 million in federal reimbursement for Mission Reach earlier this week. “This bill will provide more flexible financing options and revenue sources so that our parks can remain beautiful and accessible for future generations of park-goers to enjoy.” Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who also spoke at the press conference said, "Congressman Hurd's National Parks maintenance bill would help Bexar County protect its important cultural assets. We would like to thank Congressman Hurd for recognizing the historical and economic value of our Spanish colonial missions." “The San Antonio Missions are treasures that provide immeasurable cultural, historical, and economic value to the Southside and the city of San Antonio as a whole. As we inch towards our Tricentennial, it is more important than ever that we care for them properly,” said City of San Antonio District 3 Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran. “We are acutely aware of the deferred maintenance needs. I am grateful that Representative Hurd introduced legislation to help us tackle this issue and protect our National Parks.” "National parks are valuable for so many reasons. They are economic engines for gateway communities, provide recreational opportunities for hundreds of millions of people, and protect our country's natural and cultural heritage,” said Suzanne Dixon, Senior Director, Regional Operations of the National Parks Conservation Association, who introduced Hurd and was instrumental in the San Antonio Missions becoming UNESCO World Heritage ranked. “Yet for far too long, our parks have been underfunded. So we shouldn't be surprised that, as a result, they're facing a $11.3 billion maintenance backlog. This backlog will only continue to grow unless we take action. This bipartisan, bicameral proposal makes a strong investment that our parks desperately need and deserve. Parks unify people, and Congress should be no different. Lawmakers should seize this opportunity, put forth by Representatives Hurd, Kilmer, Hanabusa, and Reichert, to help fix our parks and recognize the value they provide."
06.01.2017	PRESIDIO, TX - The Presidential Permit for the Presidio-Ojinaga infrastructure project in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas was approved this week, indicating final approval of a long and tedious process to widen the local Port of Entry one lane in either direction to accommodate 18-wheelers. Due to the efforts of Congressman Will Hurd alongside local officials, the long-planned expansion initiative will strengthen cross-border trade between the U.S. and Mexico and position Presidio as an efficient and cost-effective transit hub for imports and exports. Receiving the permit is the last hurdle before construction may begin. “Cross-border trade is the lifeblood of many communities in my district, including Presidio. These infrastructure improvements will create jobs, reduce arduous border wait times, and facilitate the flow of goods and services through the region,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “This will have a huge economic impact on the hardworking folks in Presidio and the surrounding farmers and ranchers who rely on this port of entry to feed their families. I am thrilled to see this project cross the finish line, and look forward to capitalizing on this achievement by tackling other projects in support of this trade route.” “We are most grateful to Congressman Hurd for all his assistance in making sure this was taken care of in a timely manner. This will greatly benefit our community,” said Presidio Mayor John Ferguson about the project. “This is a great development for the people of Texas and a great tool to help TxDOT advance projects at the border,” said Texas Transportation Chairman Tryon Lewis. “Dollars dedicated to border projects mean increased trade.” Brad Newton, Executive Director of the Presidio Municipal Development District expressed gratitude to all of those involved. “The City of Presidio will benefit for years to come with the expansion of the Presidio-Ojinaga International Bridge,” Newton said. “Being the only international crossing in a stretch that makes up 20 percent of the US-Mexico Border with Mexico, Presidio is looking forward to new business and jobs to locate here. The issuance of the Presidential Permit is the needed catalyst to ignite steady growth in our local economy. I appreciate and thank all the men and women who helped us get this historic document in place.” “Presidio International Port Authority is very grateful for all the help of so many local, state, federal, and binational agencies and people that have worked so hard to make this Presidential permit project a success. We look forward to continue working with Local, State, Federal and Binational agencies in the future to build the Presidio Port into one of the most efficient and modern ports between the United States and Mexico,” added Jake Giesbrecht of the Presidio International Port Authority.
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—In the wake of the devastating terrorist attack in Manchester, England, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a former undercover-CIA officer who served for almost a decade overseas re-introduced two national security bills designed to prevent terrorists from traveling undetected to and from Western countries. The Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act will enhance visa screening procedures at U.S. Embassy posts overseas, while the Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act authorizes the U.S. to develop and share open-source software that will help our allies vet travelers and identify known or suspected terrorists. Congressman Hurd introduced both bills during the previous Congress in response to vulnerabilities discovered during his tenure on the Homeland Security Committee’s Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. “Since 2013, there have been 37 ISIS-linked plots to attack the U.S., and another 78 in Europe. The Manchester attack was a horrific reminder that security gaps are being exploited by extremists, putting the U.S. and our allies in constant danger. As terrorist threats against Americans remain high, we must respond by eliminating visa loopholes, strengthening screening measures, and deploying trained personnel to properly vet visa applicants overseas,” said Hurd, who sits on the House Committees on Intelligence and Oversight and Government Reform. We cannot afford to let terrorists exploit our vulnerabilities and slip through the cracks. By assisting our allies and closing these loopholes, we can keep terrorists on the run and off our shores.”
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) introduced a bipartisan bill to jump start overdue maintenance projects in national parks. The National Park Service Legacy Act would provide investments that would go toward reducing the more than $11 billion backlog the National Park Service faces to repair roads, visitor facilities, trails, and other park structures. Similar legislation was previously introduced by Senators Warner (D-VA) and Portman (R-OH). The act would address the backlog by distributing currently unassigned federal mineral revenues back into a restoration fund. It has been endorsed by the National Parks Conservation Association, Pew Charitable Trusts, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “National Parks are a part of the American experience and the seven in my district, including Big Bend and the San Antonio Missions, provide immeasurable cultural, environmental and economic benefits. We have a responsibility as a nation to care for these treasures, yet in Texas alone, there are roughly $147 million in backlogged National Park maintenance projects,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “This bill will provide more flexible financing options and revenue sources so that our parks can remain beautiful and accessible for future generations of park-goers to enjoy.” “I grew up near Olympic National Park and gained an appreciation for how much our national parks do to captivate visitors and create jobs,” said Kilmer. “But many of our most iconic landscapes and historical buildings are falling into disrepair. I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort that will be an economic boost to rural communities and keep our parks accessible for future generations.” “America’s National Parks are irreplaceable public treasures that must be maintained for future generations,” said Hanabusa. “With deferred maintenance costs increasing annually relative to past appropriations, Congress must find new and novel revenue streams to preserve these critical lands and habitats for the enjoyment of all. The bipartisan National Park Service Legacy Act is the right solution at the right time and I thank my colleagues, Representatives Kilmer, Hurd and Reichert, for their vision and determination to address deferred maintenance in our national parks.” “National parks are valuable for so many reasons. They are economic engines for gateway communities, provide recreational opportunities for hundreds of millions of people, and protect our country’s natural and cultural heritage. Yet for far too long, our parks have been underfunded. So we shouldn’t be surprised that, as a result, they’re facing a $12 billion maintenance backlog. Buildings are crumbling, roads need repairs, trails are overgrown, and aging sewer systems are at risk of failing. This backlog will only continue to grow unless we take action. This bipartisan, bicameral proposal makes a strong investment that our parks desperately need and deserve. Parks unify people, and Congress should be no different. Lawmakers should seize this opportunity, put forth by Representatives Hurd, Kilmer, Hanabusa, and Reichert, to help fix our parks and recognize the value they provide,” said Theresa Pierno, President and CEO, National Parks Conservation Association. “We commend Representatives Hurd, Kilmer, Hanabusa and Reichert for introducing bipartisan legislation that will help fund the much needed repair and preservation of historic and cultural resources in our national parks,” said Stephanie Meeks, president and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “From Texas’ San Antonio Missions National Historical Park to Olympic National Park in Washington, historic buildings and sites at our national parks and monuments tell the story of America. Along with the Senate companion bill introduced by Senators Mark Warner and Rob Portman, this legislation will address the almost $12 billion critical maintenance backlog plaguing our national parks and allow these special places to continue to tell our stories to future generations of Americans.” “This bill proves that the call for Congress to fix our aging parks is being heard. More than 75 municipalities have passed resolutions asking Congress to restore our park infrastructure. And more than 1,800 organizations, businesses, associations, chambers of commerce, and elected officials have signed a letter urging congressional lawmakers to provide dedicated funding to repair the national parks by reducing the size of their deferred maintenance backlog,” said Marcia Argust, director of The Pew Charitable Trusts’ Restore America’s Parks Project. Founded in 1916, the National Park Service (NPS) is responsible for managing more than 84 million acres comprised of over 400 significant cultural, historic, and natural areas across all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and four territories.
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C.- A consistent champion of the U.S.-Mexico partnership, today U.S. Representative Will Hurd reaffirmed his commitment to fostering the relationship with bipartisan legislation. The resolution, introduced alongside Homeland Security Chair Michael McCaul (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Eliot Engel (D-NY), supports the U.S.' continued commitment to a partnership based on mutual respect and bilateral cooperation on security issues and trade. “As the Representative of several border communities, and the largest stretch of US-Mexico Border in Congress, I recognize the unique relationship the United States shares with Mexico. I have made it a priority since being elected to foster understanding with my colleagues in Washington and to increase economic opportunity on both sides of the border. I have long said that we should view the border as a middle, not an edge, and I am committed to continuing this work in the years to come,” said Hurd. “The renegotiation of NAFTA should be an exciting opportunity for both our countries. I will continue to work with my Mexican counterparts to develop mutually beneficial policy that strengthens our economies and keeps our communities safe. I look forward to joining Chairman McCaul and my fellow US-Mexico Interparliamentary Group Members in Mexico City early next month to continue this important dialogue between our two nations.”
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding the Administration’s notification to Congress of their intent to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement: “Trade is the lifeblood of many communities in my district, including El Paso, Del Rio and Eagle Pass. The U.S., Mexico and Canada are not competitors, but partners who build things together. It is now more important than ever that we strengthen our relationship as allies and partners, so we can work together to increase economic opportunities on both sides of the border,” said Congressman Will Hurd. “I believe we have a real opportunity to modernize and improve North American Competitiveness in the rest of the world through an upgrade of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). I look forward to working with my colleagues and counterparts to develop mutually beneficial policy that strengthens the economy and keeps Americans safe.”
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding reports that former FBI Director James Comey kept a series of memos detailing allegations of the President’s attempts to influence the FBI’s investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn. “Last week I stated the timing of FBI Director James Comey’s firing was troubling. Even more troubling, however, are reports that just months before his firing, James Comey—a man who in spite of our disagreements, I have the utmost respect for – may have come under pressure by the President in an attempt to influence an ongoing FBI investigation. “In order to determine the veracity of these reports, I fully support Chairman Chaffetz’s request for the FBI to turn over all memos and related material to the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. I also support his request for former Director Comey to appear before the committee and testify under oath if necessary. These are the important first steps to determine whether a special prosecutor is necessary.”
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives took a major step toward strengthening digital infrastructure by approving a bipartisan federal IT reform package. The Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act, introduced by U.S. Representative Will Hurd, will reduce wasteful spending on outdated IT systems and enhance information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to modern technology like cloud computing. “As technology becomes more and more integrated into our lives – our institutions must keep pace. I’ve been fighting to get this bill signed into law because the American people deserve a government that is resilient and responsive to them,” said Hurd who has championed modernization efforts in Congress and represents an emerging tech and cybersecurity sector in San Antonio. “The MGT Act will enhance cybersecurity, increase government accountability and help government be more efficient in serving the American people.” Identical bipartisan legislation has been introduced by Senators Gerry Moran (R-KS) and Tom Udall (D-NM) in the Senate, and is expected to move to the President’s desk in upcoming weeks. “I applaud the House for moving so quickly to pass this common sense and bipartisan bill. The Modernizing Government Technology Act is the first major step toward upgrading our outdated IT infrastructure; a process that will make us safer, stronger and more secure,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL), ranking member of the IT Subcommittee. “This bill is the result of bipartisan cooperation and countless hours of hard work. I thank Whip Hoyer and Chairman Hurd for their leadership and thank my staff and the subcommittee staff for their sleepless nights and tireless effort on this bill. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to quickly pass this bill and begin implementing its important reforms. It’s 2017, it’s past time to cut costs, protect our citizens’ personal information and enhance cybersecurity by modernizing our technology.” “I am pleased the MGT Act has once again passed the House and is now one step closer to becoming law,” said Congressman Gerald Connolly (D-VA). “The current patchwork of outdated, legacy IT systems is simply unsustainable in the current cyber climate. By leveraging the savings created by FITARA, our legislation will help transition federal IT procurement towards 21st century technologies.” Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) who started the Innovation Initiative in Congress said, “Will Hurd’s legislation – the Modernizing Government Technology Act – is the definition of what the Innovation Initiative is about – modernizing government so it works securely – cost-effectively – and the way the American people expect it to work.” “Last week’s worldwide ransomware attack, which impacted hundreds of thousands of computers in more than 150 countries across the globe, reminds us just how critical bringing federal government IT into the 21st century is to keep Americans and our valuable data protected,” said Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS), chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance and Data Security. “In addition to its national security improvements, this legislation would also save billions of taxpayer dollars in the long-term by reducing wasteful spending and making much-needed reforms to our procurement practices.” “As we have seen just this week with the ‘WannaCry’ attack, global cyberattacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated and pose a complex and serious threat to our national security. But the federal government continues to rely on grossly outdated IT systems that make us vulnerable to such damaging cyberattacks,” Senator Tom Udall (D-NM) said. “I welcome House passage of this bipartisan legislation, which will help federal agencies to retire old systems and invest in new and critical technologies. Maintaining old IT systems is a security risk and costs taxpayers billions of dollars each year. In the Senate, I’ll fight to pass this bill and see it signed into law, to ensure that our government is getting better service at a better value for American taxpayers.” “The MGT Act is needed to break the cycle that traps the government in funding outdated IT systems that are a risk to our national security instead of investing in the new technologies it needs to ensure cybersecurity,” said Trey Hodgkins, Senior Vice President for Public Sector at the IT Alliance for Public Sector (ITAPS), a division of technology industry trade group ITI. “The Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) favorable score confirms that the MGT Act can be an effective tool to incentivize federal government IT modernization without creating new burdens for the taxpayer. We hope the House’s strong bipartisan approval of the bill and the CBO score validating the MGT's potential compels the Senate to pass this important national security measure.” “Federal agencies now spend a disproportionate share of their IT budgets simply to maintain inefficient and costly legacy systems that are decades behind modern technologies in terms of capabilities and network security,” said Professional Services Council (PSC) President & CEO David Berteau. “The MGT Act will make a critical investment in modernizing the government’s IT infrastructure to help limit cybersecurity vulnerabilities inherent in current computer systems and increase the effectiveness of government services and missions.” “Ensuring that our government has the most up-to-date technology is a top priority for Dell and we congratulate Rep. Hurd on passage of the Modernizing Government Technology Act,” said Steve Harris, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Dell EMC Federal. “As the world continues to change at an unprecedented pace, the federal government must have modern IT systems that can adapt to better serve their constituents. We look forward to working Rep. Hurd and the 115th Congress to ensure passage of this critical piece of legislation.”
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Last night, the President signed the Modernizing Government Travel Act into law, demonstrating a major win for the sharing economy. Thanks to a bi-partisan effort led by Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX) and Seth Moulton (D-MA), federal employees can now use ridesharing services like Uber, Lyft and even bike-share for reimbursable work-related travel. “This bill will help our government keep pace with the private sector and save taxpayer dollars,” said Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “Modernizing government into the 21st Century is something that we all can agree on and I am grateful that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and the White House for lending their support.” “Today, we showed that despite tremendous partisanship and gridlock in Washington, progress is still possible,” said Moulton. “This bipartisan bill will make government travel more efficient and, as a result, save taxpayer dollars. We need more examples of Democrats and Republicans coming together to get things done for the American people.” Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber said, "We appreciate all of the hard work the sponsors have done to pass the Modernizing Government Travel Act and make it easier for federal employees to get from point A to point B in an efficient and cost-effective way. Uber looks forward to providing the same reliable and convenient transportation solutions to federal employees while they're working as we do for people around the world." Lyft’s Vice President for Government Affairs Joseph Okpaku said, "Ridesharing services like Lyft are providing benefits to individuals and communities across the country. By allowing federal workers to enjoy those benefits while traveling, this law will promote government efficiency and save taxpayers money."
05.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – In commemoration of National Police Week, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Senator John Cornyn’s and Representative Will Hurd’s American Law Enforcement Heroes Act, which will incentivize state and local governments to hire veterans as law enforcement officers. The bill is part of a joint-initiative led by Rep. Hurd and Senator John Cornyn, who announced their plans to introduce companion bills in both the House and Senate at an event with City of San Antonio and Bexar Country law enforcement officers in late 2016. The bill is expected to pass the Senate later this week, sending it to the President’s desk for his signature. Modeled after an expired program called Troops to COPS, which helped almost 1,000 veterans in the late 1990s, the legislation aims to better transition our nation’s veterans from serving their country in one uniform to serving their local communities in another. “My district is home to more than 4,600 active duty and 45,000 military veterans, and this bill provides an opportunity for them to continue their service at home. We owe our freedom to these men and women, and must do a better job facilitating their transition into meaningful civilian careers,” said Hurd, who served along members of the Armed Forces during his nearly decade of service in the CIA. “I am proud to give back to the veteran community and grateful for Senator Cornyn’s leadership getting the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act across the finish line. Our veterans deserve nothing less.” “This legislation is good for military veterans, good for law enforcement, and good for the communities they are charged with protecting,” Sen. Cornyn said. “I applaud this bipartisan effort to support our veterans by helping them find jobs in law enforcement agencies across the country." The bill is expected to be signed into law by the President this week.
05.10.2017	While on a fact-finding mission to Ukraine learning about Russian active measures in Eastern Europe, Congressman Will Hurd who sits on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued the following statement regarding the recent firing of FBI Director James Comey: "While I understand the desire to maintain the public trust in the FBI, the timing of James Comey's firing is troubling, especially since the Justice Department Inspector General was conducting an independent investigation into Comey's handling of the Clinton email case. "Due to the ongoing criminal investigation into Russian interference in our elections, I'm concerned that Comey’s firing is going to create new concerns around the public trust in the Department of Justice. This just highlights the need for the House of Representatives’ investigation of Russian interference in our elections to continue to move forward in a thorough and bipartisan way. I also have complete confidence in the men and women of the FBI to continue ongoing investigations. "At a time when our adversaries around the globe pose unprecedented threats to our national security and undertake extraordinary efforts to undermine our democratic institutions, I urge the President to quickly nominate a new Director. There is no doubt in my mind that the new head of the FBI must be someone who is eminently respected, and can quickly be confirmed by the Senate, in order to continue to confront the grave challenges facing our nation. "While Director Comey and I have disagreed in the past, I have always maintained and will continue to have the utmost respect for his public service, and most importantly his commitment to protecting this country."
05.04.2017	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Will Hurd has released the following statement: "Since the implementation of Obamacare, I’ve told my constituents that the only meaningful metric when it comes to healthcare is actual access to quality, affordable care – not just health insurance. While the goal of Obamacare was to make healthcare more accessible and more affordable, it has done just the opposite. Likewise, while the goal of the American Health Care Act was to combat the skyrocketing premiums and outrageous deductibles millions of Americans face, it too, falls short. "We must provide relief, but unfortunately, the American Health Care Act (AHCA) in its current form does not address the concerns of many of my constituents, including adequate protections for those with pre-existing conditions and the challenges faced by rural healthcare providers. I am unable to turn my back on these vulnerable populations because I believe we can and must do better for the American people. "I will not support the AHCA in its current form and hope that we can continue making improvements to fix our broken healthcare system."
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday evening, the Senate approved the Modernizing Government Travel Act, sending the 21st Century legislation to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The bi-partisan effort led by Representatives Will Hurd (R-Texas) and Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) will allow federal employees to be reimbursed for ride sharing services such as Uber, Lyft, and bike-share programs when traveling on official business. “This bill will finally move the needle toward a more advanced and responsive government, and make the public sector more attractive when attracting top talent,” said Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “It creates greater flexibility, saves taxpayer dollars, and allows federal agencies to catch up with the 21st century economy.” “We need to ensure that cost-effective transportation options are available to the thousands of federal employees in Massachusetts, and across the country, on official travel,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “That’s exactly what this bipartisan bill does. By passing it today and sending it to the president’s desk, the Senate has agreed to our idea that we can save taxpayer dollars by bringing government travel into the sharing economy.” "We applaud the passage of legislation that embraces transportation network companies (TNCs), which are benefiting communities across the country," said Joseph Okpaku, Lyft's Vice President of Government Relations. "Allowing federal workers to choose innovative transportation solutions like Lyft when traveling for work is a great way to encourage more efficient use of resources and ensure that government workers have access to safe, affordable, and reliable transportation options." "We appreciate all of the hard work the sponsors have done to pass The Modernizing Government Act and make it easier for federal employees to get from point A to point B in an efficient and cost effective way,” said Niki Christoff, Uber’s Head of Federal Affairs. “Uber looks forward to providing the same reliable and convenient transportation solutions to federal employees while they're working as we do for people around the world."
05.02.2017	Del Rio, TX- Commercial flights in Del Rio are taking off again. Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd celebrated the return of commercial airline service to Del Rio International Airport by taking the first flight, on what will be weekly air service, from Del Rio to Dallas on Texas Sky Airline. Today’s flight was the culmination of two years of hard work alongside local leadership to get commercial flights back to Del Rio. “When the City first came to my office requesting help to restore commercial airline service in Del Rio, we knew we had our work cut out for us. We appealed to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to prevent the removal of their personnel and equipment. Ultimately, it took an actual act of Congress to make this a reality. Partnering with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, we introduced the TSA Fairness Act to make sure that small airports like the one in Del Rio are treated fairly. Without the proper security, commercial airlines could not service the airport,” said Hurd. This legislation passed the House unanimously. Several days after passage of the bill, TSA agreed to reestablish screening at Del Rio International Airport. Hurd’s office continued to work closely with the City of Del Rio to attract an airline and make commercial flight service a reality. “I am proud to work with the community on a project that will have tremendous economic, social, and safety benefits for Del Rio,” added Hurd. “The City of Del Rio is eternally grateful to Congressman Hurd for his efforts in assisting our city to restore air service to our community. We truly believe that the new air service will mark a new era of growth and economic development in Del Rio!" said Del Rio Mayor Robert Garza. “The new Texas Sky airline service to the Del Rio Market is going to be instrumental in the growth of our industrial and business sector,” said Blanca Larson, President of the Del Rio Chamber of Commerce. “Without the collaboration and support of Congressman Hurd as well as congressional support, the project would not have come into fruition.” With the third largest lake in Texas, endless hiking trails and prehistoric cave art, Del Rio is a great destination for families. Beginning May 1, flights from DFW to Del Rio will be now be available six days a week, saving our military members, business travelers, and tourists hours of drive time.
04.28.2017	U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-Texas), Chairman of the House Information Technology Subcommittee, introduced the Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act today with fellow Subcommittee members and thought-leaders from across the aisle Reps. Robin Kelly (D-Illinois) and Gerry Connolly (D-Virginia). This bipartisan federal IT reform package is designed to reduce wasteful IT spending and strengthen information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to modern technology like cloud computing. “The federal government spends $80 billion each year on IT systems and 80 percent of which is spent maintaining outdated, legacy systems. Our government needs to be able to introduce cutting edge technology into their networks to improve operational efficiency and decrease operational cost. The MGT Act does just that,” said Rep. Hurd who has tirelessly championed technology updates in Congress and represents an emerging tech and cybersecurity sector in San Antonio. “We’ve been fighting to get this bill signed into law because the American people deserve better from their government. A move towards modern technologies can keep our information and digital infrastructure secure from cyberattacks, while saving billions of taxpayer dollars. This legislation is an innovative solution and another step forward in strengthening our digital infrastructure.” Under MGT, savings obtained by federal agencies, by doing things like streamlining IT systems, replacing legacy products and transitioning to cloud computing, can be placed in a working capital fund that can be accessed for up to three years for further modernization efforts. This approach eliminates the traditional use-it or lose-it approach that has plagued government technology for decades. MGT can help the federal government address growing cyber threats and provide a more efficient product to the American people. “The bipartisan Modernizing Government Technology Act is a first step toward common sense solutions that upgrade our outdated technology infrastructure to make us safer, stronger and more secure,” said Congresswoman Robin Kelly, ranking member of the IT Subcommittee. “This bill is long overdue. It’s 2017, it’s time to bring the next generation of technology and innovation to government IT to save costs, protect our citizens personal information and enhance security.” “I am proud to join Representative Hurd in reintroducing this critical IT modernization legislation. We are also pleased to have the support of Representative Kelly and Senators Udall and Moran. The MGT II Act builds on the success of the bipartisan Federal IT Acquisition and Reform Act and ensures the savings and efficiencies created by FITARA provide the investment needed for agencies to transition to the cloud,” said U.S. Representative Gerald Connolly (D-VA). “We were pleased to see continued support for this bill from both industry and the executive branch. Moving forward with MGT II, we hope that the Administration will join Congress in making long overdue investments in federal IT and modernization efforts,” Connolly added. “As our lives race further into the digital age the information systems that command how government serves the people are stuck in the past. Will Hurd’s legislation restructures the governments’ flawed approach to IT and could set off a new era of constituent-first government service. This legislation is fundamental to the efforts of the Innovation Initiative to modernize government and I will schedule it for floor consideration as soon as it advances from the Oversight and Government Reform Committee,” said Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. “In the 10 months since we first introduced legislation, Americans have come to understand firsthand the importance of cybersecurity. Meanwhile, federal government data and critical infrastructure are currently compromised by outdated IT systems incapable of supporting best practices to help safeguard sensitive information. Bringing the government’s aging IT systems into the 21st century would not only shore up our cybersecurity, but also save billions of taxpayer dollars through reductions in wasteful spending for years to come. The IT investment reforms included in this legislation are an important step toward a more efficient, effective and secure government,” said U.S. Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) who is co-introducing companion legislation in the Senate with Senator Tom Udall (D-NM). "Information technology is growing rapidly and while the United States is a world leader in this technology, our federal government's IT tools remain severely outdated," Senator Udall said. "Maintaining our old IT systems ends up costing the taxpayers billions of dollars each year. Our bipartisan legislation will curb this wasted taxpayer money by helping federal agencies retire the old systems and invest in new cloud computing and other critical technologies. This bill will ensure our government is getting better service at a better value for the American taxpayers." Reed Cordish and Chris Liddell, Assistants to the President and Members of The White House Office of American Innovation, issued the following statement: "We are excited about today's introduction of the Modernizing Government Technology Act; this important bipartisan work, led by Rep. Will Hurd and Rep. Steny Hoyer, will enable significant progress to be made towards creating a more effective, efficient, and accountable government for all Americans." "Incidents like the OPM breach underscore why the federal government needs to invest in modernizing outdated technology, but it cannot, because it is trapped in a funding cycle where it spends $60 billion dollars just to sustain the systems that it has," said Trey Hodgkins, Senior Vice President for Public Sector at the IT Alliance for Public Sector, a division of tech trade group ITI. "The MGT Act will help federal agencies adopt new technologies like cloud computing, other innovative technologies and strengthen their cybersecurity. We hope the strong bipartisan backing behind this bill compels Congress to act swiftly and send this legislation to the president to sign into law and boost our national security," said IT Alliance for the Public Sector (ITAPS) Senior Vice President Trey Hodgkins. “The Professional Services Council (PSC) would like to thank Senators Moran and Udall, Chairman Hurd and Ranking Member Connolly for their continued leadership to advance policies that will upgrade the government’s legacy IT systems,” said David Berteau, President & CEO of PSC. “PSC supports the Modernizing Government Technology Act because we believe the bill will help make government more effective and its networks more secure, while reducing overall costs.” “Ensuring that our government has the most up-to-date technology is a top priority for Dell and we applaud Rep. Hurd for introducing the Modernizing Government Technology Act,” said Steve Harris, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Dell EMC Federal. “As the world continues to change at an unprecedented pace, the federal government must have modern IT systems that can adapt to better serve their constituents. We look forward to working Rep. Hurd and the 115th Congress to ensure passage of this critical piece of legislation.”
04.19.2017	TORNILLO, TEXAS --Today, Congressman Will Hurd, the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) joined to commemorate the naming of the Marcelino Serna Port of Entry (POE) in Tornillo, just outside of El Paso, Texas. Marcelino Serna was an El Paso resident who served in World War I and became the most decorated World War I veteran from Texas. “The veteran community has been championing this issue for many years, and it is an honor to deliver on their wishes after two years of working in Washington to make this happen,” said Congressman Hurd. “Today we honored a man who immigrated to the United States and risked his life repeatedly to protect the safety of his fellow soldiers. The Marcelino Serna Port of Entry will not only honor this extraordinary man’s service to our nation, it will serve as a reminder of the countless Hispanic-American immigrants who have fought valiantly to keep our nation safe. It brings me great joy to celebrate with his daughter Gloria and the rest of the Tornillo community.” “It is an honor to represent GSA as we memorialize Marcelino Serna for his courage and patriotism in World War I,” said GSA Acting Regional Administrator Jim Weller. “Dedicating the Tornillo Port of Entry in his name demonstrates the federal government's respect and appreciation for his service to country.” “The dedication and service to country demonstrated by Marcelino Serna a century ago is reflected in the daily work of CBP officers assigned to this facility,” said CBP Marcelino Serna Port Director Donna Sifford. Private Marcelino Serna lived in El Paso and volunteered for the U.S. Army during World War I. After basic training Serna was sent overseas to join the Allied forces but was later given the option to withdraw because, at the time, he was not a U.S. citizen. Instead, he chose to stay and fight with his fellow soldiers. During his service, Serna’s dedication and bravery saved many lives. For his acts of courage, Serna was honored by the U.S. Army with two Purple Hearts and was the first Hispanic to be awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. Serna, who became a U.S. citizen in 1924, died in 1992 at the age of 95 and was buried with full military honors at Fort Bliss National Cemetery. The Marcelino Serna POE is a newly constructed 117 acre port that was completed in 2016 and replaced the legacy Fabens POE. The Marcelino Serna POE provides both noncommercial and commercial inspections and is the bridge between Tornillo and Guadalupe in Mexico. For more information about the public law regarding the naming, click HERE. GSA Contact: Tina Jaegerman Tina.jaegerman@gsa.gov
04.18.2017	Fort Stockton, TX – This morning, U.S. Representative Will Hurd celebrated the opening of his new district office in Fort Stockton with over 40 local leaders and members of the public. Attendees included Pecos County Judge Joe Shuster, Ward County Judge Greg Holly, Fort Stockton Mayor Chris Alexander, Executive Vice President of the Fort Stockton Chamber of Commerce Arna McCorckle, Executive Director of the Monahans Chamber of Commerce Teresa Burnett, and the Fort Stockton Chamber of Commerce Ambassadors. Fort Stockton High School Senior Serena Tarango sang the National Anthem, and students from Apache Elementary School led the Pledge of Allegiance. Congressman Hurd’s Fort Stockton office, marks his sixth district office across the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, one of the largest geographical districts in the nation. “I take great pride in providing the gold standard in two-way communication with constituents and offering them highest level of service. Having a brick-and-mortar presence is one way that my team can continue helping folks with federal agencies like Social Security, Medicare, and the VA, and be a bigger part of the local community. This is why I am proud to open my sixth district office today in Fort Stockton, so that residents in West Texas can receive assistance in-person,” said Congressman Hurd. Office hours in the Fort Stockton office will be held every third Tuesday of the month and subsequent Wednesday and Thursday from 8AM to 5PM, and no appointment is necessary. Constituents are encouraged to come by for help with federal agencies and to share questions and concerns. Rep. Hurd’s office is located in the Pecos County Courthouse at 103 West Callaghan, Fort Stockton, TX 79735.
04.12.2017	San Antonio, TX -- In response to today's announcement that video-streaming giant Hulu has selected San Antonio to be home to a new service center, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “Hulu coming to San Antonio is a testament to the hard work of the City and County leaders to attract high-paying jobs to the tech community. Hulu realized what we’ve known all along –San Antonio is a powerhouse of innovation and creativity. This is great news for our community and economy, and I look forward to welcoming Hulu to the Alamo City.”
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Representative Will Hurd introduced the Veteran Employment Through Technology Education Courses (VET TEC) Act, which will establish a VA pilot program that expands access for veterans to non-traditional technology courses that are currently unavailable under their GI Bill. This will result in increased access to online and distance learning, which is particularly useful for veterans in rural communities, like many in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. Likewise, careers in network integration and development require increasingly complex industry certifications that have to this point been inaccessible under the current GI Bill structure. This legislation works to break down barriers our veterans are facing by speeding up how the VA can contract with vendors who provide non-traditional technology courses to veterans. In some cases, service members will even be eligible for a housing stipend in order to continue technical training or vocational school in person. “This legislation will prepare our veterans to thrive in a changing economy. America’s veterans are the best our country has to offer, and their service experience and work ethic are unparalleled. With these fundamental qualities, veterans can be our greatest asset in the modern economy if only we empower them to learn the skills of the 21st century workforce. While the post-9/11 GI Bill provides funding for veterans to pursue traditional education programs, rapid technological advancements have created non-traditional jobs that our veterans can and should fill. The benefits designed to help veterans transition to civilian life must be updated to fit the changing times. Our veterans have the character and drive to do any job. We must support them to learn skills for the jobs of the future,” said Leader McCarthy of the VET TEC Act. Congressman Will Hurd, an original co-sponsor of the bill, said. “We need to do a better job transitioning our nation’s veterans into meaningful civilian careers outside the military, and alternative tech programs offer valuable skills that are highly responsive to industry needs. As the tech industry adds hundreds of thousands of new jobs, we can reduce veteran unemployment and create a pipeline of skilled workers by training our nation’s heroes for these types of jobs.” Hurd added, “Coding is the language of the future. By turning our veterans into coders, we are better serving them and investing in our economy.”
04.07.2017	San Antonio, TX – In response to last night’s strikes against an air base in Syria, U.S Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “Bashar al-Assad showed a disregard for human life and longstanding norms against chemical weapons with his barbaric attack this week. Last night’s strikes were a limited, proportional, and retaliatory response directly to these actions. I support the President for taking strong, decisive action, and I commend our troops for their professionalism in carrying out these strikes. The United States sent a signal to the world that the we will no longer stand idly by as Assad carries out atrocities against the Syrian people. I continue to believe that a peaceful, prosperous Syria can only exist with a stable government in place which does not include Bashar al-Assad. We must continue to work with our allies, partners, and the international community to achieve this goal.”
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – In response to Chairman Devin Nunes’ announcement this morning, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement: "The American people deserve nothing less than the truth when it comes to this serious investigation into Russian interference in our election. From the beginning, the committee has sought to operate in a bipartisan and thorough manner and I look forward to continuing this investigation with my colleagues.”
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – Following the Senate’s passage by unanimous consent last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that extends the Veterans Choice Program. Representative Will Hurd who supported the measure, released the following statement: “In a district that stretches through rural areas of south and west Texas, access to medical care is a real problem for many of the 45,000 veterans I represent. The Choice Program is a critical tool in working to provide veterans with the care they need by allowing them to visit local physicians if they live more than 40 miles from a VA facility or have to wait more than 30 days for care. This is why I’ve hosted multiple Choice Card information sessions for veterans, their families, and local providers to learn about the resources they have. While the program is not perfect, it continues to improve and I’ll continue to hold the VA accountable so that veterans’ needs are being met.” Without action, the ability to use the VA Choice Program would have ended on Aug. 7, 2017.
03.28.2017	San Antonio, TX – During a three-day workshop this weekend in San Antonio, more than 40 middle and high school math teachers from 16 school districts between San Antonio and Socorro were taught how to incorporate coding and computer science lessons into their curriculums. This initiative was led by U.S. Congressman Will Hurd, in partnership with the University of Texas Center for STEM Education, a non-profit computer science teacher training organization called Bootstrap, and sponsored by several tech companies including Dell, Intel, Facebook, and Brocade. The training, which was held at BiblioTech South, will impact more than 1,000 students across Texas the first year alone, in an effort to expose them to computer science education at an earlier age. Click here to see video.
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – This afternoon, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Under our current healthcare system, millions of American families and small businesses still don’t have access to the healthcare they need. I respect the efforts that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans made by putting forward a proposal to try and address these issues. Unfortunately, the AHCA in its current form created new challenges. After listening to constituents and experts in the healthcare community, I am hopeful that we can go back to the drawing board and fix our broken healthcare system. We must get this right. The lives of Americans depend on it.”
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (AZ-02) and Will Hurd (TX-23), Chair and Vice Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, sent an oversight letter asking for specific details of the Administration’s request for $999 million to plan, design, and construct the first installment of a border wall between the United States and Mexico. Addressed to Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) John Kelly, and Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney, the letter lays out a series of detailed questions to DHS in order to provide the lawmakers with further clarity regarding the President’s recent supplemental appropriations request, which was sent to Congress on March 16, 2017. The two lawmakers, whose districts collectively represent 880 miles— nearly half— of the U.S-Mexico border, seek specific details of the location of the proposed wall, definitions of adequate natural barriers, and a breakdown of the investments in supplemental technology, infrastructure, and alleviating personnel backlogs. “As Representatives of the communities that make up our southern border, we recognize the need for robust border security and infrastructure to ensure public safety and increase cross border commerce,” the lawmakers write. “We also have an obligation to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and as such have a number of questions.” “While we have both publicly stated in the past that we believe physical barriers to be one of many tools required to gain operational control of the border,” continued the lawmakers, “we also believe that an expenditure this large, and submitted with limited details, deserves additional scrutiny to ensure funds are being used effectively in pursuit of our shared goal of securing the southwest border.” The full text of their letter is below. View a PDF of the letter HERE.
03.19.2017	Washington, DC – In advance of Thursday’s vote overhauling the Affordable Care Act, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “We must remember, that regardless of its goals, Obamacare has not made healthcare more accessible or more affordable. It has led to expensive and confusing insurance coverage for American families while adding regulations at the expense of small businesses. I see this first-hand as I travel the district and hear stories of premiums doubling overnight and outrageous deductibles forcing families to spend their entire savings just to get the care they need. “And what keeps getting lost in media coverage is this: insurance is not healthcare. Seven years after the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, there are still millions of Texans who cannot access or afford quality healthcare. ‘Rates of the insured’ are irrelevant if these same people cannot afford to receive treatment. “Obamacare is collapsing, so maintaining the status quo is not an option. While crisscrossing my district all year and driving 1,600 miles across the country last week, I’ve heard loud-and-clear that while the American Health Care Act (AHCA) will increase insurance options and competition, it must help those who were previously uninsurable, and strengthen protections for the aged and disabled on Medicaid. “This is why I’ve been encouraging Leadership in the House of Representatives to make changes to the AHCA prior to our vote on Thursday. Congress needs to provide states the flexibility to address their most pressing issues. I’ve asked for Medicaid expansion and non-expansion states to be treated equally, and I’ve asked that doctors who take care of these vulnerable populations receive the support they need so that they do not opt-out of treating Medicaid patients all together, further restricting access to care. “Even after Obamacare is repealed, work still needs to be done like extending and expanding programs like the 1115 Waiver. This is a tool used by States to expand Medicaid access for children, families, and those in rural areas. “I’ve also told House Leadership I will continue to champion funding for Community Health Centers and increased reimbursements for rural providers, and I believe that any final plan must integrate these critical components. I look forward to reading the final bill and hope that these provisions, which are extremely important to my constituents, are included.”
03.10.2017	Washington, DC – This week, the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium Act was reintroduced in both the House and Senate. Co-sponsored by every Congressman in the San Antonio delegation, the bill authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to work with the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC), to help train local law enforcement and government entities to better prevent cyber-attacks. Both UTSA and Texas A&M’s Engineering Extension Program participate in the NCPC partnership and will play an important role improving cyber preparedness and response in our state and local communities. “As we’ve witnessed over the past several years, no one is immune to cyberattacks, including our state and local governments. Unfortunately, our community entities often do not possess the same digital resources as the federal government or the tools to detect, respond to, and recover from a cyberattack," said Hurd, who serves as Chairman of the House Information Technology Subcommittee and has been a leading voice in government IT and encryption debates. “This public-private partnership will strengthen cyber preparedness at the local level while enhancing the profile of San Antonio’s cybersecurity ecosystem. UTSA is already a leading academic institution in the cybersecurity field, and this authorization will further position the university to develop cutting-edge technologies that the rest of the nation will adopt.” UTSA expressed support for the initiative when it was first introduced in 2016. “The NCPC and The University of Texas at San Antonio are excited to work more closely with DHS on helping states and communities to develop or improve their viable and sustainable cyber security programs,” said Dr. Greg White last year, a professor specializing in computer and information security at the University of Texas San Antonio. "We believe that the Community Cyber Security Maturity Model that the NCPC’s efforts are based on provide a clear roadmap to help states and communities secure their cyber infrastructures.” “As I’ve said before, cybersecurity isn’t just a buzzword. It’s a serious issue that can potentially impact every single American. This is common-sense legislation that strengthens our nation’s cyber posture at every level of government," Hurd concluded.
03.09.2017	Washington, DC—To better help our nation’s veterans transition into meaningful civilian careers, this week U.S. Representative Will Hurd introduced H.R. 1428, the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act. The bill will incentivize state and local governments to hire American veterans as new law enforcement officers. “We owe the men and women who have fought for our freedoms the smoothest transition possible to civilian life. One of the best ways we can do this is to provide outlets for these heroes to continue their service right here at home,” said Hurd, who introduced the legislation last Congress and co-sponsored similar legislation that incentivized the Department of Homeland Security to hire veterans as Customs and Border Protection officers. “Not only are we providing an occupational service to vets, but we are funneling trained professionals to police departments and making our communities safer. The American Law Enforcement Heroes Act will be a win for communities nationwide.” “The men and women of our military are equipped with valuable skills, and by incentivizing local law enforcement to hire veterans, we can strengthen our communities and help veterans transition to civilian life. I’m proud of this bipartisan effort to pair our nation’s heroes with meaningful jobs around the country that allow them to continue to serve and protect,” Sen. Cornyn said. The legislation is the result of a joint-initiative by Hurd and U.S. Senator John Cornyn, which they announced in October at a roundtable with local San Antonio law enforcement leaders. The bill gives preference to local and state law enforcement agencies that hire veterans when applying for federal reimbursement grants that fund academy and field training. Senator Cornyn introduced a companion bill in the Senate at the same time. Hurd, Cornyn promueven un camino de las fuerzas armadas a orden público Nueva iniciativa anima a departamentos policiales a emplear veteranos Washington, DC – Para mejorar la transición de veteranos a careras civiles, el Congresista Will Hurd introdujo H.R. 1428 American Law Enforcement Heroes Act esta semana. Este proyecto de ley incentiva a gobiernos estatales y locales a emplear a veteranos como nuevos miembros del cuerpo policial. “Le debemos a los hombres y mujeres que han luchado por nuestras libertades la transición más fluida posible a la vida civil. Una de las mejores maneras que podemos hacer esto es proveyendo los medios para que estos héroes continúen su servicio aquí en casa,” dijo Hurd, quien introdujo la legislación en el congreso anterior, y patrocino una legislación similar que incentiva al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional a emplear a veteranos como oficiales de Aduanas y Protección Fronteriza. “No estamos solamente proveyendo un servicio laboral a los veterano, también estamos digiriendo a profesionales entrenados a departamentos policiales y haciendo que nuestras comunidades estén más seguras. El Acta American Law Enforcement Heroes será un éxito para las comunidades a nivel nacional,” añadió Hurd. “Los hombres y mujeres de nuestra milicia están preparados con aptitudes valiosas, y al incentivar a los cuerpos policiales a emplear a veteranos, podemos reforzar nuestras comunidades y ayudar a los veteranos en su transición a una vida civil. Estoy orgulloso de este esfuerzo bipartidista que juntara a nuestros héroes con trabajos significantes a lo largo del país que les permitirá continuar a servir y proteger,” dijo el Sen. Cornyn. La legislación es el resultado de una iniciativa unida por Hurd y el Senador John Cornyn, quienes lo anunciaron en una junta con líderes del cuerpo policial de San Antonio en octubre. Este proyecto de ley les da preferencia a agencias de cuerpos oficiales locales y estatales quien emplea a veteranos cuando apliquen por subvenciones de reembolsos federales que financian las academias y entrenamientos. El Senador Cornyn introdujo una legislación compañera en el Senado al mismo tiempo.
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Reinforcing his commitment to keeping Americans safe, U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined his colleagues to fund our national defense through fiscal year 2017. The bill provides appropriations for our men and women in uniform, their operations, as well as research and development of innovative military technologies, and Overseas Contingency Operations to fight international terrorism. This bill will also allow critical projects at Laughlin AFB, JBSA, and Ft. Bliss to move forward. “There have already been 13 ISIS-linked terror plots against the west in 2017, following last year’s explosion in terrorist recruitment and radicalization online. In order to stay ahead of the threat, we must properly equip our men and women on the ground with the tools they need to keep us safe – now and in the future,” said Hurd, who sits on the House Intelligence and Homeland Security Committees. “The safety of Americans is my highest priority in Congress and I will always stand on the side of strong national security. While we must do more to fully fund our national security and provide stability to our commanders, this is a positive step.” The Department of Defense Appropriations Act was approved in the House of Representatives and has been sent to the Senate.
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – In response to President Trump’s executive action mandating a full review of the Obama Administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued the following statement: “There is no legitimate reason for the EPA to regulate dry ditches on farm land which is why I voted with my colleagues in the House to repeal WOTUS last year. If implemented it would place unnecessary burdens on farmers, ranchers, and small business owners across Texas, restricting their ability to make decisions about their private property, and negatively impacting our economy. I welcome the President’s review of this federal power grab and look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration to fully roll back this burdensome regulation.
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – Today Speaker of the House Paul Ryan recognized Representative Will Hurd’s leadership on border security, trade, and transnational cooperation, by appointing Hurd to the U.S.-Mexico Interparliamentary Group (IPG) for the 115th Congress. The IPG is responsible for fostering dialogue between members of the United States and Mexican legislative bodies on issues of bilateral importance. “The largest trading partner for Texas is Mexico,” said Hurd, who represents over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “It is now more important than ever that we strengthen our relationship as allies and partners, so we can work together to solve our complex border challenges without sacrificing the livelihood of millions of Texans.” “Will has a unique national security background and represents more miles of the US-Mexico border than anyone else—he will be an asset to this group,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. “His experience as an undercover CIA officer and cybersecurity entrepreneur will be useful as we work to tackle some of our biggest shared challenges with Mexico, like border security and organized crime. I look forward to Will's contributions as we continue to strengthen ties between our two nations.” "Speaker Ryan's appointments of Representative Hurd to the US-Mexico Interparliamentary Group and Representative McCaul as Chair of the U.S. delegation are great choices. Congressman Hurd will advance productive dialogue and shared policy objectives between our countries," said Mexican Under Secretary for North America Carlos Sada. "He is a thoughtful leader on border issues, trade, and most importantly, fully understands the importance of our bilateral relationship and the need to further integrate our existing cooperation frameworks. I am confident Rep. Hurd will be an asset to the working group by embracing frank and open discussions that will lead the way with other members of the group towards fostering and strengthening our countries mutual understanding, paving the way to continue improving the well-being of our people. I look forward to his contributions." “Representative Hurd is a champion for the people of South and West Texas and understands that we can secure the border without harming the long-standing trade and cultural bonds that these communities share with Mexico. Additionally, his outspoken advocacy to modernize NAFTA to embrace 21st Century technology, new energy developments, and cyber protections, which would have tremendous gains for the economy, make him the perfect representative for the Committee,” said former U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Antonio Garza of the appointment. Hurd added, “This is an exciting opportunity for both our countries. I look forward to working with my Mexican counterparts to develop mutually beneficial policy that strengthens the economy and keeps Americans safe.” Hurd Nombrado Al Grupo Interparlamentario E.E.U.U.-México “Debemos reforzar nuestras relaciones como aliados y socios” Washington, DC – Hoy el Presidente de la Cámara de Representantes Paul Ryan reconoció el liderazgo del Congresista Will Hurd en los asuntos de la seguridad fronteriza, el comercio, y la cooperación transnacional al nombrarlo al Grupo Interparlamentario E.E.U.U.-México (IPG por sus siglas en ingles), para el 115º Congreso. El IPG es responsable de promover el dialogo entre miembros de los cuerpos legislativos del E.E.U.U. y México en asuntos de importancia bilateral. “El socio de comercio más grande de Texas es México,” dijo Hurd, quien representa más de 800 millas de la frontera entre E.E.U.U. y México, más que cualquier otro Miembro del Congreso. “Ahora es más importante que nunca que reforcemos nuestra relación como aliados y socios, para que trabajemos juntos para resolver los retos complejos de la frontera sin sacrificar el modo de vida de millones de Texanos.” “Will tiene una experiencia única en la seguridad nacional y representa más millas de la frontera entre E.E.U.U. y México que cualquier otra persona – el será esencial en este grupo,” dijo Paul Ryan. “Su experiencia como oficial clandestino de la CIA y empresario en la seguridad cibernética será útil mientras que estamos trabajando para enfrentar los retos comunes que tenemos con México, como la seguridad fronteriza y el crimen organizado. Estoy ansioso en ver las contribuciones de Will mientras que continuemos reforzando la relación entre nuestras dos naciones.” “Los nombramientos del Congresista Will Hurd por parte del Presidente de la Cámara Paul Ryan al Grupo Interparlamentario E.E.U.U.-México y el Congresista Michael McCaul como Presidente de la delegación E.E.U.U. son buenas elecciones. El Congresista Hurd avanzara el dialogo productivo y los objetivos de política que hay en común entre nuestros países,” dijo el Subsecretario Mexicano para América del Norte, Carlos Sada. “Él es un líder atento en los asuntos relacionados a la frontera, el comercio, y sobre todo, comprende completamente la importancia de nuestra relación bilateral y la necesidad de integrarse aún más en nuestro marco de cooperación ya existente. Tengo mucha confianza que el Congresista Hurd será esencial para el grupo al adoptar discusiones abiertas y francas que junto a otros miembros del grupo influirá el crecimiento y refuerzo del entendimiento muto de nuestros países, abriendo paso para seguir mejorando el bienestar de nuestra gente. Estoy ansioso en ver sus contribuciones.” “El Congresista Hurd es un campeón para la gente del Sur y Oeste de Texas y entiende que podemos proteger la frontera sin dañar el comercio y los lazos culturales que estas comunidades comparten con México. Adicionalmente, su apoyo abierto para la actualización de NAFTA para adoptar la tecnología del Siglo XXI, los nuevos desarrollos de energía, y las protecciones cibernéticas, las cuales tendrán unas ganancias tremendas para la economía, lo hacen el representante perfecto para esta Comisión,” dijo el ex Embajador Estadounidense a México Antonio Garza sobre el nombramiento. Hurd añadió, “esta es una oportunidad emocionante para ambos países. Estoy ansioso por trabajar con mis colegas mexicanos para mutuamente desarrollar las pólizas beneficiosas que refuerzan la economía y nos mantiene seguros.”
01.29.2017	San Antonio, TX – Former undercover CIA officer and Texas Congressman Will Hurd released the following statement in reaction to President Trump’s announcement that immigration to the United States would be limited from seven countries: “A one-size-fits-all solution is not the way to solve one of the most complex National Security challenges we face -- Islamic Terrorism. The Executive Order banning visa adjudication from seven countries does not make us safer; rather it decreases the security of our homeland and endangers the lives of thousands of American men and women in our Military, diplomatic corps and intelligence services. There are almost 10,000 Americans serving in Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. A target has been placed on their backs by increasing tensions in an already volatile region. These men and women are fighting alongside citizens of those countries in order to keep Islamic Extremists on the run and off our shores. “As an undercover CIA officer I spent most of my adult life chasing down terrorists that would do our homeland and U.S. Citizens harm, so I know how important it is to cooperate with foreign allies to get the job done. We cannot fight the scourge of Islamic Extremism alone, and to prevent terrorists from having safe havens from which to plot, plan and train for attacks on the United States, we need to work with all allies around the world. This visa ban is the ultimate display of mistrust and will erode our allies' willingness to fight with us. The ban also provides terrorists with another tool to gain sympathy and recruit new fighters. “The way to solve this problem is to continue tightening visa loopholes, ensure that the right intelligence is being shared with our allies and amongst U.S. agencies and organizations, and to use a number of tools to keep Americans from falling prey to ISIS propaganda. Several bills passed the House or Senate last Congress to address these issues, but were not signed into law. I will work to re-introduce legislation designed to keep all Americans safe, giving our President the opportunity to sign legislation that will protect our shores from those who seek to do us harm.” ###
01.25.2017	San Antonio, TX – Texas Republican Congressman Will Hurd released the following statement regarding President Trump’s border security Executive Order: “The facts have not changed. Building a wall is the most expensive and least effective way to secure the border. Each section of the border faces unique geographical, cultural, and technological challenges that would be best addressed with a flexible, sector-by-sector approach that empowers the agents on the ground with the resources they need. A wall may be an effective tool in densely populated areas, but a variety of tools are needed between Brownsville, Texas and San Diego, California. The 23rd District of Texas, which I represent, has over 800 miles of the border, more than any other Member of Congress, and it is impossible to build a physical wall in much of its terrain. Big Bend National Park and many areas in my district are perfect examples of where a wall is unnecessary and would negatively impact the environment, private property rights, and economy. There is no question that we must secure our border, but we need an intelligence-led approach in order to effectively combat the 19 criminal organizations currently operating in Mexico.” Declaración de Hurd Respecto a la Acción Ejecutiva del Presidente Trump sobre la Frontera San Antonio, TX – El Congresista Republicano de Texas Will Hurd público este comunicado respecto a la Acción Ejecutiva del Presidente Trump sobre la frontera: “La realidad no ha cambiado. Un muro es la manera más costosa y menos efectiva para enfrentar la seguridad fronteriza. Cada sección de la frontera enfrenta retos geográficos, culturales, y tecnológico que son mejor resueltos con un enfoque flexible que capacita a los agentes en el terreno con los recursos que necesitan. Un muro puede ser una herramienta útil en áreas densamente poblados, pero se requiere una variedad de herramientas entre Brownsville, Texas y San Diego, California. El Distrito 23 de Texas, la cual represento, tiene sobre 800 millas de la frontera, más que cualquier otro Miembro del Congreso, y es imposible construir un muro físico sobre varias partes de su terreno. El Parque Nacional Big Bend y muchas áreas en mi distrito son ejemplos perfectos en donde no es necesario un muro, y tendría un impacto negativo para el ambiente, los derechos de propiedades privadas, y la economía. No hay ninguna duda de que debemos asegurar nuestra frontera, pero necesitamos un enfoque basado en la inteligencia para luchar efectivamente en contra de las 19 organizaciones criminales que actualmente operan en México.” ###
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Amid increasing threats to the homeland and around the globe, former undercover CIA officer Congressman Will Hurd has become the first representative from the 23rd district of Texas to be appointed to the U.S. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). At a time when the Intelligence Community faces significant challenges, Rep. Hurd brings firsthand national security and intelligence gathering experience to the body tasked with overseeing and supporting their operations. This prestigious appointment by the Speaker of the House at the beginning of his second term is big news after a hard fought reelection. Hurd sits on the committees of Homeland Security and Oversight and Government Reform and has quickly positioned himself as a leading voice on National Security and Cybersecurity. “We are living in a dangerous time when our enemies’ tactics, techniques, and procedures are continuously evolving. It’s the job of Congress to make sure our national security apparatus is ready to meet these threats,” said Hurd. “I left an organization I love, and a career I loved and was good at because I believed I could help the intelligence community in a different way. That’s why I ran for Congress. It’s exciting to be able to use my experience to develop recommendations with my colleagues on the Committee that will prevent terrorist attacks and keep Americans safe.” “Will is an obvious choice for this committee,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. “During his first term in Congress, he was a leader on national security and cybersecurity issues, drawing from his personal experience to help educate his colleagues and shape policy. His expertise will be a strong asset as we strengthen our national security policies to protect Americans at home and our interests abroad.” “I’d like to give a warm welcome to Congressman Hurd, who is joining the House Intelligence Committee," HPSCI Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) stated. "With his years-long experience as a CIA officer, he has immense first-hand knowledge of the Intelligence Community, and I expect he will play a critical role in the committee’s oversight activities.” “Will’s background as a Clandestine Service officer has made him uniquely qualified to serve on HPSCI,” added George Tenet, former Director of Central Intelligence. “Having served both in congressional oversight staff and the CIA, myself, I know his exemplary service and experience will be invaluable to the committee responsible for overseeing our nation’s intelligence operations.” “Rep. Hurd’s appointment to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is very important for the city of San Antonio,” said Bexar County Judge Nelson P. Wolff. “His first-hand experience and expertise makes him the best person to represent our city on this committee when it comes to issues of national security and helping San Antonio to continue to strengthen its claim as Cyber City, USA.” "On behalf of the Airmen of 24th Air Force, Air Forces Cyber, I would like to congratulate Rep. Will Hurd on his new appointment. He has been a vocal advocate and ally for the Air Force and Cyberspace Operations,” stated Major General Christopher Weggeman, Commander of the 24th Air Force at Joint Base San Antonio, which plans and executes global cyberspace operations. “We look forward to working with him, his staff and the committee to secure our nation’s vital interests." “I’m honored by Speaker Ryan’s appointment and humbled to be able to yet again support my colleagues in the Intelligence Community as they continue their challenging and gravely important work to keep this country safe,” said Hurd. ###
01.18.2017	Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Will Hurd, former undercover CIA officer, released the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of commuting the sentence of PVT Manning: “This action on behalf of the chief accomplice for Julian Assange should outrage all those who support the men and women who serve our nation. It is another example of a President not taking national security seriously.” ###
01.10.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX) and Seth Moulton (D-MA) are starting a new Congressional session by working to modernize the federal government. On day two of the 115th Congress, the bipartisan duo re-introduced the Modernizing Government Travel (MGT) Act, in an effort to allow government employees to use ridesharing apps, bikeshare programs, and other innovative transportation options for official business. On day six, the House passed the bill with a unanimous vote. “The option to summon a ride via smartphone gives millions of federal employees’ greater flexibility, saves taxpayer dollars, and allows federal agencies to catch up with the private sector,” said Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “If we want a 21st Century government, innovation is key.” “This legislation is a bipartisan effort that demonstrates a clear consensus on both sides of the aisle that the federal government has failed to keep pace with the technological advances and innovation that have come to define the 21st century economy,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “Our bill ensures that innovative and cost-effective modes of transportation are available to the millions of federal employees throughout the country for official travel.” Last year, ride-sharing industry leaders praised the passage of the same legislation during the 114th Congress: “Millions of Americans rely on Lyft's convenient, affordable rides when traveling for work, and we appreciate the House passage of legislation to allow federal workers to utilize transportation choices that include ridesharing,” said Joe Okpaku, Lyft's Vice President of Government Relations. “We want to thank Representatives Hurd, Moulton, Swalwell and Issa for their continued support of innovative, modern options like Lyft.” "Thank you to Congressman Hurd and Congressman Moulton for working hard to move this legislation forward in the House. Uber is committed to providing reliable transportation at the push of a button for everyone, everywhere, including those working in the federal government," said Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber. The MGT Act now heads to the Senate. ###
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – In an effort to increase accountability in Washington, U.S. Representative Will Hurd supported two bills that restore Congress’ authority by increasing oversight of the federal rulemaking process that costs taxpayers millions of dollars each year. Under the Midnight Rules Relief Act, Congress will have the ability to vote down last-minute federal rules enacted by Presidents in their final year of office. Similarly, the REINS Act requires all federal regulations with an annual cost of over $100 million to be approved by Congress before implementation, preventing burdensome bureaucracy from stifling economic growth. “Last-minute federal regulations only advance an outgoing President’s personal agenda at the expense of hardworking families and small businesses,” said Hurd, who is a Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “Increased accountability will help restore public trust, while preventing these costly regulations.” Both bills passed in the House of Representatives and have been sent to the Senate for a vote. ###
01.05.2017	Washington D.C. – In response to the Obama Administration’s failure to veto the UN Security Council Resolution 2334 condemning Israel, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement after supporting supported H. Res. 11, Objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334, in a show of solidarity with Israel: “Israel is our greatest ally in the region, and the actions taken by the current Administration are not just an insult to Israel, they endanger Americans who live in that region. During a time of increasing threats it is of critical importance we back up our allies in the Middle East. We must strengthen our relationship with Israel, not jeopardize it.”
01.04.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), who served as an undercover officer in the CIA for over nine years, released the following statement regarding Julian Assange’s assertion that the Russian government was not the source of hacked documents released by Wikileaks before the November election: “Julian Assange is not a credible source. We must remember, it was wrong and illegal in 2010 when Assange released over 750,000 pages of classified military and diplomatic documents provided by PVT Manning, constituting the largest leak of classified materials in Army history. Whether the information leaked is true or not is not the point. The issue is that these kinds of actions by Assange are endangering the lives of the countless men and women who bravely risk it all in order to secure intelligence our national security apparatus depends upon to keep Americans safe, both here and abroad. The same people who condemned Secretary Clinton for making sensitive and classified information vulnerable by using an unsecure server, should be equally outraged that Assange continues to carelessly leak sensitive documents.” ###
12.29.2016	San Antonio, TX – Texas Congressman Will Hurd issued the following statement regarding the new sanctions against Russia announced by the Obama administration: “Months ago I called for this administration to respond to Russia's malicious cyber-attacks on American organizations by showing their ambassador to the door. While these sanctions took too long to be put into place, they are an important step in showing Russia and other adversaries that we will not allow these kinds of attacks to go unanswered. There is more we can do to keep American organizations and agencies safe from these cyber-attacks and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the new administration to ensure that our cyber domain is fortified." ###
12.14.2016	Click here to learn more about the TX23 Computer Science Curriculum Initiative and how to sign up. San Antonio, TX –Surrounded by school district superintendents and city leaders at BiblioTech South, U.S. Representative Will Hurd announced a new STEM initiative for schools in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. In partnership with the University of Texas Center for STEM Education and non-profit organization Bootstrap, this curriculum initiative will train middle school teachers to integrate computer science into State-approved mathematics curriculums. Currently, only a handful of Texas middle schools offer coding classes. “In Texas, over 40,000 computing jobs are waiting to be filled, but we only graduate 2,000 computer scientists each year,” said Hurd, who studied Computer Science at Texas A&M University. “Right now the pipeline that produces Computer Science professionals starts at the high school level. We’ve got to do a better job preparing our students for the jobs that don’t exist yet—and we’ve got to start at an earlier age. Coding is the language of the 21st Century economy. If our students can’t speak it, they will be left behind.” The University of Texas Center for STEM Education partners with Bootstrap to host the training, which will train teachers how to teach computer science using math. The learning materials reinforce core concepts from algebra, making the curriculum compatible with the state standards set by the Texas Education Agency (TEA). Because the curriculum is taught through existing math classes, schools do not need additional teachers or classes. Forty middle school teachers may participate in the March 23 – 25 training at BiblioTech South in San Antonio, in order to implement the program in the classroom in Fall 2017. This training has been generously sponsored by Intel, Dell, Facebook, and Brocade. Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff: “Since the doors of the first branch opened on September 14, 2013, BiblioTech has actively worked to bridge literacy and technology gaps in San Antonio and surrounding areas. Congressman Hurd’s announcement of opportunity and availability for this training is a testament to his support in these areas. BiblioTech and the Bexar County are proud to assist in this new and exciting approach to enrich our community and youth.” Dr. Brian G. Gottardy, Superintendent of Schools for North East ISD: “North East ISD recognizes the need for a skilled technology workforce and understands our role in preparing students for jobs that don’t even exist yet. Expanding computer science opportunities down to middle school will help us build engaging and relevant technology experiences to prepare students for high school, college and career.” Emmanuel Schanzer, Bootstrap Program Director: “Algebra is the key to future success in STEM fields, and jobs that require Computer Science knowledge are among the fastest-growing segment of the economy. Bootstrap is proud to work with teachers across Texas’ 23rd district, bringing our unique blend of Algebraic Programming to teachers across San Antonio and beyond. Manuel Justiz, Dean of the College of Education at The University of Texas: "We are excited to partner with Congressman Hurd’s office and companies like Facebook, Intel, Dell and Brocade to bring cutting-edge computer science teacher training to Texas. The WeTeachCS project in the Center for STEM Education is committed to providing teachers with high-quality, accessible computer science education, and we are proud of the project’s state and national leadership to improve such education for all students, enabling them to become leaders in the innovation economy.” Alex Stamos, Facebook Chief Security Officer: “Creating ways to engage young people early with computer science is one of the best investments we can make toward their future and our society. We are glad to support the Hurd Computer Science Initiative for its forward-looking approach.” Jeff Rangel, Senior Director, Corporate Affairs, Brocade: “Brocade believes the network is a platform of innovation with almost limitless potential. We also believe that today’s youth need the STEM skills necessary to leverage that innovation to co-create futures we’ve yet to imagine. We’re proud to support this computer science initiative because it has the capacity to empower youth with those skills.” Steve Harris, Federal Vice President and General Manager, Dell EMC: “As part of Dell’s 2020 Legacy of Good Plan, Dell is committed to putting technology and expertise to work where it can drive human progress. Dell recognizes the importance in providing underserved children access to technology and equip educators with the resources needed to build the computer science, STEM and computational thinking skills crucial for children’s success in a technology-driven future. We are excited to collaborate with Congressman Hurd and top technology companies on this new STEM initiative.” Peter Cleveland, Vice President of Intel’s Government and Policy Group: “Studies show that the quality of a teacher is the single largest influence on student achievement. We are proud to support Congressman Hurd’s Computer Science Initiative to train teachers to integrate computer science into curriculum and help prepare students for the jobs of the future.” Al Arreola, President and CEO, South San Antonio Chamber of Commerce: “The South San Antonio Chamber supports Congressman Hurd’s creative approach to filling the computer science talent gap while championing our homegrown tech sector. This initiative is a great example of how the public and private sectors can work together to generate real returns for our community.” Ramiro Cavazos, President and CEO, San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce: “The San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce is proud to support proposed policies that encourage more students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). The Hispanic Chamber hosts the largest STEM initiative in San Antonio, the CORE4 STEM Program each year, created to build the future STEM workforce of San Antonio, and we look forward to partnering with Rep. Hurd on furthering efforts such as these.” ###
12.10.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Congress approved an important border infrastructure bill, sending the legislation to the President’s desk. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act builds upon the previous work by Senator John Cornyn and Representatives Henry Cuellar, Will Hurd, and Beto O’Rourke to increase financing flexibility for personnel and facility upgrades at U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) crossings. The law makes permanent a successful pilot program that decreased commercial wait times at the border. “International trade and commerce is the life-blood for many towns in my district; however, our ports of entry are overburdened. Decreasing the time it takes to move goods and services safely across the border would have a tremendous economic impact on the region,” said Hurd, who represents over 800 miles of the Texas-Mexico border. “I’m grateful for Senator Cornyn’s efforts to get this important language through the Senate, and excited for the South and West Texas businesses and communities that will reap the benefits.” “Every day, billions of dollars in commerce passes across the United States’ border with Mexico—one of our most important trade partners,” Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) said. “It’s important for both national security and the flow of goods between our countries that the process is as efficient and effective as possible and this legislation is an important step in that direction.” “Our border communities and the entire state’s economy benefit from robust trade with Mexico,” said Senator John Cornyn. “Facilitating more efficient trade through our ports of entry will demonstrate our commitment to both growing Texas’ economy and the vibrant U.S.-Mexico relationship.” Under the new law, the CBP can: Provide additional customs, agricultural processing, border security, or inspection-related immigration services at border ports of entry for a fee Share construction and maintenance costs for border facilities with the GSA Accept donations from individuals in the form of money, facility construction and maintenance, or infrastructure “Efficient border crossings help stimulate legitimate trade and commerce along the U.S.-Mexico Border,” said Marcos Delgado,‎ Executive Vice President of The Borderplex Alliance. “As an organization dedicated to spurring regional economic growth, business leaders across the region often tell us that long wait times at the border impacts their bottom line and ability to continue to grow. If we want to keep our North American advantage and strong trading relationships with Mexico, we need solutions such as those in the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act that can help us decrease wait times and build more efficient infrastructure along the border.” “Many Eagle Pass businesses and families rely on cross-border trade with Mexico. Improving the speed and efficiency that we can move goods across the border safely will have a positive economic impact on our community,” said Sandra Martinez, Executive Director of the Eagle Pass Chamber of Commerce. “I commend Representative Hurd, Representative Cuellar, and Senator Cornyn for working together to champion border trade and serve the needs of hardworking Texans.” "The Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce has been a strong advocate for improved cross border movement of goods for more than 20 years. The commitment of Congressman Hurd, partnering with Congressional colleagues in a bi-partisan effort to approve this initiative, is appreciated and critical to the future of our nation's economy,” said Richard Dayoub, President and CEO of the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce. “The efforts to minimize the wait times on our ports of entry are imperative for our local businesses and our economy as a whole,” states Cindy Ramos-Davidson CEO of the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “El Paso is connected in every aspect to Mexico and it will encourage and drive more trade and consumers to our growing city.” “Our nation’s trade with Mexico has grown by leaps and bounds over the past two decades and supports roughly 6 million U.S. jobs. However, border infrastructure has not kept up with growth. Updating our land ports of entry, which lack the infrastructure and staffing necessary to support increased levels of trade crossing into Del Rio, are necessary to reduce border wait times and enhance cross border trade,” said Mike Wrob, Del Rio Chamber of Commerce President. “"Since the start of the program, wait times in El Paso have decreased 15 percent for commercial traffic and 14 percent for car traffic. This gives Del Rio options in the future if wait times become an issue. It also gives us a way to increase traffic throughput without adding infrastructure. We thank Senator John Cornyn and U.S. Representatives Will Hurd, Henry Cuellar, and Beto O’Rourke for championing this legislation.” ###
12.07.2016	Watch Rep. Hurd Congratulate Emmanuel and Lorenzo via FaceTime El Paso, TX—U.S. Representative Will Hurd is pleased to announce the district-wide winners for the Congressional App Challenge, a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. Del Valle High School students Emmanuel Oyervides and Lorenzo Holguin, both seniors, of El Paso won the TX-23 title for their app, IDME, which takes attendance electronically as students enter the classroom. “Our app was created with our teachers in mind,” explained Oyervides and Holguin in their app submission. “What our app is trying to accomplish is to make taking attendance faster and more efficient since we noticed that our teachers would take a very long time to take attendance, shortening our class time. Our app was able to successfully save time by speeding up the attendance process.” “The future of our economy depends on our ability to educate students in STEM fields. With exposure to these types of careers early on, kids like Emmanuel and Lorenzo will go on to develop the disruptive technologies of tomorrow that will alter and potentially save lives,” said Hurd, who congratulated the students via FaceTime while in Washington, D.C. for votes. “I am particularly impressed at how these young leaders used technology to solve an everyday problem, and I will continue to champion initiatives that inspire students to pursue computer science.” “We are so proud of Emmanuel and Lorenzo for this exciting accomplishment,” said Martin Armendariz, the students’ teacher. “At Del Valle High School, students are introduced to computer science, mechanical engineering, and electronics so that they can excel in STEM fields throughout life. Emmanuel and Lorenzo have demonstrated their hard work and commitment to computer science time and time again as district champions of the UIL Computer Science competition, world competitors at the VEX robotics competition, and now as winners of the Congressional App Challenge. They continue to work hard and inspire other students, and the whole Del Valle community is proud.” The students will each receive $200 in cloud-based services, donated by Amazon Web Services, and will be congratulated in person by Rep. Hurd. Their app will be put on display in the Capitol Building on house.gov and on congressionalappchallenge.us. ###
12.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – In response to systematic dropped calls and lengthy holds times, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a bipartisan measure that will dramatically improve the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) appointment system. Co-sponsored by U.S. Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Will Hurd (R-TX), the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016 will test out electronic appointment scheduling for veterans seeking medical attention, with an option to expand the pilot program after 18 months. ”In the year 2016, there is no good reason that anyone should be stuck on hold for hours to schedule a simple doctor’s appointment—especially our nation’s veterans.” said Hurd. “This inefficiency is one of countless systematic failures that would put a private-sector company out of business. We must do more for our veterans and I thank my colleague Rep. Moulton for his leadership on the matter.” “Our nation’s veterans deserve the best healthcare in the world, period,” said Moulton. “As a Member of Congress, I declined congressional health care and pledged to receive my care at the VA. I receive excellent service from terrific doctors and nurses at my home VA facility in Massachusetts, but I also know that for far too long, our veterans have been underserved by outdated systems. It doesn’t have to be this way, and today I’m proud that the House came together to pass my bipartisan bill. This legislation will require the VA to use innovative technology in the private sector and drastically improve access to healthcare for our veterans.” Earlier this year, Rep. Hurd, who chairs the IT Subcommittee for Oversight and Government Reform, hosted a hearing with Moulton to discuss ways to improve veterans’ services by implementing modern technology. After releasing a viral video of one of his staffers struggling to schedule an appointment at the local VA hospital, Rep. Moulton spearheaded the Faster Care for Veterans Act. The bill was one of several that appeared in the House this week aimed at improving benefits for veterans and their families. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – With the support of U.S. Representative Will Hurd, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 which will provide $619billion in authorized defense funding. Among the bill’s provisions, service members will receive a 2.1 percent pay increase, the largest raise in six years, and incur no changes to out-of-pocket health care costs. This is the 55th year that the NDAA will be authorized by Congress. “With multiple bases in and around TX-23, this bill ensures stability for military families in my district, while strengthening our national security,” said Hurd. “By providing the necessary funding and tools that they need, we are standing by our brave men and women who make daily sacrifices to protect our liberty.” Highlights of the NDAA include: $619 billion for national defense, $9 billion over the President’s original budget request A 2.1% pay raise for our service members for the first time in 6 years; No changes to out-of-pocket health care costs for current force or retirees; Extended medical care capabilities at Military Treatment Facilities; No changes to Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), including dual military families; Investments in new, more effective equipment and capabilities; Increased resources for cybersecurity operations Hurd language to combat the flow of terrorists who return home after traveling and training abroad Acquisition reform to get the latest technology into the hands of service members faster and more efficiently Resources against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Asia; Increased accountability and Congressional oversight of senior civilian and military leadership; Organizational reform of the DoD to increase accountability, oversight, integration, and strategic thinking; Debt forgiveness to the California National Guard troops who were unfairly forced to pay back signing bonuses; Prohibition of prisoner transfers out of Guantanamo Bay facility; and, Reforms to the National Security Council by capping staff at 200 people The House approved the FY2016 NDAA by a final vote of 375-34.
12.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – With the support of U.S. Representative Will Hurd and in a rare and overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion, the House voted to advance landmark legislation that will overhaul the way we treat disease. The once-in-a-generation 21st Century Cures Act, is designed to expedite the discovery, development, and delivery of new medical treatments, maintaining America’s status as the leader in biomedical innovation. Among other benefits, the bill authorizes funds for rare disease medical research & development, mental illness treatment, foster care, tele-heath initiatives, and improvements in health record interoperability. The passage of the bill opens doors to innovation in modern medicines, devices, disease prevention, and treatment by ensuring funds for institutions like the National Institute of Health (NIH). “The United States has led the biomedical industry for generations, and if we want to keep up with the rest of the world, the policies coming out of Washington must encourage innovation,” said Hurd. “Since Texas conducts more clinical trials than most other states, this investment will have a catalytic impact on our local economy while we improve the health of people around the world.” “I’ve worked hard to use my chairmanship of the Information Technology Subcommittee to highlight the challenges, but also the opportunities, we face in embracing health IT. From wearable devices, to electronic health records and data analytics, innovators are changing the way we monitor and participate in the care we receive. The federal government simply isn’t keeping up and in many cases is stifling game changers that could increase the quality of life for millions of Americans and drive down costs. We still have a long way to go, but this legislation is a significant step in the right direction.” The 21st Century Cures Act will expedite the movement of life-saving discoveries through the maze of federal bureaucracy. It will also modernize the clinical trial process by becoming more adaptive to new techniques and technologies. Likewise, it makes significant investments in treating mental health and substance abuse while bolstering support for rural health providers. Many of the mental health reforms included in the bill are based on the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, which Hurd supported earlier this year. These landmark reforms will create new leadership for Mental Health and Substance Use to coordinate mental health programs across the federal government, strengthen the nation’s mental health workforce, and improve mental health care for children and adults who have experienced serious emotional disturbance. In response to the opioid abuse crisis plaguing the nation, the 21st Century Cures Act provides $1 billion in state grants to support and expand opioid abuse prevention and treatment programs. “By investing in 21st century cures, we can create jobs and make sure our nation stays on the cutting edge. But ultimately, this is about saving lives,” stated Hurd. ###
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Demonstrating his commitment to our nation’s veterans, U.S. Representative Will Hurd supported a series of bills this week that expand healthcare options, educational resources, and employment opportunities for veterans and their families. Highlights of the legislation that Hurd supported include: Establishing Health Savings Accounts for those who opt-out of Tricare Expanding eligibility for military headstones for Medal of Honor recipients that are buried in private cemeteries Establishing a five-day deadline for VA physicians to report unethical healthcare practices Requiring VA counselors to explain to veterans if their educational credits will transfer to specified educational institutions Enabling Congressional offices to access veterans benefits claims records directly without having to wait for the VA Directing the Department of Labor to establish a HIRE Vets Medallion Program to recognize employers that hire veterans Establishing a VA pilot program to treat veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, or opiate addiction with magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy “Veterans should be able to count on reliable healthcare, easily access their benefits, and have the ability to find a meaningful job when they leave the service. We must do more for the people that have sacrificed so much for our safety,” said Hurd, whose district is home to more than 45,000 veterans. “I’ll continue fighting to improve the services we offer Veterans and their families. They deserve nothing less.” ###
11.23.2016	San Antonio, TX – U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents over 800 miles of the Texas-Mexico border, returned Tuesday evening from meetings in Mexico City to promote North American competitiveness and energy security. Highlights of the 36-hour trip include: Meeting with U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Roberta Jacobson to discuss U.S. priorities in Mexico and border security Participating in a new office grand opening for the American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico Attending the Greater Houston Partnership Energy Business Forum highlighting the unique energy relationship between Texas and Mexico “U.S. trade with Mexico and Canada has more than tripled since NAFTA took effect in 1994, and the largest beneficiaries of this relationship are Texas businesses,” said Hurd after his trip. A report by the U.S. Department of Commerce found that Texas exported more than any other State in the Union in 2014 with just under $290 billion to countries worldwide, 61% of which went to U.S. free trade agreement partners. The state of Texas exported over $92 billion in goods and services to Mexico in 2015, making Mexico the state’s top export market, surpassing the size of the following four export markets combined. Additionally, according to the International Trade Administration, over one million U.S. jobs are supported by goods exported from Texas, helping contribute to the 11.5 million U.S. jobs supported by exports nationwide in 2015. Over 90 percent of Texas goods exporters are small and medium sized companies. “As the Representative of several border communities, and the largest stretch of US-Mexico Border in Congress, I recognize the unique relationship the United States, and Texas, shares with Mexico. I have made it a priority since being elected to foster understanding with my colleagues in Washington and to increase economic opportunity on both sides of the border. I have long said that we should view the border as a middle, not an edge, and I am committed to continuing this work in the years to come,” said Hurd. Hurd also emphasized the importance of the energy partnership between the U.S. and Mexico: "Even before Congress lifted the oil export ban, Texas Rep. Henry Cuellar and I were working with the Administration to approve oil swaps between Texas and Mexico, helping to strengthen this relationship and create jobs on both sides of the border." Energy production in Hurd's district is set to increase after the recent announcement that Wolfcamp shale in the Permian Basin has found an estimated 20 billion barrels of accessible oil, 16 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 1.6 billion barrels of natural gas liquids. “We have a great economic relationship with our partners to the south, and have worked hard to strengthen energy policy together. As continued energy exploration yields new discoveries, our access to Mexican markets is critical to the Texas economy and a key step in achieving North American Energy Security.”
11.18.2016	Washington, DC—To better transition our nation’s veterans into meaningful civilian careers, U.S. Senator John Cornyn and U.S. Representative Will Hurd have introduced companion legislation in the House and Senate designed to incentivize state and local governments to hire veterans as law enforcement officers. The American Law Enforcement Heroes Act, HR 6380, is based on a successful pilot program from the 1990’s, and prioritizes existing grant funding for agencies that hire veterans. “Nearly one-third of all Bexar County Sheriff’s Department and San Antonio Police Department officers are vets, setting an example we’d like to see nationwide,” said Hurd, who recently met with Cornyn and leaders from both agencies to discuss the impact of the bill. “For many veterans, the call to service doesn’t go away and this is an easy way to ensure that service continues right here at home. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this bill to the President’s desk.” “The experience and sacrifice of our military service members has equipped them with valuable skills that can keep our community safe,” Sen. Cornyn said. “Encouraging state and local governments to hire veterans will both bolster the strength of our law enforcement, and help our heroes transition from military service into civilian life.” ### Cornyn, Hurd a incentivar los Departamentos de Policía a Contratar a Veteranos ‘La llamada a servir continua en casa’ Washington, DC – Para mejorar la transición de los veteranos de nuestra nación a carreras civiles significantes, el Senador estadounidense John Cornyn y el Representante Will Hurd han introducido legislación conjunta en la Cámara de Representantes y el Senadodiseñadas a incentivar a gobiernos locales y estatales a contratar a veteranos como agentes de policía. La Acta de Héroes Americanos del Orden Publico, HR 6380, esta basado de un exitosoprograma piloto de los 1990’s y le da prioridad a fondos de subsidios existentes para las agencias que contratan a veteranos. “Casi la tercera parte de todos los oficiales en el Departamento de Sheriffs del Condado de Bexar y el Departamento de Policía de San Antonio son veteranos, demostrando un ejemplo de lo que deseamos ver nacionalmente,” dijo Hurd, quien recientemente se reunió con Cornyn y líderes de las dos agencias para discutir el impacto del proyecto de ley. “Para varios veteranos, la llamada a servir no se desaparece y esta es una manera fácil para asegurar que el servicio continúe aquí en casa. Espero colaborar con mis colegas de ambos partidos para mandar este proyecto de ley al escritorio del Presidente.” “La experiencia y sacrificio de nuestros miembros del servicio militar los a equipado con habilidades valiosas para mantener la seguridad de nuestra comunidad,” dijo Sen. Cornyn. “Animando al gobierno local y estatal a contratar a veteranos reforzara la fuerza de nuestro orden publico y ayudara a nuestros héroes con la transición del servicio militar a una vida civil.”
11.18.2016	Washington, DC—Many Border Patrol Agents and Custom’s Officers who work daily to secure our borders will finally be provided financial certainty, thanks to a bill that passed the Senate on Thursday evening and has been sent to the President’s desk. The bill, authored by U.S. Representative Will Hurd, standardizes overtime pay within U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) for those who patrol our border specifically by aircraft and vessel, providing certainty to agents who work long hours, and resulting in cost savings of approximately $2 million each year. Under current law, these agents are subject to separate overtime pay procedures that result in confusing and inconsistent paychecks. “Imagine risking your life to confront a violent cartel, only to take home less pay than you did the month before, for equal work. This is what’s been happening over and over to the people who work long hours to secure our border,” said Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the Texas-Mexico border. “We owe clear, consistent, and fair payment policies to the families that sacrifice so much, and I’ll continue to fight for the CBP officers who often put their lives on the line for our safety.” The bill was previously approved unanimously in the House of Representatives, and will be the freshman Congressman’s sixth bill to be signed into law by the President. In May 2015, a previous Hurd bill was signed into law that stabilized the paychecks for Border Patrol Agents who were facing a deep cut in their pay, despite working the same number of hours. ###
11.15.2016	Washington, DC – With the Iran Sanctions Act set to expire at the end of the year, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted with 418 of his colleagues to extend industry sanctions due to Iran’s obstinate nuclear and ballistic missile testing. “It is foolish to allow sanctions to expire when there is no evidence that Iran has held up its end of the deal,” said Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer who has been outspoken against President Obama’s controversial Iran nuclear agreement. “There must be consequences when hostile nations develop illicit nuclear programs, and Iran should be no different. We have to stop rewarding insolence and start protecting Americans and our allies.” Iran has continued testing ballistic missiles in violation of UN Security Council resolutions. The most recent test occurred this past July, when Iran reportedly tested a missile made using North Korean technology. Before that, two medium-range ballistic missiles were tested in March. In total, Iran has tested four ballistic missiles since the JCPOA came into effect and has recently surpassed the maximum possession of Heavy Water permitted under the agreement. In response to Iran’s actions, Hurd continued, “Iran is still our adversary. They certainly haven’t forgotten that. This administration would be wise to remember that as well.” The Iran Sanctions Extensions Act passed the House and has been sent to the Senate. ###
11.14.2016	San Antonio, TX – U.S. Representative Will Hurd is pleased to announce the selection of the Marathon Water Supply and Sewer Service Corporation (WS&SS) for two grants totaling more than $230,000 for water improvement projects. Both grants are awarded from the EPA’s Project Development Assistance Program which is administered by Border Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC). The first will fund a water audit in the town of Marathon, located 47 miles from the US-Mexico border. The second will be used to complete the final design documents to allow WW&SS to improve and expand water services to more than 750 area residents. “With these federal resources, local operators will be able to better identify water losses and prioritize improvements for sanitization and preservation,” said Hurd, who represents Marathon, located in Brewster County. “I commend the BECC and NADB for looking out for the best interests of Marathon residents and the West Texas environment.” "The BECC and North American Development Bank are pleased to support communities like Marathon, Texas," said Maria Elena Giner, General Manager of the BECC. "In this instance, the grant will fund a water audit to determine how much water is being lost and provide recommendations on training and improvements to the physical infrastructure." You can learn more about the North American Development Bank and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission at www.nadb.org and www.becc.org. ###
10.19.2016	Eagle Pass, TX – In order to alleviate traffic along the border, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) announced a transformative construction project to widen U.S. 277 through Maverick, Kinney, and Val Verde counties. Funding for the project was made possible by U.S. Representatives Will Hurd and Henry Cuellar’s legislative effort allowing states to use federal dollars on border infrastructure. “Families and businesses in towns like Eagle Pass, Del Rio, Presidio and El Paso know just how vital border trade and commerce is for our economy and community,” said Hurd whose bipartisan Coordinated Border Infrastructure bill, HR 3181, was included in the FAST Act, the first long term highway bill in over a decade, making these funds possible. “We must continue to invest in border infrastructure, so that trade is facilitated, benefiting every part of our state. It’s been a pleasure to work with my colleagues, local, and state officials to ensure that we are building bridges with Mexico, our state’s largest trading partner.” “TxDOT is glad to utilize funds made possible thru FAST (2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation) to continue infrastructure improvements along US 277 within Maverick, Kinney and Val Verde counties. We are pleased that these federal funds not only serve to upgrade transportation corridors for citizens in the area but also serve to upgrade the economic corridor known as Port to Plains reaching from Mexico to Canada,” said TxDOT Chief Engineer Bill Hale. “Our priority as a community and elected officials is to provided safer routes for our constituents to travel by and still afford opportunities for travel and international trade to flow in between,” said Eagle Pass Mayor Ramsey English Cantu. “With these projects, TXDOT has provided communities along Maverick, Kinney & Val Verde Counties the opportunity to continue experiencing the growth of economic and social activity.” Maverick County Judge David Saucedo emphasized, “Safety is one big issue that people traveling between Eagle Pass and Del Rio deal with on a regular basis. These funds will impact the security of our residents, as well as have a positive economic impact on our communities.” “It’s clear that the Coordinated Border Infrastructure language would not have passed through Congress if not for the efforts of Congressmen Will Hurd and Henry Cuellar, and Senator Cornyn,” stated Kinney County Judge Tully Shahan. “Kinney County residents will definitely benefit from the expansion of this corridor and I appreciate the efforts of Congressman Hurd to help ensure the safety of travelers on U.S. 277.” U.S. 277 will be upgraded to 5-lanes in eastern Eagle Pass from FM 3443 to State Loop 480, and upgraded with two passing lanes through Maverick, Kinney, and Val Verde counties. Bid letting is scheduled for summer 2017 for construction in subsequent months. ###
10.17.2016	San Antonio, TX – The Alliance for Patient Access (AfPA) announced that Texas Congressman Will Hurd is being honored for his commitment to protecting seniors’ access to Medicare. “Millions of seniors, like my parents, rely upon the Medicare program and we must keep our promise to ensure that access is never interrupted,” said Hurd, who was also honored earlier this year as the only Texan to receive the Rising Community Health Center Leader by the National Association of Community Health Centers. “I will continue to work hard to ensure that Medicare is a strong program, not only for today’s seniors, but for the generations to come as well.” “On behalf of the Alliance for Patient Access (AfPA), I would like to thank Congressman Hurd for his commitment to our seniors,” said Brian Kennedy, Executive Director of AfPA. “His work to ensure seniors' access to medicine and optimal care makes him a true Medicare champion.” AfPA is a national patient advocacy organization whose members work for continued patient access to approved therapies and clinical care. Each year they identify Representatives who seek to protect Medicare through their work in Congress. ### Cong_Hurd Med Part B AfPA Award 2016.pdf
10.14.2016	San Antonio, TX—At a roundtable with local law enforcement leaders, San Antonio natives Senator John Cornyn and Congressman Will Hurd announced a new joint-initiative to better transition our nation’s veterans into meaningful civilian careers. Their new companion legislation is designed to incentivize state and local governments to hire American veterans as new law enforcement officers. “We owe our freedom to these heroes and must do a better job facilitating their transition back home. One of the ways we can do this is by providing opportunities for them to continue to serve,” said Hurd, who served along members of the Armed Forces during his nearly decade of service in the CIA. “Prioritizing federal grants to law enforcement departments that hire veterans is a no-brainer. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this bill to the President’s desk.” “This legislation will support veterans as they transition back to their communities, and will also help our law enforcement agencies attract well-qualified, service-oriented individuals,” stated Cornyn. “It’s a win-win for both law enforcement and our men and women in uniform, and I’m proud to partner with Rep. Hurd on this initiative.” Modeled after an expired program called Troops to COPS which helped almost 1,000 veterans in the late 1990s, the Cornyn-Hurd legislation will codify an existing administration process, ensuring long-term permanency in the program. The legislation will be introduced in the Senate and House when Congress returns to Washington in the fall. ###
10.13.2016	San Antonio, TX -- Today, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) presented U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX-23) with the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at an event hosted by NAM member Toyota of Texas at their facility in San Antonio. “Manufacturing impacts almost every aspect of our lives, from how we treat illnesses to the cars we drive. These businesses are innovators that push this nation forward and it is critical that we keep unnecessary government regulations out of the way so that we can continue to expand opportunity,” said Hurd, who represents San Antonio. “I am proud to receive the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award from an industry that employs some 60,000 San Antonians and has an economic impact of over $22 billion on our city.” “Manufacturers need leaders in Washington who are going to fight for us. Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Texas is proud to present this award to Representative Hurd. His votes for pro-manufacturing, pro-growth policies demonstrate he cares about manufacturing’s future,” said David Crouch, Vice President of Administration and Production Control with Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Texas, Inc. “Manufacturers in Texas and across the country are changing lives for the better—through the jobs we create and the products we make. Manufacturing is about improving the human condition, one innovation at a time,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Rep. Hurd is helping to make our success possible by standing with manufacturers when it matters and casting the right votes." “Manufacturers employ over 12 million men and women in the U.S., who are making everything from lifesaving medicines to the most cutting edge technology,” added Timmons. “The strength of manufacturing in America is responsible for the success of America in the world. When manufacturing succeeds, America succeeds, so Rep. Hurd’s consistent support for manufacturing means he is supporting a better future for all Americans.” ###
10.03.2016	Fort Stockton, TX—For his outstanding representation of the West Texas agriculture industry, U.S. Representative Will Hurd was presented with the Friend of Farm Bureau Award at the Pecos-Reeves Farm Bureau annual meeting. “My district is home to over 9,000 farms and ranches that employ thousands more hard-working people,” said Hurd. “Every day in Washington, I fight for policy tools, support, and the freedom for them to grow products and manage their land as they best see fit. The livelihood of Texas farmers is critical to our economy at large, and I am proud to support the hardworking folks that put clothes on our backs and food on our tables.” Hurd continued, “It is an honor to receive this award from the Texas Farm Bureau, and I look forward to serving them for years to come.” “Congressman Hurd understands the government-created obstacles that family-owned farms and ranches face every day, especially in a time when we should be encouraging the next generation of young farmers to continue to keep Texas families fed and clothed,” said Texas Farm Bureau State Director Ronnie Muennink. “We’re grateful for our close working relationship with the Congressman and his staff, and for his commitment to strengthening the farming and ranching economy that is the very foundation of our West Texas life.” "Congressman Hurd always makes you feel welcome; he always listens to the issues. He is a true American and representative of the people," said Warren Cude, Pecos County Farm Bureau President, in response to the award. Organized in 1933, the Texas Farm Bureau has grown from a small farm organization to the largest, most influential group of farmers, ranchers and rural families in the state of Texas, with over 500,000 member families. The Pecos-Reeves County Farm Bureau proudly services 1,300 members across eight Texas counties, including Culberson, Brewster, Jeff Davis, Pecos, Presidio, Reeves, Terrell and Ward. ### Cutline: Rep. Hurd receives the Friend of Farm Bureau Award from Warren Cude, Pecos County Farm Bureau President, and Billy Howe, Texas Farm Bureau Government Affairs Director.
09.29.2016	Washington, DC— After a year-long effort championed by local veterans groups and community leaders, U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bill to honor a local military veteran has been signed into law by the President. Under the new law, the Tornillo Port of Entry in El Paso County will be named after Private Marcelino Serna, the most decorated WWI veteran from Texas. “This month, as a nation we are honoring Hispanic-Americans for their numerous contributions to our country, making the signing of this bill into law very special indeed, said Hurd, who represents the Tornillo area where Serna lived. “Private Serna and countless other Hispanic-Americans who served with distinction in our military deserve to be honored and praised for their sacrifice and courage. The Tornillo-Marcelino Serna Port of Entry will be a constant reminder that the land of the free owes so much to these brave individuals.” “I can’t thank Senator John Cornyn enough for his efforts to make sure this bill passed the Senate in a timely manner,” Hurd continued. “Private Serna’s dedication to his country is an inspiring example for all of us, and I’m proud to recognize his service at a such an important juncture for the U.S.-Mexico relationship," said Sen. Cornyn. “I'm pleased to partner with Congressman Hurd in this effort to honor a valued member of the El Paso community and someone who truly went above and beyond the call of duty." Ms. Gloria Serna, the surviving daughter of Marcelino Serna responded to the news. “I thank Representative Hurd for working towards naming the Tornillo Port of Entry after my Father’s name. My family is all very grateful and honored that this is finally happening.” Ms. Serna’s daughter, Laura Stopani, added, “I'm so happy that my grandfather is finally being honored. We are very proud of my grandfather. He was a good man, he didn’t do this for any recognition; he did all this for the love of his country. He came to this country, and he said ‘I'll fight for it’ and he did, and we are very proud of him. We appreciate everything Representative Hurd has done to honor my grandfather very much. We are very grateful to Representative Hurd to have given my grandfather this honor.” Tina Martinez, the Secretary of the Texas Women’s Chapter of the American GI Forum, offered the following comment. “I would like to congratulate the Serna family and thank Congressman Will Hurd and all the Veterans organizations who helped recognize Texas most decorated World War I hero, Army Pvt. Marcelino Serna.” "The renaming of the Tornillo Port of Entry after U.S. Private Marcelino Serna commemorates the life of a great Mexican-American who served his country honorably being the most decorated WWI Veteran from Texas. The port will also honor the sacrifices countless other Latinos have made while serving their country. LULAC thanks Congressman Will Hurd and Senator John Cornyn for their efforts in making this tribute a reality," said Roger C. Rocha Jr., LULAC National President. "On behalf of the American Legion Post 36, I am extremely grateful and proud that the proposal to rename the Tornillo Port of Entry after PVT Marcelino Serna was approved. It is even more gratifying to our post members because our First Vice Commander, Robert Serna is the hero's nephew. Having the port of entry in Tornillo renamed after PVT Serna will bring attention to his life and his heroic accomplishments and will serve as a source of pride for citizens of both the United States and Mexico," said Ruben Carrasco, Commander of the American Legion, Post 36 in El Paso. “On behalf of the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) Chapter 574, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post 10354, we express our appreciation for supporting HR 5252 (Naming of the port of entry to Marcelino Serna).The VVA and VFW both extend our thanks to our current Congress for the passing of this HR bill, as it means much to our El Paso, Texas community, as an honor that is way overdue,” submitted in a joint statement from Humberto Nevarez, President of the VVA Chapter 574, and Robert Rangel, Commander of VFW Post 10354, of El Paso. This is Hurd’s fifth piece of legislation to become law during his freshman term in Congress. ### Puerto de entrada oficialmente renombrado en honor de héroe de la Primera Guerra Mundial, Marcelino Serna. ‘Serna merece ser honrado por su sacrificio y valentía’ "Agradezco al Congresista Hurd por su fuerte trabajo en el nombramiento del Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en nombre de mi padre. Mi familia está muy agradecida y honrada que esto finalmente se está realizando". Gloria Serna, hija de PVT Serna. Washington, DC— Después de un año de arduo trabajo por grupos de veteranos locales y líderes de la comunidad, el acto legislativo del congresista Will Hurd para honrar al veterano de guerra local ha sido firmado por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos para constituirse en ley. Bajo la nueva ley, el Puerto de Entrada “El Tornillo” en el condado de El Paso será renombrado en honor del privado Marcelino Serna, el más condecorado veterano de la Primera Guerra Mundial en Texas. “Este mes, como nación estamos honrando a los miembros de la comunidad hispano-americana por sus numerosas contribuciones a nuestro país, convertir este proyecto de ley en ley es algo sumamente especial,” dijo Hurd, quien representa el área del Tornillo, donde Serna vivía. “El Privado Serna, así como otros innumerables hispano-americanos que han servido con distinción en nuestras fuerzas armadas merecen ser honrados y alabados por su sacrificio y valentía. El Puerto de Entrada Tornillo-Marcelino Serna será un recordatorio constante que la tierra de la libertad les debe mucho a estos valientes individuos.” “No puedo agradecer lo suficiente al Senador John Cornyn por sus esfuerzos para asegurarse que este proyecto fuera aprobado por el senado sin demoras,” continuo Hurd. “La dedicación del Privado Serna para su país es un ejemplo de inspiración para todos, y estoy muy orgulloso de poder reconocer su servicio en un momento tan importante para la relación entre México y Estado Unidos,” mencionó el Senador Cornyn. “Me complace haberme unido con el Congresista Hurd en sus esfuerzos para honrar a un valioso miembro de la comunidad de El Paso, alguien que realmente entrego de más en su línea del deber para servir a su país.” La Sra. Gloria Serna, hija sobreviviente de Marcelino Serna respondió a esta noticia con lo siguiente. “Agradezco al Congresista Hurd por su arduo esfuerzo en el nombramiento del Puerto de Entrada Tornillo en nombre de mi padre. Mi familia se encuentra muy agradecida y honrada que esto finalmente se esté realizando”. Laura Stopani, hija de la Sra. Serna, añadió, "Me encuentro muy feliz porque mi abuelo finalmente está siendo honrado. Estamos muy orgullosos de mi abuelo, él era un buen hombre, sus hazañas no fueron realizadas para recibir ningún reconocimiento; él hizo todo esto por amor a su país. Él llego a los Estados Unidos diciendo: ‘luchare por este país,' y lo hizo, y estamos muy orgullosos de él por haberlo logrado. Apreciamos todo lo que el Congresista Hurd ha hecho para honrar a mi abuelo, estamos muy agradecidos con el Congresista por haber otorgado este honor a mi abuelo." Tina Martínez, Secretaria del capítulo de mujeres del foro americano GI (“Secretary of the Texas Women’s Chapter of the American GI Forum”) ofreció el siguiente comentario: “Quisiera felicitar a la familia Serna, y agradecer al congresista Will Hurd así como a todas las organizaciones de veteranos quienes apoyaron a reconocer al más condecorado veterano de la primera Guerra mundial, el Heroé Pvt. Marcelino Serna.” “El renombramiento del Puente de entrada el Tornillo en nombre del privado Marcelino Serna, conmemora la ida de un gran México Americano quien sirvió a su país de una manera honrada, siendo el veterano de Guerra más condecorado de la primera Guerra mundial. El Puerto de entrada también honrara a innumerables otros latinos que se han sacrificado por servir a su país. LULAC agradece al congresista Hurd, y al senador John Cornyn por sus esfuerzos en convertir este tribute en una realidad” dijo Roger C. Rocha Jr. presidente nacional de LULAC. "En nombre de la Legión Americana Post 36, estoy muy agradecido y orgulloso que se aprobó la propuesta de cambiar el nombre del Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en honor al Soldado Marcelino Serna. Es aún más gratificante a nuestros miembros porque nuestro Primer Vice Comandante, Roberto Serna es sobrino del héroe. Teniendo el Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo nombrado en honor a Serna traerá atención a su vida y sus logros heroicos y servirá como una fuente de orgullo para los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos y México, dijo Rubén Carrasco, comandante de la Legión Americana Puesto 36 en El Paso. "En nombre de los Veteranos de Vietnam de América (VVA) Capítulo 574 y de los Veteranos de Guerras Extranjeras (VFW) Post 10354, expresamos nuestro agradecimiento por apoyar a H.R. 5252 (Nombramiento del Puerto de Entrada a Marcelino Serna). El VVA y VFW expresamos nuestro agradecimiento a nuestro Congreso para la aprobación de este proyecto de ley, pues significa mucho para nuestra comunidad de El Paso, Texas, como un honor que es merecido,” fue la declaración conjunta de Humberto Nevarez, Presidente de la VVA Capítulo 574 y Robert Rangel, Comandante de VFW Post 10354, de El Paso. Es el quinto proyecto que Hurd ha dirigido en ley.
09.26.2016	San Antonio, TX – The NSA (National Security Agency) has officially awarded the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) a grant of $471,549 for the 2016 Cyber P3 - Cyber Solider Development Grant Program. The initiative will produce highly qualified cyber warriors with advanced knowledge, mission-critical skills and military expertise, trained to protect and defend the nation from persistent threats, cyber terrorists and international criminal networks. The funding will support scholarships for members of the Army Reserve and capacity building activities over a one-year period. “Increasing our cybersecurity resources, training, and capability is a win for the entire San Antonio community,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a cybersecurity entrepreneur who championed UTSA’s selection as a founding member of the Army Reserve Cyber Private Public Partnership Program (Cyber P3). “This type of cooperation between our leading educational institutions, public, and private sectors will strengthen our workforce, create new jobs, and continue to elevate San Antonio as a world leader in cybersecurity.” “It’s thrilling to see the top-tier excellence of our cybersecurity faculty and researchers recognized in this opportunity to serve our armed forces and aid in protecting our nation right here in San Antonio, Military City, USA,” said UTSA President Ricardo Romo. ###
09.23.2016	San Antonio, TX – In response to increasing traffic and population growth, Texas Transportation Commissioner Bruce Bugg announced TxDOT’s plan to allocate $90 million in improvements along Highway 410, between U.S. Highway 90 and State Highway 151, on San Antonio’s far west side. The project is made possible due to Congressional Passage of the FAST Act, which provided long-term funding certainty for critical transportation projects for the first time in ten years. “Blocked roadways do more damage than just making people late—they discourage commerce and economic development. The announcement is important for many residents of my district, especially those who commute to Lackland Air Force Base and Port San Antonio,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, which includes many neighborhoods near the project. “I was proud to support the FAST Act, allocating resources to Texas so that we can finally tackle our infrastructure problems in a thoughtful, long-term way. The Commission clearly understands the traffic challenges that San Antonio is facing, and I commend Commissioner Bugg for his leadership in relieving existing and projected congestion.” “This project is just one of many which is part of the statewide congestion relief initiatives known as TexasClearLanes,” said Texas Transportation Commissioner J. Bruce Bugg Jr. “There is a sense of urgency at the local level to start as many congestion relief projects in San Antonio and in other major metropolitan areas with populations over 1 million to improve movement of people and goods around our great state.” “I applaud Congressman Hurd’s dedication. This area is the most rapidly growing side of the County with over 500,000 people expected to move here within the next few years. This project will go a long way to help get folks moving,” stated Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff. The project is scheduled for completion by winter of 2020. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s major federal IT reform package was passed this week with overwhelming bipartisan support and was sent to the Senate. The Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act would reduce wasteful spending on outdated IT and enhance information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to modern technology like cloud computing. Hurd’s initiative was a bipartisan effort that built on work by Representatives from both sides of the aisle. After originally introducing the MOVE IT Act, Hurd worked with Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), who had introduced competing legislation, and Reps. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and Robin Kelly (D-IL) to achieve a bipartisan solution addressing the egregious waste of over $60B a year. “Many parts of the Federal Government’s IT infrastructure are stuck in the Stone Age,” said Hurd, who chairs the House IT Subcommittee and has championed multiple initiatives to move government into the 21st Century. “The MGT Act will save taxpayer dollars, increase government accountability, and help government be more efficient in serving the American people.” “The federal government must come into the 21st century. We owe it to the people we serve,” said Rep. Connolly on the House floor today. “We need to streamline the management of IT assets. We need to make strategic and wise investments and we need to have a schedule of replacement for legacy systems. We need to encrypt and protect against cyberattacks for the sake of the American people. ”The Modernizing Government Technology Act is another piece in the puzzle we are putting together to move federal IT systems into the 21st century.” “PSC welcomes seeing the bipartisan ‘Modernizing Government Technology Act,’ HR 6004, being readied for action by the full House of Representatives. This is exactly the type of legislation that balances the important needs of federal agencies with appropriate controls and congressional oversight. We thank Mr. Hurd, Mr. Connolly, and all members for their action to improve government information technology operations. We are confident that this bill can, and will, be enacted into law,” said David Berteau, president and CEO of the Professional Services Council (PSC). "The government's outdated funding system locks federal agencies in a cycle of keeping outdated IT systems going with the digital equivalent of duct tape, instead of investing in the new technologies they need," said Trey Hodgkins, senior vice president for the IT Alliance for Public Sector, a division of tech group ITI. "The Modernizing Government Technology Act creates an environment where federal agencies can adopt new technologies like cloud computing and strengthen their cybersecurity. We hope the House’s strong bipartisan approval of the bill compels Senators to act and improve upon this important national security measure." ###
09.20.2016	Washington, DC—In the wake of the most recent terror plots in Minnesota, New York, and New Jersey, the House of Representatives responded by passing a bill that will directly assist local first responders across the country. The bill, introduced by Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul and other Committee Members, including U.S. Representative Will Hurd, would make $39 million in grant funding available to emergency response providers to better prevent and prepare for terrorist attacks. Emergency response providers in San Antonio and El Paso metropolitan areas would be eligible for grants. “Three American cities faced serious terrorist threats this past weekend alone. Adequate training, preparation, and flexibility of our first responders can be the difference between incurring casualties or fatalities in these increasingly common situations,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who sits on the Committee of Homeland Security. “We need to do everything we can to equip our local law enforcement and EMS teams with the tools they need to protect our communities against the continuously evolving threat. This bill offers additional financial assistance to the communities that are most at risk.” "The City is pleased that the proposed legislation to create a Counterterrorism Training and Exercise Grant Program for major metropolitan areas in the United States is one step closer to becoming a reality. Specialized Homeland Security planning, training, and conducting exercises is essential for the City's first responders in preparing for and protecting our residents against a possible act of terrorism. I commend Congressman Mike McCaul and Congressman Will Hurd in their effort to support this initiative," said Chief Lawrence Trevino, San Antonio Emergency Management Coordinator. ###
09.20.2016	Washington, DC—In response to significant changes in modes of travel, the House of Representatives passed the Modernizing Government Travel (MGT) Act, led by freshman lawmakers U.S. Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX) and Seth Moulton (D-MA). The MGT Act allows government employees to utilize ridesharing apps, such as Uber and Lyft, and bikeshare programs for official business. The option to summon a ride via smartphone gives millions of federal employees greater flexibility, saves taxpayer dollars, and brings government travel into the 21st Century. “The federal government does not have to lag behind-the-times with antiquated policies. With simple updates like the MGT Act, we can become more attractive as an employer, more efficient in getting people where they need to go, and save taxpayer dollars while doing so,” said Rep. Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “This bill finally allows federal agencies to catch up with the private sector and moves the needle toward a more innovative and responsive government.” “Our bipartisan bill ensures that innovative and cost-effective modes of transportation are available to the thousands of federal employees in Washington and Massachusetts for official travel,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “We know that this increased engagement in the sharing economy will reduce federal spending and by passing our bill today, the House has agreed to our idea that we can save taxpayer dollars by bringing government travel into the 21st century." “Millions of Americans rely on Lyft's convenient, affordable rides when traveling for work, and we appreciate the House passage of legislation to allow federal workers to utilize transportation choices that include ridesharing,” said Joe Okpaku, Lyft's Vice President of Government Relations. “We want to thank Representatives Hurd, Moulton, Swalwell and Issa for their continued support of innovative, modern options like Lyft.” "Thank you to Congressman Hurd and Congressman Moulton for working hard to move this legislation forward in the House and to those members who have introduced similar legislation in the Senate. Uber is committed to providing reliable transportation at the push of a button for everyone, everywhere, including those working in the federal government," said Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber.
09.19.2016	“I thank Representative Hurd for working towards naming the Tornillo Port of Entry after my Father’s name. My family is all very grateful and honored that this is finally happening.” Washington, DC—With an outpouring of bipartisan support, the Senate unanimously approved U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bill to rename the Tornillo Port of Entry in El Paso County after Private Marcelino Serna, the most decorated WWI veteran from Texas. The renaming marks a complex year-long effort championed by local veterans groups and community leaders to adequately honor the local hero. “The veteran community has been championing this issue for many years, and it is an honor to deliver on their wishes,” said Rep. Hurd who represents the Tornillo area where Serna lived. “The Tornillo-Marcelino Serna Port of Entry will not only honor this extraordinary man’s service to our nation, it will serve as a reminder of the countless Hispanic-American immigrants who have fought valiantly to keep our nation safe.” “My thanks to Senator John Cornyn for his efforts to move this bill through the Senate so that it can be sent to the President’s desk during the month we celebrate how Hispanic-Americans have contributed to our nation,” Hurd continued. “Private Serna’s dedication to his country is an inspiring example for all of us, and I’m proud to recognize his service at a such an important juncture for the U.S.-Mexico relationship," said Sen. Cornyn. “I'm pleased to partner with Congressman Hurd in this effort to honor a valued member of the El Paso community and someone who truly went above and beyond the call of duty." Ms. Gloria Serna, the surviving daughter of Marcelino Serna responded to the news. “I thank Representative Hurd for working towards naming the Tornillo Port of Entry after my Father’s name. My family is all very grateful and honored that this is finally happening.” Ms. Serna’s daughter, Laura Stopani, added, “I'm so happy that my grandfather is finally being honored. We are very proud of my grandfather. He was a good man, he didn’t do this for any recognition; he did all this for the love of his country. He came to this country, and he said ‘I'll fight for it’ and he did, and we are very proud of him. We appreciate everything Representative Hurd has done to honor my grandfather very much. We are very grateful to Representative Hurd to have given my grandfather this honor.” "On behalf of the American Legion Post 36, I am extremely grateful and proud that the proposal to rename the Tornillo Port of Entry after PVT Marcelino Serna was approved. It is even more gratifying to our post members because our First Vice Commander, Robert Serna is the hero's nephew. Having the port of entry in Tornillo renamed after PVT Serna will bring attention to his life and his heroic accomplishments and will serve as a source of pride for citizens of both the United States and Mexico," said Ruben Carrasco, Commander of the American Legion, Post 36 in El Paso. “On behalf of the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) Chapter 574, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post 10354, we express our appreciation for supporting HR 5252 (Naming of the port of entry to Marcelino Serna).The VVA and VFW both extend our thanks to our current Congress for the passing of this HR bill, as it means much to our El Paso, Texas community, as an honor that is way overdue,” submitted in a joint statement from Humberto Nevarez, President of the VVA Chapter 574, and Robert Rangel, Commander of VFW Post 10354, of El Paso. "The renaming of the Tornillo Port of Entry after U.S. Private Marcelino Serna commemorates the life of a great Mexican-American who served his country honorably being the most decorated WWI Veteran from Texas. The port will also honor the sacrifices countless other Latinos have made while serving their country. LULAC thanks Congressman Will Hurd and Senator John Cornyn for their efforts in making this tribute a reality," said Roger C. Rocha Jr., LULAC National President. The bill now heads to the President’s desk, and will become Hurd’s fifth piece of legislation to become law during his freshman term in Congress. ### Legislación de Hurd Cambiara el Nombre del Puente Fronterizo de Tornillo En Honor Al Héroe de Guerra Local Serna ‘Un recordatorio de los innumerables inmigrantes hispanos que han luchado valientemente para proteger a nuestra nación' Washington, DC— Con una demostración de apoyo bipartidista, el Senado aprobó unánimemente el proyecto de ley del Representante Estadounidense Will Hurd que cambiara el nombre del Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en el Condado de El Paso en honor al soldado Marcelino Serna, el veterano más condecorado de Texas de la Primera Guerra Mundial. Este cambio marca un complejo esfuerzo de un año apoyado por grupos locales de veteranos y líderes de la comunidad para honrar adecuadamente al héroe local. La comunidad veterana ha apoyado este asunto durante muchos años y me es un honor poder cumplir sus deseos," dice el Congresista Hurd, quien representa el área de Tornillo donde vivió Serna. "El Puerto de Entrada Tornillo-Marcelino Serna no honrará solamente el servicio de este hombre extraordinario hacia nuestra nación, servirá como un recordatorio de los innumerables inmigrantes hispanos que han luchado valientemente para proteger a nuestra nación". "Mi agradecimiento al senador John Cornyn por sus esfuerzos en avanzar este proyecto de ley en el Senado para enviarlo al escritorio del Presidente durante el mes en que celebramos las contribuciones de los Hispanos para nuestro país," continuó Hurd. Sra. Gloria Serna, la hija sobreviviente de Marcelino Serna respondió a la noticia. "Agradezco al Congresista Hurd por su fuerte trabajo en el nombramiento del Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en nombre de mi padre. Mi familia está muy agradecida y honrada que esto finalmente se está realizando". Laura Stopani, hija de la Sra. Serna, añadió, "estoy muy feliz que mi abuelo finalmente está siendo honrado. Estamos muy orgullosos de mi abuelo. Él era un buen hombre, no hizo esto por reconocimiento; él hizo todo esto por amor a su país. Él vino a este país y dijo ‘luchare por él' y lo hizo, y estamos muy orgullosos de él. Apreciamos todo lo que el Congresista Hurd ha hecho para honrar a mi abuelo. Estamos muy agradecidos con el Congresista Hurd por haberle dado este honor a mi abuelo." "En nombre de la Legión Americana Post 36, estoy muy agradecido y orgulloso que se aprobó la propuesta de cambiar el nombre del Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en honor al Soldado Marcelino Serna. Es aún más gratificante a nuestros miembros porque nuestro Primer Vice Comandante, Roberto Serna es sobrino del héroe. Teniendo el Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo nombrado en honor a Serna traerá atención a su vida y sus logros heroicos y servirá como una fuente de orgullo para los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos y México, dijo Rubén Carrasco, comandante de la Legión Americana Puesto 36 en El Paso. "En nombre de los Veteranos de Vietnam de América (VVA) Capítulo 574 y de los Veteranos de Guerras Extranjeras (VFW) Post 10354, expresamos nuestro agradecimiento por apoyar a H.R. 5252 (Nombramiento del Puerto de Entrada a Marcelino Serna). El VVA y VFW expresamos nuestro agradecimiento a nuestro Congreso para la aprobación de este proyecto de ley, pues significa mucho para nuestra comunidad de El Paso, Texas, como un honor que es merecido,” fue la declaración conjunta de Humberto Nevarez, Presidente de la VVA Capítulo 574 y Robert Rangel, Comandante de VFW Post 10354, de El Paso. Se espera que esta legislación sea firmada por el Presidente en los próximos días, marcando la quinta legislación de Hurd en convertirse en ley durante su primer período en el Congreso. Una ceremonia de anuncio se está planeando en Tornillo en las próximas semanas.
09.15.2016	Washington, DC—U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s federal IT reform initiative gained traction in the House after twenty-one months of fact-finding and advocacy. As a follow up to Hurd’s previously introduced MOVE IT Act, Hurd worked with a number of leaders and authors of similar legislation, including House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), to develop a comprehensive IT reform package that saves taxpayer dollars and modernizes government IT. In a display of true bipartisanship, Hurd partnered with thought-leaders on both sides of the aisle to best accomplish this goal, including Representatives Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) to introduce the Modernizing Government Technology (MGT) Act. The bipartisan legislation would reduce wasteful spending on outdated IT and enhance information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to cloud computing. “Last year, the federal government spent $80 billion on IT systems, 80 percent of which was spent maintaining outdated, legacy systems. We don’t have to be stuck in the Stone Age,” said Rep. Hurd. “A move to growing technologies like the cloud can help keep our information secure, while saving billions of dollars. It’s time to stop wasting tax dollars and move government into the 21st Century.” “The Modernizing Government Technology Act is another piece in the puzzle we are putting together to move federal IT systems into the 21st century. It will build on the success of FITARA by investing savings in retiring dated, legacy systems and accelerating our transition to the cloud. I am glad to partner with Rep. Hurd on this effort and look forward to this bill hitting the President’s desk post haste,” said Rep. Connolly. “We compliment Chairman Hurd, Mr. Connolly, and all of the members who have worked diligently to produce this strong bipartisan push to help modernize our federal information technology resources,” said David Berteau, President and CEO of the Professional Services Council, the leading national association of the technology and professional services industry. "The bipartisan bill reforms the way we fund government information technology (IT) solutions to better keep pace with innovation," said IT Alliance for the Public Sector (ITAPS) Senior Vice President Trey Hodgkins. "We commend Rep. Hurd and the committee for creating an environment where government agencies can effectively fund their technology needs for cloud computing, IT modernization, cybersecurity, and future technology development." The MGT Act received committee approval today and next heads to the House floor for a vote. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – In response to reports that nearly 30% of prisoners transferred from the U.S. Naval Station in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba are suspected or confirmed of re-engaging in terrorist activities, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted with 243 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to bar any future transfers or releases. “Keeping Americans safe is my highest priority in Congress, and the War on Terror is ongoing. As long as we continue facing these threats, we cannot afford to have these individuals out on the streets,” said Rep. Hurd who served as an undercover officer in the CIA and spent most of his adult life chasing down terrorists. “Those in custody at Guantanamo are some of the world’s most dangerous individuals and releasing or transferring them is nothing short of reckless.” The bill passed the House with a final vote of 244-174. ###
09.14.2016	Washington, DC—— In another crucial step towards reforming the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the House of Representatives voted to increase performance standards for employees of the VA. Under the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016, protections for whistleblowers will be strengthened and there will be more flexibility to remove poorly performing VA employees. “Our nation’s veterans should be receiving the best care available, yet I continue to hear stories of VA employee indifference and unacceptable wait times from veterans in my district,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, where nine percent of adults are veterans. “It’s time to stop punishing veterans by rewarding incompetence. It’s my hope that this bill will provide more accountability so we can weed out the bad apples and give veterans the quality of care they deserve. ” Since 2014, the ability to fire or demote employees upon discovery of poor performance or misconduct only applied to the VA’s Senior Executive Service employees. This bill expands that flexibility to all VA employees, and passed the House with a final vote of 310-116. ###
09.13.2016	Washington, DC—In response to the growing gap between highly-technical careers and qualified employees in fields like manufacturing, health science, agriculture and food production, information technology, architecture, and business management, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill to strengthen career and technical education (CTE). The legislation reauthorizes and reforms the expired Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act and will help more Americans enter the workforce with the skills they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs. “We can help ensure that students graduate skills-ready, prepared for our 21st Century American work force,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who has been a champion for STEM initiatives and increased private-sector involvement in curriculum development. “This bill allows more flexibility of funding allocation, so that our local communities can develop relevant programs that close the skills gap.” “The reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act is well overdue,” said Brian G. Gottardy, Superintendent for North East Independent School District. “The Perkins Act provides critical resources and guidance to school districts like North East ISD to ensure the delivery of robust and rigorous Career and Technical Education (CTE) courses that prepare students for post-secondary success.” “I commend Rep. Hurd for leading this bipartisan effort to invest in the nation’s students, workers and economy,” Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff said. “This important piece of legislation will allow for career and technical education programs to better align with the needs of employers, and improve student outcomes across the country.” “Public-private partnerships that aim to train the next generation workforce, in a current high tech environment, are strategically important to the sustainability of advanced manufacturing in Texas,” said Yoshihisa Nagatani, President of Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Texas, Inc. “Reauthorizing and improving the Perkins CTE legislation will go a long way to encourage these kinds of critical partnerships.” “The reauthorization of the Perkins Act is critical to ensuring adequate resources are available to ensure every young person in San Antonio has access to modern-day career and technical programs,” said Richard Perez, President & CEO of the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. “Career and Technical Education is an effective tool in providing students those skills needed in today’s workplace and we support any legislation that helps our business members get the talent they need for the jobs of today and tomorrow.” In addition to authorizing more than $7 billion for state and local education grants, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Act: Encourages schools and industry leaders to collaborate on creating innovative CTE programs Simplifies requirements for funding recipients, and expands recipients to include partnerships between nonprofits and school districts or universities Strengthens support for CTE students in rural areas and low-income families Can be used to better integrate STEM programs, improving student engagement and participation Increases the amount of funding a state can use to boost technology use and professional development Increases funding that can be spent on those in state institutions, such as prisoners or people with disabilities With the support of Rep. Hurd, the bill passed in the House with a final vote of 405-5. ###
08.26.2016	Washington, DC – Joined by his fellow San Antonio Congressmen, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released a letter of support urging the United States Air Force to select Joint-Base San Antonio for a new F-16 Formal Training Unit (FTU). Hurd led the initiative in response to the Air Force’s recent announcement that it will be considering bases nationwide that meet specific requirements. “With the 149th Fighter Wing at Kelly Field, outstanding year round flying conditions, extensive hanger and servicing capacity, and strong community support from Military City USA, Joint Base San Antonio is the textbook location to assume additional FTU,” explained U.S. Representative Will Hurd who wrote the letter of support and rallied the San Antonio Congressional delegation. “A new F-16 FTU will combat the well-documented fighter pilot shortage and would be a major win for the local military community and private sector aviation companies that employ thousands of San Antonians. I’m proud to champion the initiative.” "We cannot say enough great things about the support we receive from our Military City USA neighbors," said Col. Timothy J. Madden, the 149th Wing Commander. "Our civic leaders and community partners have been essential in keeping our operations unimpeded and flourishing. Their support has positively influenced our ability to graduate some of the finest F-16 fighter pilots in the Air Force.” Hurd’s letter of support was also signed by San Antonio-area U.S. Representatives Henry Cuellar (D) and Lamar Smith (R). The Air Force will be analyzing potential FTU locations and will make selections later this year. ### 8 26 16 SADEL-SECAF F-16 FTU Goldfein.pdf 8 26 16 SADEL-SECAF F-16 FTU James.pdf
08.01.2016	Washington, DC – On Friday, the President signed The MEGABYTE Act into law, reforming the way government agencies manage software. Under the new law, sponsored by U.S. Representative Matt Cartwright (D-PA) and cosponsored by U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), federal agencies will be required to inventory and analyze software license spending, and establish new goals and metrics for software management. The MEGABYTE Act is expected to result in savings in the billions of dollars spent each year on software. “Last year alone the federal government spent more than $9 billion dollars managing software, yet many agencies do not have a full accounting of what they own. This results in duplicative spending. This waste of taxpayer dollars is an example of government bureaucracy at its worst,” said Rep. Hurd who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Technology. “I am pleased to have worked with my Democratic colleague from Pennsylvania, Mr. Cartwright, on this bipartisan legislation to make our digital infrastructure more efficient, cost effective, and secure so that we can bring government into the 21st Century.” ###
07.20.2016	'We need to continue to improve our intelligence sharing' Washington, DC – With the recent spike in terrorist tragedies at home and abroad, law enforcement is facing dangerous active shooter situations on an increasing basis. In order for law enforcement to safely and effectively subdue an active shooter, which was necessary in Dallas, Orlando, and San Bernardino, police departments must have adequate training and resources. In an effort to provide these first responders—our local law enforcement agencies—with the resources they need to keep Americans safe, Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, Michael McCaul (R-TX), Rep. Will Hurd and several other members of Congress introduced the bipartisan Community Counterterrorism Preparedness Act. “State and local law enforcement needs to be able to respond to a variety of situations, from defusing an explosive to stopping an active shooter,” said Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer and current member of the House Homeland Security Committee. “While we need to continue to improve our intelligence sharing to stop attacks before they happen, this bill implements critical updates to our tactics, techniques, and procedures that will ensure our men on the ground are ready for anything.” "The City was pleased to learn of the proposed legislation to create a Counterterrorism Training and Exercise Grant Program for major metropolitan areas in the United States. Specialized Homeland Security planning, training, and conducting exercises is essential for the City's first responders in preparing for and protecting our residents against a possible act of terrorism. I commend Congressman Mike McCall and Congressman Will Hurd in their effort to support this initiative," said Chief Lawrence Trevino, San Antonio Emergency Management Coordinator. The bill authorizes $39 million from previously-appropriated funds for emergency response providers in major metropolitan areas to conduct training and exercises to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the most likely terrorist attack scenarios, including active shooters. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Will Hurd (R-Texas) and Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) – chairman and member, respectively, of the House Subcommittee on Information Technology – along with U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and Tom Udall (D-N.M.) – both members of the Senate Commerce and Appropriations Committees – introduced the Modernizing Outdated and Vulnerable Equipment and Information Technology (MOVE IT) Act. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation would reduce wasteful spending and enhance information security by accelerating the federal government’s transition to cloud computing. “Last year, the federal government spent $80 billion on IT. What’s outrageous is that 80 percent of that is spent simply to maintain and operate outdated, legacy systems, some of which are not even supported any more by their manufacturers,” said Rep. Hurd. “Using these old systems makes data housed by federal agencies more vulnerable to digital attacks, and it’s a gigantic waste of tax-payers’ money! There is a better way to do this. This legislation is an outside the box, innovative solution and is another step forward in modernizing our digital infrastructure.” “We have not yet fully realized the potential for cloud computing to transform the way the federal government uses IT and to spur the transition away from hard-to-maintain, unsecure legacy systems,” said Rep. Connolly. “This legislation builds on the success of the bipartisan Federal IT Acquisition and Reform Act, which I co-authored. Savings and efficiencies created by FITARA will help provide the necessary funds for agencies to transition to the cloud. And the MOVE IT bill also improves collaboration with industry on the FedRAMP certification process for cloud providers so the necessary tools are in place when agencies are ready to make that transition.” “Americans want an efficient, effective and accountable government,” Sen. Moran said. “Bringing our government’s aging IT systems into the 21st century is an important step in that direction. Where appropriate, cloud-based solutions are a more secure and fiscally responsible alternative that will save our nation billions of dollars for years to come.” “The United States is the world’s leader in information technology, but too many of the federal government’s IT tools date back to the days of floppy disks and telephone modems,” Sen. Udall said. “As a result, each year, we waste billions of taxpayer dollars maintaining outdated IT systems. Our bipartisan legislation will help federal agencies retire old systems and invest in new cloud computing and other technologies to provide better service at a better value for the American taxpayers.” The legislation has three major components: · Reforms and streamlines the existing Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), which standardizes and reduces the cost of assessing the security of cloud computing services used by federal agencies; · Allows federal agencies to use more flexible “IT working capital fund” to replace outdated IT systems, with savings reinvested and returned to the U.S. Treasury; and · Implements new oversight mechanisms – including semi-annual reports – to ensure robust congressional oversight of federal IT modernization efforts. The House version is also sponsored by Reps. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Jaime Herrera-Beutler (R-Wash.), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.) and John Culberson (R-Texas). The Senate version is also sponsored by Sens. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.). The full text of the bill : MOVE IT Act.pdf Section-by-section summary: MOVE IT Act - section by section.pdf ###
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – In response to skyrocketing university costs, today U.S. Representative Will Hurd of San Antonio, cosponsored the Fair Treatment of Scholarships Act which expands tax-free treatment for scholarships and grants that cover non-tuition related expenses like room and board. “The cost to attend a four-year university has more than doubled since 1995, and is not limited to paying for tuition and books. The cost of rent alone can often double college expenses in many cities across the U.S.,” said Rep. Hurd, who graduated from Texas A&M University. “Sending kids to college is a financial strain that very few families can afford. This bill responds to the realistic costs of college and expands tax benefits accordingly.” Additionally this week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed several bills with the support of Rep. Hurd, in an effort to empower students and make higher education more affordable. Highlights of the House-passed legislation include: The improvement of a centralized website that provides clear information on financial aid options Enhanced counseling services for loan and grant recipients Simplification of financial aid application and extended application periods The ability to use Hispanic Serving Institution funding to support students seeking healthcare occupations “By providing some relief from financial pressures and confusion that often threaten to derail promising students, these measures would help us expand opportunity and put more deserving individuals on a pathway to prosperity,” said Texas A&M University-San Antonio President Cynthia Teniente-Matson. “We appreciate and share Congressman Hurd’s commitment to making quality higher education more accessible for all members of our community.” “We must do more to bridge the gap for those students who cannot afford to pay for school out of pocket, and these bills are a start to making the financial aid process less daunting. The next generation of creators, inventors, and producers won’t exist unless we take pains now to ensure every child has the opportunity to receive a first-class education,” concluded Hurd. ###
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd of San Antonio was selected to be part of a 12-member bipartisan House Task Force led by the Judiciary Committee, tasked with examining police accountability, aggression towards law enforcement and public safety concerns related to these issues. “Whether your skin is black or your uniform is blue, individuals should not feel targeted in this country,” said Rep. Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer. “It’s time for our communities to unify and break down the barriers that cause distrust and lead to violence. We are all Americans and we have to stop seeing people who don’t agree with us as enemies.” Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers will lead the working group. In addition to Hurd, members of the working group are: Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.). “I’m proud to serve on this Task Force alongside former law enforcement, religious leaders, and civil rights activists,” Hurd continued. “We must set an example to follow by bringing leaders from all sides together and encourage open, honest, and frank dialogue. Only then, will we be able to start rebuilding these relationships.” The first private roundtable will be held on Thursday, July 14, 2016. The working group has invited Reverend Doctor DeForest B. Suares, Jr., the Senior Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, New Jersey, and Deborah A. Ramirez, the Executive Director for Partnering for Prevention and Community Safety Initiative and Professor of Law at Northeastern University School of Law, to participate. ###
07.11.2016	Washington, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bill to rename the Tornillo Port of Entry in El Paso County after Army Private Marcelino Serna, a Mexican immigrant who was the most decorated WWI Veteran from Texas. The vote comes after a lengthy community effort led by local elected officials and veterans groups to honor Serna’s legendary heroism and service to our country. “Private Serna’s exemplary story is more important than ever. Our nation was founded on the blood, sweat, and tears of immigrants; and their contributions will not be ignored or forgotten,” said Hurd. “I hope this serves as a reminder of the countless Mexican-American immigrants who have fought valiantly to keep our nation safe.” “I am the last Serna survivor. I will feel highly honored before I pass to the other world to have this honored after him. Hopefully before I go, I get to see it. If not, hopefully my grandkids can see it,” said Gloria Serna, daughter of Marcelino. “I have gone to other officials a few years back but nothing ever happened. We have had a lot of slammed doors on our faces. You [Rep. Hurd and staff] are the first ones that have that attitude, a positive attitude.” The bill must now pass in the Senate and be signed into law by the President. To learn more about Marcelino Serna and view support from the community, click here. Above: Rep. Hurd honors the late Marcelino Serna at Fort Bliss with Serna’s daughter, Gloria. Hurd Honra a Veterano Hispano Local de la Primera Guerra Mundial de una Gran Manera El Renombramiento de un Puerto de Entrada en Texas Recibe Apoyo Unánime en la Cámara de Representantes Washington, DC – Hoy, la Cámara de Representantes aprobó de una manera unánime el proyecto de ley propuesto por el Congresista Will Hurd que renombrara el Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en el Condado de El Paso en honor al Soldado Marcelino Serna, un inmigrante mexicano estadounidense quien fue el veterano de Texas más condecorado de la Primera Guerra Mundial y vivió en el área. El voto se logró tras un largo esfuerzo encabezado por grupos conformados de veteranos así como oficiales electos locales con la finalidad de honrar el extraordinario heroísmo y servicio de Marcelino Serna a nuestro país. “La historia ejemplar del Soldado Serna es ahora más importante que nunca. Nuestro país fue fundado con la sangre, sudor, y lágrimas de inmigrantes; Sus contribuciones no serán olvidadas ni ignoradas,” dijo Hurd. “Especialmente durante un tiempo de divisiva tensión racial y cultural. Espero que esto sirva como un recordatorio de los incontables inmigrantes Mexicano-Americanos que han luchado valientemente para mantener la seguridad de nuestro país.” “Soy la última sobreviviente de Serna. Me sentiría muy honrada si pudiera ver que suceda esto antes de partir al otro mundo. Espero que antes de que me vaya, pueda verlo. Si no, espero que mis nietos lo puedan ver,” dijo Gloria Serna, hija de Marcelino. “He ido a otros líderes hace unos años pero nada se hizo. Se nos habían cerrado puertas en nuestra cara. Usted [Rep. Hurd y equipo] son los primeros en tener esa actitud, la actitud positiva.” Esta legislación debe ser aprobada por el Senado y consecuentemente firmada a ley por el Presidente. Para aprender más sobre Marcelino Serna y el esfuerzo de la comunidad, haga clic aquí.
07.07.2016	Washington, DC – In response to FBI Director James Comey’s recommendation not to pursue criminal proceedings against former Secretary Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information, the House Committee of Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing to question Director Comey. During a line of questioning by U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a former CIA officer who sits on the Committee, Comey admitted that Clinton put America’s secrets at risk and set a poor precedent for handling classified information. See the full line of questioning, HERE: Video of If I had been as reckless with classified information as Secretary Clinton while at the CIA... "Did this activity you investigated make America's secrets vulnerable to hostile elements?" Hurd asked. -- "Yes," replied Comey. ###
07.06.2016	Washington, DC—Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined his colleagues to support a dramatic overhaul of our mental healthcare system to tackle the nation’s complex mental health needs. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act represents the most significant reform to our nation's mental health programs in decades, and if signed into law, would reform our nation’s broken mental health system by restructuring a number of programs that have not only wasted tax dollars, but have ultimately failed families and those most in need of access to quality care in our society. Highlights include: A response to the nation’s substance abuse epidemic An expansion of Medicaid coverage for short-term institutional stays Improvements for children’s mental healthcare and adults with serious mental illnesses Improved communication channels for physicians and the families of patients “This is about both individual wellness and public health, and there is no doubt that our nation is facing a mental health crisis,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “Reforms in this bill will increase access and help to change the way not only our society, but also families and their loved ones, tackle mental health. This legislation is a culmination of a multi-year initiative to increase mental healthcare and resources, and while we must continue to work on ways to address this crisis I am proud to support this significant step in the right direction.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act passed in the House with a final vote of 422 to 2. ###
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressmen Will Hurd (R-TX) and Seth Moulton (D-MA) introduced the Government Travel Modernization Act to allow government employees to utilize ridesharing apps, such as Uber and Lyft, and bikeshare programs for official business. The option to summon a ride via smartphone gives millions of federal employees greater flexibility, saves taxpayer dollars, and brings government travel into the 21st Century. “The federal government is notoriously behind-the-times with antiquated policies that stifle innovation and 21st Century competition. The result is a government that rewards outdated technology and pays more than it should for basic services,” said Rep. Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “This bill finally allows federal employees to catch up with the private sector and moves the needle toward a more innovative and responsive government.” “Innovative modes of transportation like Uber, Lyft, and bikeshare have improved the way we travel, yet currently, federal employees are not able to take full advantage of these cost-effective options for official travel,” said Rep. Moulton. “This bipartisan bill will change that for the thousands of federal employees both in Washington and in Massachusetts. This bill seeks to bring innovation into how government functions by utilizing the new technology that is available to us." "Ridesharing continues to grow as an integral part of this country's transportation ecosystem," said David Baga, Chief Business Officer of Lyft. "As we see more and more business travelers choose cost-effective services like Lyft, the introduction of this bill is an important step in bringing modern transportation options to federal employees. "Thank you to the sponsors for putting forth this legislation that will make it easier and more affordable for thousands of federal employees to travel for work,” Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber. “We are committed to providing reliable transportation at the push of a button for everyone, everywhere and we're hopeful that with this legislation, Uber, and all ridesharing options, will be able to provide that service to those working in the federal government." ###
06.21.2016	Washington, DC – Law enforcement officers and their families across the country are one step closer to a legislative pay fix that would provide financial certainty for those who work daily to secure our borders. Under current law, those who patrol our borders by aircraft and vessel within Customs and Border Protection (CBP) are subject to an array of confusing and inconsistent overtime payment systems. U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s bill, which passed the House unanimously, would standardize overtime pay within the CBP, providing certainty to the agents who work long hours, and resulting in cost savings of approximately $2 million each year. “The Customs and Border Protection personnel who serve in my district have an increasingly challenging job. Not only do they keep us safe from terrorists and drug cartels, but they also apprehend illegal contraband and rescue victims of human trafficking,” explained Rep. Hurd, whose district covers over 800 miles of the Texas-Mexico border. “Without action we are perpetuating an administrative nightmare for the agency and essentially punishing the hardworking agents who work overtime to protect our nation. It’s time we offer clear, consistent, and fair payment policies for the families that sacrifice so much for our safety. ” The Federal Law Enforcement Officers Assocation expressed their support for the legislation in a letter to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, saying, “Implementing LEAP for all AMO law enforcement officers would enhance CBP operational efficiencies and monetary savings by providing an efficient, effective, and uniform system of compensation for the unique work conditions and substantial hours commonly required of AMO agents.” In May 2015, a previous Hurd bill was signed into law that stabilized the paychecks for Border Patrol Agents who, due to a lack of action by the Department of Homeland Security, were facing a deep cut in their pay, despite working the same number of hours. “I’ll continue to fight for the CBP Officers and Agents who have a highly dangerous and demanding job and often put their lives on the line for our safety. These dedicated public servants and their families deserve to have stability in the paychecks they have earned," concluded Hurd.
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Reinforcing his commitment to keep America safe, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted with 281 of his colleagues to fund our national defense, securing key projects for local military communities along the way. “With the recent attack in Orlando and increasing threats from terrorist organizations, it is no time to play politics with the safety of Americans,” said Hurd, who served over nine years as an undercover CIA officer. “Providing for the common defense of our nation is a constitutional duty for Congress and a sacred responsibility.” The DOD Appropriations bill contains several wins for the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, including report language urging the Air Force to complete the project started earlier this year at Laughlin Air Force Base in Del Rio to prevent flooding from closing down the airfield, allowing pilot training to continue. Another win is the $6 million in funding for Dental and Facial Trauma Research, a request made by all members of the San Antonio delegation. This unique program, found only at the Joint Air Force Base San Antonio (JBSA), received bipartisan support and marks a huge victory for the local community. Among Hurd’s other bipartisan-supported requests were: $30 million for research on extremity injuries in the battlefield $120 million for breast cancer research $125 million to fight PTSD and traumatic brain injuries “The 23rd Congressional District of Texas is fortunate to be home to several military installations such as Laughlin Air Force Base and Camp Bullis. It also has major installations such as Joint Base San Antonio and Ft. Bliss nearby, where many constituents serve or support,” continued Hurd. “We must put politics aside and take care of the brave men and women in uniform who risk their lives to protect our livelihood and freedom.” Other highlights of the 2017 DoD Appropriations Bill include: A 2.1% pay raise and enhanced medical care for service members An increase in discretionary funding $3 billion above 2016 levels Investments in cutting-edge defense technology ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – “I’ve spent most of my adult life chasing down terrorists and I know how they think,” U.S. Representative Will Hurd of Texas told his colleagues on the House floor today while speaking in support of the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act. “I’ve gathered intelligence on their tactics and their plans. I know how they think. And I know what it takes to stop them.” Today’s measure was comprised of three House counterterrorism bills that previously passed with overwhelming bipartisan majorities, but have failed to advance in the Senate. The legislation is part of a broader initiative by the House Homeland Security Committee to paralyze terrorist travel and enhance security at home. The bills were the result of the final report from the Foreign Fighter Task Force, put together by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) in an effort to learn more about foreign fighter travel and how to stop it. “These bills will give the Department of Homeland Security the tools they need to keep Americans from falling prey to ISIS propaganda. They will help communities learn how to spot the signs of radicalization. And they will ensure greater coordination between federal and local government agencies so that we can stop attacks before they happen,” continued Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer who served on the Foreign Fighter Task Force. Seventy-one bills that have come out of Homeland Security have passed the House and sixteen have become law, making it one of the most effective committees in the 114th Congress. Since the Task Force’s final report was submitted to Congressional leaders and the President in September 2015, nearly half of the recommendations have been passed in the House and sent to the Senate. ###
06.15.2016	Washington, DC – After requests to the President to fire IRS Commissioner John Koskinen went unanswered, U.S. Representative Will Hurd joined 22 members of the Committee on Oversight and Government Affairs to condemn and censure Koskinen for actions unbefitting of an Officer of the United States. “The American people deserve full transparency from the IRS. What they got from Commissioner Koskinen was deceit,” said Hurd. “If an American citizen repeatedly failed to produce documentation that the IRS demanded, the IRS would pursue legal action to have that citizen put in jail. Koskinen’s actions are outrageous and he must be held accountable.” In 2012, the IRS politically targeted conservative groups, leading to congressional investigations. Despite the resignation of several officials, the IRS continued to mislead Congress and the public about its actions. Throughout the course of numerous hearings, Commissioner Koskinen failed to comply with a Congressional subpoena and was reprimanded for making false statements to Congress. Last year, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform called for the President to fire Commissioner Koskinen.
06.10.2016	Washington DC – Today, the House of Representatives approved a formal resolution in response to the President’s proposed tax increase on oil and energy production. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, whose district covers portions of both the Eagle Ford Shale and the Permian Basin, told the Obama Administration ‘no’ to tax hikes for the energy sector during an economic downturn that has already costs Texans tens of thousands of jobs. “These proposed tax increases would be devastating to our local economy. Increased costs for energy producers would result in additional layoffs and higher consumer prices for the hardworking people in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas,” said Hurd. “During a time when many Americans families and small business owners are worried about feeding their families, it is not the time to pile on extra costs.” Last year, the House passed a legislation to lift the national ban on crude oil export, an effort spearheaded by Hurd and Congressman Henry Cuellar, as well as passing the Protecting Americans from Taxes Hikes Act. “The implementation of these taxes will undermine Congress’ efforts and will ultimately be felt in the pockets of hard working Texans and Americans. This administration needs to stop limiting our energy capabilities and start maximizing our energy potential,” said Hurd. ### Hurd Dice No al Incremento de Impuestos “El incremento del costo de energía resultara en desempleo y precios altos” Washington DC – Hoy, la Cámara de Representantes aprobó una resolución formal en respuesta a los incrementos de impuestos en la producción de crudo y energía que propuso el Presidente. El Representante estadounidense Will Hurd, cuyo distrito abarca partes de Eagle Ford Shale y el Permian Basin, le dijo a la Administración ‘no’ a los incrementos de impuestos hacia el sector de energía durante una recesión económica que ya le ha costado miles de trabajos en Texas. “Estas propuestas serán devastadoras para nuestra economía local. Un incremento en costo a los productores de energía resultaria en despidos adicionales y precios de consumidor mas alto para la gente trabajadora del Distrito Congresional 23 de Texas,” dijo Hurd. “Mientras que muchas familias y dueños de pequeños negocios están preocupados por mantener a sus familias, no es el momento para añadirles costos adicionales.” El año pasado, la Camara aprobó una legislación que revoco la prohibición nacional de la exportación de crudo, un esfuerzo encabezado por Hurd y el Congresista Henry Cuellar, al igual que aprobaron el Acta Protecting Americans for Taxes Hikes. “La implementación de estos impuestos perjudicaran los esfuerzos del congreso y por ultimo, afectaran a la gente trabajadora de Texas y los estados unidos. Esta administración debe de dejar de limitar nuestras capacidades de energía y empezar a maximizar nuestro potencial de energía,” dijo Hurd.
06.09.2016	Washington, DC –Congress came one step closer to tightening visa loopholes that could be used by terrorists. The House Committee of Homeland Security unanimously approved legislation authored by U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a former CIA officer from San Antonio, as part of an ongoing counterterrorism initiative to enhance U.S. visa screening procedures at posts overseas. Under the bill, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would be authorized to deploy trained law enforcement personnel for applicant vetting and biometric screening technology to fifty U.S. Embassies abroad. “We simply cannot afford to let terrorists slip through the cracks,” said Hurd. “We live in a day and age when bad actors from all over the world could exploit our legal visa process and plot against Americans. It is time we send trained professionals to properly vet travelers in order to push out our borders and stop those who seek to do us harm before they even get to our shores.” The U.S. Travel Association offered their support of the Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act of 2016: “The enhanced security protocols included in H.R. 5253 will not only intelligently advance visa security efforts in our constantly changing global threat landscape, but also keep our country connected and competitive on the world stage. For those reasons, the travel industry supports this legislation and looks forward to continually working with committee members on visa security issues.” “I would like to express our strong support for H.R. 5253, the Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act, which is aimed at improving visa applicant vetting and overall visa security measures,” said Don Erickson, CEO of Security Industry Association. “Strengthening visa integrity will help protect all Americans, and the federal government must be able to utilize the reliable technologies that are readily available.” “The Chamber applauds the Committee for focusing on the important issue of national security as it pertains to the visa granting process,” said R. Bruce Josten, Executive Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce of the U.S. “The Chamber was also pleased with the focus of the bill’s sponsors on potential risks to the country. This approach is reflected throughout the bill, whether it concerns the placement of Homeland Security personnel at diplomatic and consular posts around the world, performing visa security assistance remotely, or the new requirements for CBP to conduct continuous screening of individuals seeking to enter the U.S.” The Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act of 2016 is expected to advance to the House floor in upcoming weeks.
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Will Hurd was presented with the Poder Award by the Hispanic Lobbyist Association in recognition for his leadership in promoting diversity with his staff. “My staff is an extension of who I am and how I represent the people in my district, so it’s important for them to reflect the diversity and values of my constituency,” said Hurd. “Gold Standard is the motto we use when it comes to constituent service and that’s what we work hard toward every day. It’s an honor to be recognized for our commitment to reflecting the people we represent and I’m grateful for a team that takes public service as seriously as I do.” “Congressman Hurd’s HLA Avanza award is important to Texas and to the United States,” said Renée Flores, Chairman of The San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. “It highlights the congressman’s work encouraging the career development of Latinos as well as the diverse workforce in his district.” “HLA is pleased to recognize Congressman Hurd’s commitment to diversity on Capitol Hill, as he sets a high bar for others to follow. His example helps make Congress more reflective of America,” said Susan Santana, President of HLA. This award was presented during the 2016 HLA Avanza Awards, which recognizes those who work in support of diversity in the government affairs field. ###
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – The National Retail Federation has announced that U.S. Representative Will Hurd has received the “Hero of Main Street” award for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Hurd is part of a bi-partisan group honored for their support of a wide range of issues local business owners and entrepreneurs rely upon to grow the economy and support their communities. “Providing more than 3.5 million Texas jobs, the retail industry makes up 15% of our state’s economy,” said Hurd. “I’m honored to be recognized for my work by a sector that provides stable jobs to so many Texans and contributes to the diversity of our economy.” “Congressman Hurd has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “Hurd is an advocate for his thriving Main Street and to the long-term growth of the retail industry -- our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. NRF’s This is Retail campaign highlights the industry’s opportunities for life-long careers, how retailers strengthen communities, and the critical role that retail plays in driving innovation. ###
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure authorized the necessary funds for the United States General Services Administration (GSA) to build a new federal courthouse in San Antonio. This was the final step in a multi-year effort to secure funding in order to relocate the Court from its current location in a former HemisFair ’68 Pavilion to a more suitable facility that meets 21st Century security and employee health standards. “This is a monumental milestone for San Antonio. It not only ensures the safety and security of the hundreds of employees who work at the facility, but also the tens of thousands of families that have already visited the revitalized children’s park that opened last year right outside the current Courthouse building,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who worked alongside local leaders and helped facilitate bipartisan support for the initiative in Congress. “This is the perfect example of the federal and local government on both sides of the aisle working together to fight for the best interest of San Antonians.” Bexar County Judge Wolff, who helped champion the effort, was excited to hear the news. “I appreciate the great leadership of Congressman Hurd, it has been a treacherous road but he was able to get it over the goal line for us,” Wolff said. The new courthouse will be built on the site of the former City Police Headquarters at 214 West Nueva Street adjacent to the forthcoming San Pedro Creek improvements. GSA will acquire the property as part of a pre-negotiated land swap with the City of San Antonio, in exchange for the property that houses the current courthouse facility at Hemisfair. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Despite divisive rhetoric characteristic of an election year, the 114th Congress continues to turn out meaningful, bipartisan legislation. Today, the House passed legislation funding military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017 (FY17). The FY17 Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill provides $81.6 billion to support our military infrastructure and take care of our veterans. Under the bill, the VA will receive $73.5 billion in 2017, which is an increase over last year’s levels. This funding goes directly to improve mental health programs, suicide prevention, VA homeless assistance programs, and improvements to health IT systems. The legislation specifically provides $118M to address claims and appeals backlogs and prohibits bonuses for the VA Senior Executive Service personnel. “I was sent to Congress to get things done, like taking care of our veterans and their families,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, home to roughly 45,000 veterans. “These brave men and women sacrificed so much to protect Americans. No matter what, our nation’s heroes must be taken care of. This funding bill does just that.” The appropriations bill passed the House with a final vote of 295-129 and a companion bill is currently being debated in the Senate. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 providing over $610 billion to restore readiness and increase agility for America’s armed forces. Highlights of the bill include: Preserving the active duty Army at 480,000, and adding 3,000 Marines and 4,000 Airmen; A 2.1% pay raise for our service members for the first time in 3 years; Investments in new, more effective equipment and capabilities; Facility restoration and modernization of barracks, hangars, runways, and hospitals; Important Tricare reforms that simplify options, expand access to care, provide accountability to medical centers, and improve quality of care that patients receive; Reforms to acquisition transparency and accountability standards; Prioritization of U.S. Cyber Command, and $900 million increase for cybersecurity operations; A significant increase in funding against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Asia; and, Increased accountability and Congressional oversight of senior civilian and military leadership. “For too long we have sat idle while our enemies gain strength and expand their networks abroad. During a time that security threats are increasing from radical groups like ISIS and Al Qaeda, it is more important than ever that we equip our military with the resources it needs to take the fight to the enemy, win, and return home safely,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who previously served overseas in the CIA and currently sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “This NDAA allocates the funding we need to invest in new technologies, modernize our weaponry, and take care of our troops and their families at home.” The House approved the FY17 NDAA by a final vote of 277 – 147 and it has been sent to the Senate. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – As part of an ongoing counterterrorism initiative, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a former CIA officer and current member of the House Committee of Homeland Security, introduced a measure to enhance Visa screening procedures at U.S. Embassy posts overseas. Under the bill, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is authorized to assign counterterrorism personnel and biometric screening technology to thirty U.S. Embassy posts around the world to vet and screen all visa applicants against the appropriate criminal, national security, and terrorism databases maintained by the federal government. The bill also requires Customs and Border Patrol to utilize facial recognition and other biometric technology when available to screen Visa Waiver Program travelers at airports. “As the threats against the United States continue to grow, we must respond by eliminating loopholes, strengthening screening measures, and deploying trained personnel,” said Hurd. “Since 2014, nearly 40,000 foreign fighters from more than 120 countries have traveled to Syria to join or aid ISIS. We are not just looking at people from ISIS strongholds anymore—we must adequately screen westerners as well. There have already been over two dozen ISIS-linked attack plots inside the U.S., and we cannot afford to let would-be terrorists slip through the cracks.” “Despite improvements in the visa security screening process since 2001, terrorists and other nefarious actors have exploited the system to enter the United States. Rep. Hurd knows this threat first-hand from his work conducting consular interviews as an undercover officer in the Central Intelligence Agency," added House Homeland Security Committee Chairman, Michael McCaul (R-TX). "The Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act will significantly increase the security of the visa process by stationing specially trained law-enforcement officers at embassies and consulates around the world to prevent terrorists from ever boarding an airplane. As we have seen in the recent attacks in San Bernardino and elsewhere, visa security is an important element of security here at home, and this common-sense bill will help to prevent similar attacks in the future.” The Strong Visa Integrity Secures America Act of 2016 is expected to advance in upcoming weeks. ###
05.16.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a bipartisan bill authorizing the Department of Homeland Security to establish a consortium of non-profits and academic institutions to support the department’s cybersecurity initiatives. The University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) was selected as part of the new Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium for its leadership and ground-breaking research on cybersecurity risk and response. The bill was co-sponsored by all five San Antonio-area Members of Congress in a collective effort to champion San Antonio’s emerging cybersecurity sector. “It is no secret that cyber-attacks are on the rise, and the unfortunate reality is that everyone is vulnerable. The Consortium gives UTSA the opportunity to lead in this field and for the city of San Antonio to reap the economic and educational benefits,” said. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Information Technology and was a cybersecurity entrepreneur in the private-sector. “Building upon UTSA’s great work and the breakthroughs of other organizations across the country is crucial. It will help us ensure that our first responders and government entities are adequately prepared for a significant cyber event, and protect our digital infrastructure at all levels.” UTSA Encabezara a la Nación en la Preparación y Prevención de Ataques Cibernéticos El Congreso establece un Consorcio académico de Preparación de Seguridad Cibernética Washington, DC –Hoy, la Cámara de Representantes estadounidense aprobó una legislación bipartidista que autoriza al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional a establecer un consorcio de instituciones académicas y asociaciones no lucrativa para apoyar las iniciativas de la seguridad cibernética del departamento. La Universidad de Texas en San Antonio (UTSA) fue elegida como parte del Consorcio académico de Preparación de Seguridad Cibernética por su liderazgo e investigaciones innovadoras en cuanto a amenazas y reacción en la seguridad cibernética. Esta legislación fue patrocinada por todos los congresistas del área de San Antonio como un esfuerzo colectivo para promover el sector de seguridad cibernética de San Antonio. “No es un secreto que los ataques cibernéticos continúan aumentando van creciendo, y desafortunadamente todos son vulnerables. El Consorcio le dará a UTSA la oportunidad de encabezar en esta área y a la ciudad de San Antonio poder ver los beneficios económicos y educativos,” dijo el congresista Will Hurd, quien es presidente de la Subcomisión de la Tecnología de Información de la Cámara de Representantes, y quien fue un empresario de la seguridad cibernética en el sector privado. “Cultivando el gran trabajo de UTSA y los avances de otras organizaciones a través del país es crucial. Esto asegurara que los primeros intervinientes y las entidades gubernamentales estén adecuadamente preparados para un evento cibernético significante, y puedan proteger nuestra infraestructura en todos los niveles.”
05.13.2016	Washington, DC—The heroism of the late WWI veteran, U.S. Army Private Marcelino Serna, will be honored with a unique gesture by U.S. Congressman Will Hurd, who represents the Texas border region where Serna was raised. Hurd introduced a bill to name the Tornillo-Guadalupe Port of Entry after PVT Serna, a Mexican-American immigrant who was the most decorated WWI Veteran from Texas. “The Tornillo-Marcelino Serna Port of Entry will not only honor this extraordinary man’s service to our nation, it will serve as a reminder of the countless Mexican-American immigrants that have fought valiantly to keep our nation safe. Their contributions will not be ignored or forgotten,” said Hurd. “It is a privilege to move forward an initiative which has been overwhelmingly championed by the community.” Serna’s exceptional heroism in Flirey, France on September 12th, 1918 allowed him to single-handedly capture 24 Germans, for which he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. Serna is currently being reviewed to posthumously be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for his dedication and fearlessness serving the United States of America. Local elected leaders and veterans groups shared enthusiasm. "Private Serna served this country in WWI with the utmost sense of duty to return as the most decorated soldier from Texas. A true patriot, Private Serna became a citizen after being discharged, free to pursue the American Dream. I congratulate those involved in memorializing him at the Tornillo Port of Entry,” said Texas State Representative César Blanco of House District 76. Ruben Carrasco and Roberto Serna, Commander and First Vice Commander of the American Legion Post 36 in El Paso submitted the following statement: “The Post is extremely grateful that Congressman Will Hurd agreed to sponsor the proposal. The honor is well deserved and serves as a standing testament to a man who entered the United States as a Mexican immigrant and remained as a hero and a citizen of the United States, a country grateful to claim him as one of their own. Private Serna’s life and accomplishments serve as a wonderful example of bravery, loyalty and tenacity, and give encouragement to those who find themselves under similar circumstances. The veterans in El Paso, Texas are extremely proud to be affiliated with such a man.” “In a time of increasingly divisive rhetoric about immigration, I am very, very proud to see that Private Serna is being memorialized in this way. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the Serna family for this tremendous honor,” added Texas State Representative Mary E. González of House District 75. State Senator Jose Rodriguez of Senate District 29 reinforced, “I enthusiastically support recognizing Pvt. Serna's inspiring contributions to our nation. A migrant to the United States, Pvt. Serna could have opted out of fighting during World War I. Instead, he demonstrated exceptional resourcefulness and courage defending his compatriots during the worst of that conflict. We should all take enormous pride in knowing Texas's most-decorated World War I veteran, who was born in the state of Chihuahua, made his home in El Paso. Pvt. Serna's intrepid military service and inspiring personal story of migration to and success in the Texas borderlands make his the perfect name to greet visitors to the United States.” ### Legislación de Hurd Honrara a un Héroe Hispano de la 1ª Guerra Mundial Proyecto de ley renombra al Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo en honor al veterano de WWI mas condecorado de Texas Washington, DC – El heroísmo del veterano difunto de la Primera Guerra Mundial, Marcelino Serna, será honrado en un gesto único por el Congresista Will Hurd, quien representa la región fronteriza de Texas, donde se crio Serna. Hurd introdujo una legislación para nombrar el Puerto de Entrada Tornillo en honor a Serna, un inmigrante Mexicano-Americano quien fue el veterano más condecorado de Texas de la Primera Guerra Mundial. “El Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo-Marcelino Serna no solo honrara el servicio extraordinario de este hombre a nuestra nación, también servirá como un recordatorio de todos los inmigrantes Mexicanos-Americanos que han luchado valientemente para mantener la seguridad de nuestra nación. Sus contribuciones no serán ignoradas u olvidadas,” dijo Hurd. “Es un privilegio avanzar una iniciativa que ha sido inmensamente apoyado por la comunidad.” El heroísmo excepcional de Serna en Flirey, Francia el 12 de septiembre del 1918 le permitió capturar a 24 alemanes por sí mismo, por lo cual fue premiado con la Cruz de los Servicios Distinguidos. Serna está en evaluación actualmente para ser concedido de forma póstuma la Medalla de Honor del Congreso por su dedicación y audacia al servicio del E.E.U.U. Los líderes electos locales y grupos de veteranos compartieron su entusiasmo. "Serna sirvió a este país en la Primera Guerra Mundial con el mayor sentido del deber para volver como el soldado más condecorado de Texas. Un verdadero patriota, Serna se convirtió en ciudadano después de ser descargado, libre para alcanzar el sueño americano. Felicito a todos involucrados en la conmemoración de el en el Puerto de Entrada de Tornillo," dijo el representante estatal de Texas César Blanco, quien representa el Distrito Estatal 76. Rubén Carrasco y Roberto Serna, Comandante y Primer Vice Comandante del Puesto 36 de la Legión Americana en El Paso presentaron la siguiente declaración: "El Puesto está sumamente agradecido que congresista Will Hurd pudo patrocinar la propuesta. El honor es bien merecido y sirve como un testamento a un hombre que entró a los Estados Unidos como inmigrante Mexicano y permanece como un héroe y ciudadano de los Estados Unidos, un país agradecido de reclamarlo como uno de los suyos. La vida de Serna y sus logros sirven como un maravilloso ejemplo de valentía, lealtad y tenacidad y anima a aquellos que se encuentran en circunstancias similares. Los veteranos en El Paso, Texas están muy orgullosos de estar afiliados con un hombre como él". "En un tiempo donde retórica sobre la inmigración se encuentra cada vez más divisivo, estoy muy, muy orgulloso de ver que Serna está siendo recordado de esta manera. Extiendo mis más sinceras felicitaciones a la familia de la Serna por este gran honor," agregó la representante estatal de Texas, Mary E. González, quien representa el Distrito Estatal 75. El Senador Estatal José Rodriguez del Distrito 29 enfatizo, "Con entusiasmo apoyo el reconocimiento de las contribuciones inspiradoras de Serna a nuestra nación. Como inmigrante a los Estados Unidos, Serna podría haber optado por quedar fuera de combate durante la Primera Guerra Mundial. En cambio, demostró ingeniosidad excepcional y valentía al defender a sus compatriotas durante lo peor de ese conflicto. Todos deberíamos tomar un gran orgullo al saber que el Veterano más condecorado de la Primera Guerra Mundial de Texas, que nació en el estado de Chihuahua, hizo su casa en El Paso. El servicio militar intrépido de Serna y su historia personal inspiradora sobre su migración y éxito en las zonas fronterizas de Texas hacen su nombre el ideal para saludar a los visitantes a los Estados Unidos."
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) honored U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) with the group’s 2015 Tech Legislator of the Year award. The award recognizes four lawmakers each year, a Republican and Democrat from both the Senate and House of Representatives, who are selected by a majority of ITI member companies for their demonstrated commitment to advancing policies that support innovation and technology. Members of ITI include Dell, Toyota, Texas Instruments, Facebook and Google, just to name a few. Hurd is the first freshman legislator to receive this award. "It's an honor to be able to take my real life experiences and use them in Congress to promote innovation in the tech sector and provide oversight for federal agencies. The cyber and tech industries are skyrocketing in my hometown of San Antonio, directly impacting job growth and the economy in my district. Championing this growing tech hub is a key priority for me and I'm grateful to be recognized by ITI for the impact my work has had in Congress," said Hurd, who is a former undercover CIA officer, and also has cybersecurity experience in the private sector. Local tech champions were quick to respond to Hurd’s award. "From cloud computing to cybersecurity there is no bigger champion to the tech ecosystem than Rep. Will Hurd,” said Lorenzo Gomez, CEO of Geekdom San Antonio. “He takes the time to understand both the small startup and the large tech company in scale mode. I feel safe knowing that Will is representing our industry and fighting for good policy that will help advance technology at both a local and national level." Founder and CEO of Tech Bloc San Antonio, David Heard, also added, "Congressman Hurd is such a hardworking and intelligent leader as we work to build San Antonio's technology industry. His experience in technology, and cyber security in particular, is such a unique asset for our community and he's already had a big impact in his brief time in Congress. We can't wait to see what the future holds for our talented legislator and our growing tech scene here in Central Texas." International tech giants also applauded Hurd’s accolade. Fred Humphries, Corporate Vice President of US Government Affairs for Microsoft Corporation offered the following statement: “With only 16 months in Congress under his belt, Rep. Hurd has emerged as one of the technology industry’s greatest allies and a strong advocate for the industry in San Antonio. And it’s no wonder. As a programmer himself, he brings a rare level of acumen and insight to our issues. Microsoft congratulates Rep. Hurd on this honor and looks forward to working with him to strengthen the US technology industry in the years to come.” In presenting the award, ITI noted that as Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Information Technology, and as a member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Hurd has been a leading advocate and ally for the technology sector. Most notably, in early 2016, Rep. Hurd successfully pushed for the renegotiation of problematic provisions agreed to at the 2013 Plenary meeting of the Wassenaar Arrangement, a multi-national agreement which imposed strict export controls on a number of commonly used cybersecurity products. “It’s a testament to Congressman Hurd’s leadership that in a time of entrenched polarization he helped forge a bipartisan solution to a very complicated issue that will serve to strengthen our cybersecurity,” said ITI President and CEO Dean Garfield. “We’re very pleased to recognize his leadership in removing barriers and promoting policies so our most innovative companies can develop new innovations that create jobs and supercharge our economy.” ITI also recognized that Hurd has been an important voice in the current encryption debate, actively working to educate his colleagues on the role encryption plays as an essential privacy and security solution. One of Hurd’s four pieces of legislation signed into law in 2015 mandated the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to identify and reduce costly, duplicative IT systems. Another Hurd bill that passed the House directed DHS, upon request, to coordinate with state and local governments on cybersecurity. Hurd also played a key role in negotiations on the Cybersecurity Act of 2015. In the 114th Congress, Hurd supported key legislative priorities for the tech sector, including the Trade Act of 2015, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, the Protecting Cyber Networks Act, and the USA Freedom Act of 2015. ###
05.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s office announced that the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition is Roxana Rodriguez, a junior at Presidio High School. Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Winners are recognized at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. and the winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. “Congratulations to Roxana for her hard work and artistic talent. We are excited that this piece is going to represent the 23rd Congressional District of Texas in the Capitol Building for the next year,” said Rep. Hurd. ###
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – This week, the House Homeland Security Committee voted to advance bipartisan legislation sponsored by every Congressman in the San Antonio delegation, authorizing the Department of Homeland Security to work with academic consortiums, including the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC). Congressman Will Hurd is an original cosponsor of the bill, H.R. 4743 and spoke on behalf of the bill in this week’s committee markup. The NCPC is an informal group of universities leading in cybersecurity, which includes the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA). The NCPC’s mission is to improve cyber preparedness and response in state and local communities. “Cyberattacks are constantly being targeted towards the public and private sectors, as well as American citizens. No one is immune. Unfortunately, state and local communities often do not possess the same digital resources as the federal government, and need the tools to detect, respond to, and recover from a cyberattack," said Hurd, who serves as Chairman of the House Information Technology Subcommittee. “UTSA is already a leading academic institution in the cybersecurity field, and this authorization will further position the university to develop cutting-edge technologies that the rest of the nation will adopt.” “The NCPC and The University of Texas at San Antonio are excited to work more closely with DHS on helping states and communities to develop or improve their viable and sustainable cyber security programs,” said Dr. Greg White, a professor specializing in computer and information security at the University of Texas San Antonio. "We believe that the Community Cyber Security Maturity Model that the NCPC’s efforts are based on provide a clear roadmap to help states and communities secure their cyber infrastructures.” “As I’ve said before, cybersecurity isn’t just a buzzword. It’s a serious issue that can potentially impact every single American. This is common-sense legislation that strengthens our nation’s cyber posture at every level of government," Hurd concluded.
04.13.2016	Washington, DC – In order to prevent terrorists from traveling undetected to and from western countries, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed National Security legislation to rapidly increase our ability to share proven technologies with our allies. The Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act authorizes the U.S. to develop and share open-source software that will help our European allies vet travelers and identify known or suspected jihadists. “Many of our European partners have failed to conduct adequate counterterrorism screening. These gaping security gaps are being exploited by extremists overseas and putting the U.S. Homeland in danger,” explained Hurd, who is a former CIA officer and serves on the House Committee of Homeland Security. “This bill is about empowering our partners to work together to better fight terrorism. By closing these information loopholes, we can keep terrorists on the run and off our shores.” House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce recognized Hurd for his unique insight as a result of being a former undercover CIA officer, commenting on the House floor, “I want to begin by thanking our colleague Mr. Hurd for his work here on behalf of the safety and security of the American people.” The bill received overwhelming bipartisan support and is Freshman Representative Will Hurd’s seventh bill to pass in the House. Homeland Security Committee- House Passes Five Homeland Security Bills Chairman McCaul: “The bills passed today include measures to enhance security in our aviation sector and southern border, as well as a bill from the Foreign Fighter Task Force that closes security gaps overseas.” House Committee on Foreign Affairs – House Acts to Keep America Safe Chairman Ed Royce: “This bill reflects the recommendations made by our colleagues on the Task Force, which we have worked together on. I thank Mr. Hurd and Chairman McCaul for their leadership working to make our nation safer against terrorist threats.” Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy: “Representative Will Hurd’s (TX-23) bill will strengthen our defenses by enabling the development of new software to screen travelers and identify those who are on law enforcement databases or terrorist watch lists. With this legislation, fewer would-be attackers will slip through the cracks, and the world will be that much safer.”
04.13.2016	Washington, DC—Huge strides were made today towards restoring commercial airline service to and from the city of Del Rio. The Treating Small Airports with Fairness Act will require TSA to provide screening to airports like Del Rio that lost commercial service after January 1, 2013, if an air carrier commits to providing commercial service to that airport within the year. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents Del Rio and co-authored the legislation, fought to carry the bill through the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. “People who are dependent on small airports in order to travel and conduct business, deserve the same security that those at larger airports receive,” said Hurd. “Del Rio is home to Laughlin AFB, numerous DHS facilities, and a growing community that facilitates international trade between the US and Mexico. Given the national and homeland security-related institutions serviced directly by the Del Rio Airport, and the potential boost to the economy, it only makes sense to provide basic screening.” “Today’s approval of the TSA Fairness Act is a great step towards restoring commercial air service at Del Rio Airport,” said Del Rio Mayor Robert Garza. “Ensuring safe travel in and out of Del Rio airport will help boost our local economy and expedite travel for individuals coming and going from Del Rio. I am grateful for the leadership of our Congressman, Will Hurd, for sponsoring this legislation and bringing this important community matter to the floor of the House of Representatives as well as seeing to its quick consideration and passage.” Identical legislation was introduced in the Senate and has since been included in the FAA Reauthorization, which is currently being debated on the Senate floor.
04.13.2016	Washington, DC—Today, Rep. Will Hurd led the House in passing critical legislation that will strengthen our border communities and increase cross border trade. Amongst other provisions in the bill, Hurd language was included, which provides stability to an innovative public-private partnerships program between Customs and Border Protection and local communities. The provision allows private and public sector partners to work together on updating and expanding Port of Entry facilities in order to process inspections more efficiently and effectively, helping local economies and businesses. “Trade is the lifeblood of many communities along the border, yet so many of them rely on ports of entry that are understaffed and out of date,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who represents over 820 miles of the Texas-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “Public-Private Partnerships will give communities and local businesses the opportunity to invest in better infrastructure, decreasing lengthy wait times and profoundly affecting their economies." “The public-private partnership that has been made possible by Section 559 is an example of the types of policy reforms we should be pursuing more of to improve the cross-border trade environment,” Border Trade Alliance Chairman Russ Jones said. “Sec. 559 has created a commonsense mechanism for local border communities to meet their own unique agency staffing and port of entry infrastructure needs. We commend Rep. Hurd and his colleagues for their hard work to ensure that this successful program is extended permanently.” ### Legislación de Hurd Respalda Comunidades Fronterizas Proyecto de Ley Impulsa Asociaciones Publicas-Privadas Hoy el Congresista Will Hurd lidero la Cámara en la aprobación de una legislación critica que fortalecerá las comunidades fronterizas y aumentara el comercio transfronterizo. El lenguaje legislativo de Hurd fue incluido en el proyecto de ley, la cual ofrecerá estabilidad para una colaboración innovadora de programas públicos y privados entre la Aduana y Protección Fronteriza y las comunidades locales. Esta provisión permite que asociaciones del sector público y privado trabajen juntos para actualizar y ampliar las facultades del Puerto de Entrada para poder procesar inspecciones más eficiente y efectivamente, ayudando a las economías y empresas locales. “El comercio es el sustento para muchas comunidades a lo largo de la frontera, pero muchos de ellos aun dependen de puertos de entrada que están faltos de personal y son anticuadas,” dijo el Congresista estadunidense Will Hurd, cuyo distrito cubre sobre 820 millas de la frontera entre Texas y México, más que cualquier otro miembro de la Cámara de Representantes. “Las Asociaciones Publicas-Privadas darán a las comunidades y negocios locales la oportunidad de invertir en mejor infraestructura, reduciendo un tiempo de espera extenso, afectando profundamente a su economía.”
04.08.2016	U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement regarding the tragic shooting at Lackland Air Force Base, located adjacent to the 23rd Congressional District of Texas: “Many constituents in my district live near and work at Lackland Air Force Base, and this tragic shooting will have a profound impact on this tight-knit community. My prayers are with everyone impacted by this tragedy. I commend the first-responders and base personnel for their bravery and professionalism.”
03.23.2016	Washington, DC-- Reestablishing commercial air service has been a priority the last three years for the City of Del Rio and Val Verde County since the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) ceased its operations at the Del Rio International Airport (DRT). With bipartisan, bicameral legislation on the right track to head to the floor, after being lead through a successful markup by Rep. Hurd, hopefully this will soon change. The Treating Small Airports (TSA) with Fairness Act of 2016 requires TSA to reinstate security screening at small airports across the country, including the one in Del Rio, Texas. “Del Rio is home to Laughlin AFB, numerous Department of Homeland Security facilities, and a growing community that facilitates international trade between the U.S. and Mexico. As this community continues to grow, it’s impractical for business travelers to drive over three hours to catch a flight at the next closest airport,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents Val Verde County and co-authored the legislation. “And frankly, patrons of these smaller airports deserve the same peace of mind while flying that customers of larger airports receive. I am proud to continue to work towards a legislative fix that will have tremendous economic, social, and safety benefits for Del Rio.” ###
03.18.2016	Washington, DC –With the support of Congressman Will Hurd, community health centers in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas have been awarded just under $20 million in federal grants during the first quarter of 2016. In recognition of Hurd’s exceptional support for health centers, The National Association of Community Health Centers named Hurd a 2016 Rising Community Health Center Leader, the only Texas member of the U.S. House of Representatives to receive this honor. “These local clinics have an enormous positive impact on the health and wellness of hundreds of thousands of people in my district, especially in underserved rural communities.” said Rep. Hurd, whose district has 38 of these community clinics. “The investment we make into these centers saves money by reducing hospitalizations and trips to the emergency room and I’m proud to support them. José E. Camacho, Executive Director and General Counsel of the Texas Association of Community Health Centers, has noted that nearly 220,000 Texans are served by these clinics is Hurd’s district, more than any other member of the Texas delegation. "Congressman Hurd has demonstrated a deep understanding of the value of Health Centers,” said Dr. Ernesto Gómez, President and CEO of CentroMed. “We are certain he will continue to play a vital role in promoting the important work that Health Centers do, thus, the designation of a 'Rising Star.' Thank you, Congressman Hurd and congratulations." Health centers provide high quality preventive and primary health care to medically underserved populations regardless of their ability to pay. The grants awarded will fund health centers in Crystal City, Uvalde, San Antonio, and Horizon City, among others. ###
03.16.2016	Washington, DC— El Paso Congressmen Will Hurd and Beto O’Rourke today participated in a panel discussing the importance of facilitating trade and commerce on the Texas-Mexico border. Hosted by the Brookings Institution’s Latin America Initiative and Americas Society/Council of the Americas, the panel explored how to balance the need for continued security, while making it easier to move goods and services across the border. “International trade and commerce is the life-blood for many cities and small towns in my district. Making it easier to safely move goods and services across the Texas-Mexico border benefits border communities throughout the State,” said Rep. Hurd, calling for an ‘intelligence-led’ approach. “Trade is a vital part of the Texas economy and it’s my duty to support policies that bolster trade, promote economic growth, and job creation in my district.” ###
03.16.2016	Washington, DC— Our nation’s veterans continue to face lengthy and frustrating wait times, despite multiple attempts to modernize the Department of Veterans Affairs. All the while, the VA has been unable to implement an electronic health record system that is both secure against cyber-attacks and is interoperable with the Department of Defense and private sector health care providers. To address these issues, Oversight and Government Reform IT Subcommittee Chair Will Hurd (R-TX) hosted a hearing to examine the VA’s implementation of cybersecurity reforms, their development of an interoperable electronic database, and how to best utilize private-sector, ‘off-the-shelf’ technology in order to benefit Veterans. Chairman Hurd has partnered with Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) in support of H.R. 4352, The Faster Care for Veterans Act, and used today’s hearing as an opportunity to tout reforms the legislation would put in place. “The modernization of the VA’s legacy technology is a real concern that is affecting millions of Veterans. Systems are unsecure, inefficient, and inoperable. The missed deadlines, cost overruns, and failures to deliver on expectations have real consequences for Texas Veterans. Veterans are faced with lengthy wait times to schedule appointments and their medical records are vulnerable to data breaches,” stated Rep. Will Hurd, Chair of the IT Subcommittee during his opening comments. “I have said it time and again, the tools to solve these problems exist in the private sector. The hearing evaluated ways to implement private-sector tools for the VA to secure health records and reduce scheduling wait times.” “Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world,” said Moulton. “Self-scheduling technologies have been widely successful in the private sector at reducing the number of missed or canceled appointments, saving our health system money, and creating a better experience for patients and doctors. This bipartisan bill would utilize existing technology to improve access to VA health care. We owe it to our veterans to provide access to high-quality care. If private patients have access to this successful technology, veterans should, too. I’m grateful to Congressman Hurd for his support, and for scheduling a committee hearing for the bill.”
03.08.2016	Washington, DC—U.S. Representative Will Hurd announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded over $9 million for Centro-Med health centers in San Antonio, including over $2 million for Vida Y Salud Health Systems in Crystal City, and over $3 million for Community Health Development, Inc. (CHDI) health clinics in Uvalde. These providers have a long history in the community and have been recognized by HHS before for funding. This latest round is further recognition of the work they do on behalf of those they serve. “Community health clinics provide affordable, quality healthcare to many vulnerable and underserved communities in Texas,” said Rep. Hurd in support of the grants. “I am pleased to see continued investment and support for the deserving providers in my district that serve many of those who are most at risk.” “As one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Centers in Texas, CentroMed provides medical, dental and behavioral services to approximately 70,000 patients in the San Antonio and New Braunfels areas. The funding support received through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services enables us to provide these much-needed healthcare services to area residents and, in turn, improve the overall health of the communities we serve,” said Dr. Ernesto Gómez, CentroMed President and CEO. “We are very excited to know that Vida Y Salud Health Systems, Inc. has been awarded its continuation grant award for FY 2016-17,” added Nora Tellez, CEO of Vida Y Salud Health Systems. “It will allow us to continue providing quality medical, dental, integrated behavioral health and ancillary services to meet our community’s needs!” “For 33 years, CHDI has strived to improve the health status of its patients and ensure access to quality, affordable health care in a comprehensive manner. CHDI is the health care home of over 1/3 of the population of Uvalde, Real, Edwards and parts of Zavala Counties with a budget that supports approximately 100 full-time employees, including Doctors and Dentists,” said Rachel A. Gonzales-Hanson, CEO of CHDI. “This federal grant is an essential part of our operating budget. It enables us to ensure access to health care for those with limited resources.” Assistance with grant requests is one of the many ways Rep. Hurd and his staff can serve the district. For more information, please call the San Antonio District office at 210-921-3130. ### Clínicas de Salud en Uvalde y San Antonio Reciben $15 Millones en Subsidios Federales ‘Clínicas de salud comunitarias ofrecen cuidado médico de calidad económica’ Washington, DC – El Representante Will Hurd anunció hoy que el Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (HHS) otorgo más de $9 millones para los centros de salud Centro-Med en San Antonio, incluyendo más de $2 millones para el Sistema de Salud Vida y Salud en Crystal City, y más de $3 millones para las clínicas del Desarrollo de la Salud Comunitaria, Inc. (CHDI) en Uvalde. Estos proveedores tienen un historial en la comunidad y han sido reconocidos de parte del HHS antes de recibir estos fondos. Esta otorgación de subsidios es un reconocimiento más de todo el trabajo que hacen por aquellos a quienes sirven. “Clínicas de salud comunitarias ofrecen cuidado médico de calidad económica a muchas comunidades vulnerables y marginadas en Texas,” dijo el Rep. Hurd en apoyo a los subsidios. “Estoy contento de ver la inversión continua y el apoyo muy merecido para estos proveedores en mi distrito que sirven a los que están más en riesgo.” "Como uno de los centros de salud federalmente calificados más grandes en Texas, CentroMed ofrece servicios médicos, dentales y de comportamiento a aproximadamente 70.000 pacientes en las zonas de San Antonio y New Braunfels. El apoyo financiero recibido de parte del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos nos permite ofrecer servicios de atención médica necesaria a los residentes del área y, a la vez, mejorar la salud general de las comunidades que servimos," dijo Dr. Ernesto Gómez, Presidente de CentroMed. "Estamos muy contentos de saber que el Sistema de Salud Vida Y Salud Inc. ha recibido los subsidios de continuación para el año fiscal 2016-17," agregó Nora Tellez, CEO del Sistema de Salud Vida Y Salud. "¡Nos permitirá continuar ofreciendo servicios médico, dental, salud conductual integrado y servicios complementarios para satisfacer las necesidades de nuestra comunidad!" "Por 33 años, CHDI se ha esforzado por mejorar la salud de sus pacientes y garantizarles el acceso a la cuidado médico de salud económico de una forma integral. CHDI es el cuidado de salud casero de 1/3 de la población de Uvalde, Real, Edwards y partes de los condados de Zavala con un presupuesto que soporta aproximadamente 100 empleados a tiempo completo, incluyendo los médicos y dentistas, "dijo Rachel A. Gonzales-Hanson, CEO de CHDI. "Este subsidio federal es una parte esencial de nuestro presupuesto. Esto nos permite garantizar el acceso a servicios de salud para aquellos con recursos limitados." Asistencia con solicitudes de subsidios es una de las muchas maneras que el Representante Hurd y su equipo puede apoyar al distrito. Para obtener más información, por favor llame a la oficina del distrito de San Antonio al 210-921-3130.
03.01.2016	Washington, DC - Texas Congressmen Will Hurd and John Ratcliffe, released the following statement regarding the Obama administration’s announcement that it plans to seek to revisit the 2013 Wassenaar Agreement to remove fundamental cybersecurity technologies from a list of export controls: “We would like to commend the Administration’s decision to submit a proposal to the Wassenaar Arrangement to renegotiate the 2013 export control on cybersecurity technologies. We appreciate the Departments of State, Commerce and Homeland Security for actively engaging with Congress on this important issue that affects the cybersecurity posture of the United States. It is our hope that the United States' delegation to the Wassenaar Arrangement will successfully obtain a consensus on its proposal, which should address a substantial share of the bipartisan concerns expressed at our January hearing . We will continue to monitor this as it progresses through the year. We want to express our gratitude to the U.S. tech industry for its responsiveness and dedication throughout this process.” Hurd and Ratcliffe have been two of the strongest advocates for a renegotiation, chairing a joint hearing on the topic and authoring a joint op-ed. Both members have strongly advocated for the administration to return to the drawing board. Ratcliffe represents the 4th Congressional District of Texas and is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies Subcommittee. Hurd, Chairman of the IT Subcommittee for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. ###
02.29.2016	Washington, DC – Touting both his experience in the cyber industry, as well as his many years as an undercover CIA officer, Texas Congressman Will Hurd, reacted in support of Chairman Michael McCaul’s legislation to create the Digital Security Commission: “Protecting our civil liberties, while giving law enforcement the tools they need to catch terrorists, is a balance we can and must maintain. I helped start a cybersecurity firm and I spent almost a decade in the CIA chasing bad guys, so I understand this issue better than most. I commend Chairman McCaul for taking the initiative to begin to solve this problem. Bringing everyone together to speak to each other, instead of past each other, is a vital first step.”
02.26.2016	Washington, DC —Federal funding for three border infrastructure projects in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas was approved today by the Texas Transportation Commission. The following counties and projects will receive Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) funding: Presidio County: Additional bridge structure at Presidio-Ojinaga International Port-of-Entry Maverick County: Widening to 5-Lanes US 277 from State Loop 480 into Eagle Pass Maverick, Kinney, and Val Verde Counties: Addition of 2 Passing Lanes on US 277 between Eagle Pass and Del Rio “The Border Trade Alliance was proud to work with Senator Cornyn, Representative Hurd and others – including Chairman Schuster – to help make the CBI flex funding a reality,” said Noe Garcia, President of the Border Trade Alliance. “The recent announcement by the Texas Department of Transportation is great news for the citizens of Del Rio and Val Verde County,” said Blanca Larson, Executive Director of the Del Rio Chamber of Commerce. “Our goal at The Del Rio Chamber of Commerce is to promote and stimulate economic development, and to create opportunities for members, corporations and small businesses. The expansion of a major artery in and out of Val Verde County will strengthen our economic potential and expedite commerce for our businesses across Texas. A big thanks to our Member of Congress, Will Hurd, for helping to make this project a reality.” “I want to thank Congressman Hurd for his hard work on this issue,” said Kinney County Judge Tully Shahan. “U.S. 277 is becoming increasingly busy and these funds are extremely valuable.” The funds come from the long-term highway funding bill, or FAST Act, that was signed into law in December 2015. It included bipartisan legislation introduced by Hurd and his colleagues Michael McCaul (R-TX ), Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), that created a Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) Reserve Fund, giving Border States more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds. The legislation generates an average of $3.67 billion per year for the next five years for Texas transportation projects. These projects are a direct result of Hurd’s legislative initiative. Construction is expected to begin in upcoming months. ###
02.23.2016	Washington, DC—Former CIA officer, Representative Will Hurd, shepherded his sixth bill through the U.S. House of Representatives today, this one focused on providing law enforcement the information necessary to stop Foreign Fighters from traveling overseas to fight with ISIS and then returning to the Homeland. “Since 2011, there have been over 250 cases of Americans attempting to or succeeding in traveling to Syria or Iraq in order to support terrorist groups. More than 85% of them succeeded,” Rep. Hurd warned. “Allowing these fighters to make it to a war zone gives them the ability to gain experience and knowledge that can be used against us. This bill will help law enforcement learn how to identify these people before they leave the country in the first place. ” The Foreign Fighter Review Act of 2016, requires the Department of Homeland Security to do an end to end review of all known foreign fighter travel to identify the specific challenges that law enforcement faces in its attempts to stop individuals from joining terrorist groups in Iraq and Syria. DHS will then submit their findings to Congress so that appropriate action can be taken to improve the security of our nation. It passed the House 397 - 0. ### Additional Information: Hurd Named to Task Force Focused on Terrorist, Foreign Fighter Travel Threat Hurd Bill to Protect Border Patrol Agent Pay Becomes Law Second Hurd Bill Signed Into Law Hurd Bill Offers Cyber Assistance to State and Local Governments Congressman Hurd, Texas Members Announce Passage of Border Infrastructure Funding in Long-Term Highway Bill Hurd Language Included in Cyber Information Sharing Legislation Legislación que Ayudara a Reducir Combatientes Extranjeros Se Aprueba en la Cámara Washington, DC – Hoy, El ex oficial de la CIA, el Congresista Will Hurd sometió su sexta legislación a la Cámara de Representantes hoy. Esta legislación se enfoca en proveer información crítica a las autoridades para detener a los combatientes extranjeros que quieran viajar para luchar al lado de ISIS, y luego regresar a casa. “Desde el 2011, ha habido más de 250 casos de ciudadanos estadounidenses que han intentado o han logrado viaja a Siria o Iraq para apoyar a grupos terroristas. Más del 85% de ellos lo lograron,” advirtió el Rep. Hurd. “Permitiendo que estos combatientes lleguen al campo de guerra les da la habilidad de obtener la experiencia y conocimiento que se puede utilizar en contra nuestra. Esta legislación ayudara a las autoridades a aprender cómo identificar estas personas antes que salgan del país.” El Foreign Fighter Review Act of 2016 requiere que el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional haga un análisis completo de todos los viajes de combatientes extranjeros que se conocen para identificar las dificultades que enfrentan las autoridades en su intención de detener a individuos que pretendan tomar parte de grupos terroristas en Siria y Iraq. El DHS entregara los resultados al Congreso para que las acciones apropiadas sean tomadas para mejorar la seguridad de nuestra nación. ### Información Adicional: Hurd Named to Task Force Focused on Terrorist, Foreign Fighter Travel Threat Hurd Bill to Protect Border Patrol Agent Pay Becomes Law Second Hurd Bill Signed Into Law Hurd Bill Offers Cyber Assistance to State and Local Governments Congressman Hurd, Texas Members Announce Passage of Border Infrastructure Funding in Long-Term Highway Bill Hurd Language Included in Cyber Information Sharing Legislation
02.22.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd, former undercover CIA officer and Chairman of the IT Subcommittee for Oversight and Government Reform, reacted strongly today to the announcement that Office of Personal Management (OPM) Chief Information Officer (CIO), Donna Seymour, would retire, effective immediately, just two days before she is scheduled to testify on her continued failure to secure the personalinformation of millions of Americans. “Former CIO Seymour's refusal to heed the advice contained in numerous reports by the IG contributed to the exfiltration of the personal identifiable information for 24 million Americans. Her refusal to follow best practices and take responsibility initially is an insult to those compromised. Unfortunately, this is little comfort knowing their information could be in the hands of our nation’s enemies. The next OPM CIO must have a strong understanding of basic cyber hygiene and the willingness to do what it takes to get this problem fixed. I look forward to working with Acting Director Cobert and the next CIO to secure OPM’s systems." ###
02.22.2016	Del Rio, Texas—As part of a community effort to produce more technical professionals, the San Felipe Del Rio CISD (SFDRCISD) has partnered with Laughlin AFB to open a new science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) magnet school. The school will operate as an affiliate of SFDRCISD but be located on base due to a leasing agreement with the Department of Defense. “To maintain our national security, we must have enough creative problem solvers and leaders to fill jobs not only in today’s industries, but also in the industries that don’t even exist yet,” explained U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents Val Verde County, home to Laughlin AFB. “Children enrolled in STEM courses today, are tomorrow’s cybersecurity experts who will protect our infrastructure from debilitating cyber-attacks. They are the physicians and scientists who will develop innovative medical treatments that save soldiers’ lives. They are the engineers who will build jets that fly faster, higher, and farther. Prioritizing STEM education initiatives will drive technological advancement and innovation across every industry, project American influence across the globe, and keep Americans safe.” "The San Felipe Del Rio CISD applauds the Air Force for giving the green light to finalize the terms for a long-term lease of a new school at Laughlin Air Force Base," said Superintendent Carlos H. Rios, Ed.D. "Ensuring access to quality education to the Laughlin military and civilian communities is a major priority, and strengthening our academic infrastructure will encourage Air Force members to continue to choose Laughlin as their base assignment. This would not have been possible without the continued support of our local community and our Congressman, Will Hurd." Rep. Hurd has been helping to expedite the arrangement so that the school will be open in time for the 2016-17 school year. Hurd helped pursue a legislative fix to the leasing agreement when he sat on the FY16 NDAA Conference Committee, which ultimately produced legislation allowing these leases to move forward. Additionally, Hurd engaged with senior Air Force leadership including the Undersecretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force to bring the innovative solution to their attention. ###
02.18.2016	San Antonio, TX —In response to the President’s 2017 Budget which includes $77 billion in cuts to the Medicare Advantage (MA) program, U.S. Representative Hurd joined over 300 bipartisan Members of the House of Representatives in sending a letter urging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to protect MA and the high quality health plan choices it provides to millions of seniors and individuals with disabilities. “My parents are among the over 15 million seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage nationwide. We need to strengthen Medicare at-large and provide stability for seniors and their doctors,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd of Texas, a state in which one-third of all Medicare beneficiaries are enrolled in Medicare Advantage. “Previous generations helped build our nation, and they deserve the benefits they worked hard to earn.” Medicare Advantage (MA) is a U.S. health insurance program that provides similar benefits as the original Medicare parts A and B benefits, but is offered by commercial insurance companies that do not process claims through the government, increasing choice and saving taxpayer dollars. ### MA House letter 2.16 FINAL.pdf Miembros de la Cámara Defienden Medicare Advantage ‘Los mayores de edad merecen los beneficios por los cuales han trabajado’ San Antonio, TX – En respuesta al Presupuesto del Presidente del 2017 que incluye $77 mil de millones de reducción para el programa Medicare Advantage (MA), el Congresista estadounidense Will Hurd se unió al grupo bipartidista compuesto de miembros de la Cámara de Representantes que enviaron una carta urgiendo al Centros para Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid (CMS por sus siglas en inglés) a proteger el MA y las opciones de plan de salud de alta calidad que se le ofrecen a millones de ancianos e individuos deshabilitados. “Mis padres están entre los 15 millones de ancianos inscritos en Medicare Advantage al nivel nacional. Necesitamos fortalecer el Medicare en general y proveer estabilidad para los ancianos y sus médicos,” dijo el Congresista Will Hurd de Texas, un estado donde la tercera parte de todos los beneficiarios de Medicare están inscritos en Medicare Advantage. “Previas generaciones ayudaron a construir nuestra nación, y se merecen todos los beneficios por los cuales han trabajado.” Medicare Advantage (MA) es un programa de seguro médico estadounidense que provee beneficios similares a los beneficios originales de Medicare partes A y B, pero son ofrecidos por compañías de seguro comercial que no procesan reclamos a través del gobierno, aumentando opciones y ahorrando dinero para los contribuyentes.
02.12.2016	Washington, DC – It has been three years since TSA ceased its operations at the Del Rio, Texas International Airport (DRT). Reestablishing commercial air service has been a priority for the City of Del Rio and Val Verde County, but continues to be a challenge without TSA support. As a result, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents Val Verde County, co-authored bipartisan, bicameral legislation requiring TSA to reinstate security screening at the Del Rio Airport, as well as at other small airports across the country. “Del Rio is home to Laughlin AFB, numerous DHS facilities, and a growing community that facilitates international trade between the US and Mexico. As this community continues to grow, it’s impractical for business travelers to drive over 3 hours to catch a flight at the nearest airport in San Antonio,” said Rep. Hurd. “Given the national and homeland security-related institutions serviced directly by DRT, TSA should conduct security monitoring at this facility once again.” “Together with the City of Del Rio, Val Verde County is anticipating TSA screening services at the Del Rio International Airport in order to provide commercial airline service to the City, County and the region,” stated Val Verde County Judge, the Honorable Efrain Valdez. “Val Verde County would like to thank Texas Congressional leaders such as Congressman Will Hurd and the other Congressional leaders in multiple states who have collaborated on potential funding in hopes of securing TSA services whose communities are in a similar situation.” Del Rio Mayor Robert Garza added, “We remain optimistic in getting TSA screening services to the Del Rio International Airport. We are appreciative of Congressman Will Hurd and the other Congressional leaders who are working diligently to help us secure a commitment from TSA. This does not only benefit our community, but it will benefit 26 cities in multiple states which are in the same situation.” ###
02.11.2016	Washington, DC—San Antonio native, U.S. Representative Will Hurd, is being recognized by Federal Computer Week for his leadership in Congress in reforming how Information Technology is used by the federal government. FCW published on Monday their list of individuals being honored with their Federal 100 Awards, with Hurd being the only Member of Congress included. FCW Editor-in-Chief Troy K. Schneider explained, “For 27 years now, the Federal 100 Awards have been recognizing the individuals who really matter in federal IT, and whose efforts are making government markedly better. Congressman Hurd is clearly in that category — he brings real expertise to his oversight role, and has quickly turned the Subcommittee on Information Technology into a substantive and constructive force.” In response, Rep. Hurd, who has utilized private and public sector IT experience, offered, “This award is about San Antonio. It showcases the IT talent and resources that are flourishing in my hometown. Department of Defense investment in cyber initiatives, growth in private sector IT firms, and an increased emphasis on STEM education are laying the foundation for San Antonio to transform into a digital boomtown. San Antonio has truly earned the nickname, Cybersecurity City, USA.” Also being honored is Danielle Metz with the Office of the CIO, Department of Defense, for her role in launching the Joint Regional Security Stacks at Joint Base San Antonio. According to her nomination, ‘her tireless efforts brought together a team and aligned objectives of these various stakeholders to extend an initial DISA/Army partnership to a DoD wide effort.’ The Federal 100 Award is bestowed upon government, industry and academic leaders who have played pivotal roles in the use of information technology by the federal government. They are presented by Federal Computer Week (FCW), a nationally read publication focused on technology use by the federal government. Prior winners include U.S. senators and representatives, military leadership and industry CEOs. ###
02.09.2016	Washington, DC — Several veteran bills covering critical issues such as health care improvement, mental health, and job preparedness were passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in an effort to continue improving the services and treatment offered to our nation’s heroes. “Serving in the CIA alongside our men and women in uniform allowed me to see firsthand the sacrifices they make to keep Americans safe,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who was deployed to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, before being elected to represent the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “Veterans in my district tell me that they feel forgotten by our government once they leave the military. After all their sacrifice, that’s outrageous.” Today’s bills include: American Heroes COLA Act - provides disabled veterans and their families an annual cost of living adjustment for 9-years VA Medical Center Recovery Act - sends rapid-deployment teams to underperforming VA centers Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act - identifies and improves VA mental health and suicide prevention programs for women Career-Ready Student Veterans Act - expands veterans’ tuition benefits for education programs that prepare students for vocational certifications and licensures “Important strides were made today, but until VA wait times that have been a problem for years cease to exist and our nation’s heroes can easily find employment after they leave the service, there will be more work to be done.” ### Empleo y Seguro de Salud Fueron Tratados Con Las Legislaciones Sobre Veteranos Fueron Aprobados En La Cámara de Representantes ‘Hoy se lograron pasos importantes; pero aún hay más trabajo por delante’ Washington, DC – Varias legislaciones sobre veteranos tratando asuntos críticos como mejorando el seguro médico, la salud mental, y la preparación de empleo, fueron aprobados en la Cámara de Representantes en un esfuerzo para continuar a mejorar a los tratamientos y servicios ofrecidos a los héroes de esta nación. “Al especializarme como un agente en la CIA junto a los hombres y mujeres de servicio, pude ver a primera mano los sacrificios que hacen para mantener la seguridad de los ciudadanos estadounidenses,” dijo el Congresista Will Hurd, quien fue desplegado a Afganistán, Pakistán, y la India, antes de ser elegido para representar el Distrito Congresional 23 de Texas. “Los veteranos en mi distrito me dicen que se sienten olvidados por nuestro gobierno al terminar su servicio militar. Después de todos sus sacrificios, esto es indignante.” Las legislaciones de hoy incluyen: · American Heroes COLA Act – proporciona un ajuste anual del costo de vida a los veteranos deshabilitados y a sus familias por 9 años. · VA Medical Center Recovery Act – envía un equipo de intervención rápida a centros de VA con mal rendimiento · Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act – identifica y mejora los programas para mujeres de la prevención del suicidio y de salud mental del VA · Career-Ready Student Veterans Act – amplifica los beneficios de matrícula para veteranos en programas educativos que preparen a los estudiantes para licenciaturas y certificados profesionales “Hoy se lograron pasos importantes, pero hasta que el tiempo de espera en él VA, que ha sido un problema por muchos años, cese de existir y nuestros héroes puedan fácilmente encontrar empleo después de retirarse del servicio militar, siempre habrá más trabajo por delante”
02.05.2016	Washington, DC—San Antonio leadership is working together to drive the city’s economic future. This week, over 170 San Antonio civic and business leaders wrapped up their annual SA to DC lobby trip organized by the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce earning widespread support for numerous initiatives on the national agenda. “SA to DC is one of my favorite times of the year. It helps me to hear directly from my constituents about how I can best represent Bexar County,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas from San Antonio to El Paso. “More importantly, it allows the San Antonio congressional delegation a platform to provide bipartisan solutions for the city’s most pressing issues.” The 2015 SA to DC trip resulted in bipartisan and multi-level coordination to secure funding for a new Federal Courthouse. Rep. Hurd’s office actively participated in the 2016 SA to DC activities by hosting a cybersecurity panel with experts from the private and public sectors including House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul and DHS Undersecretary Suzanne Spaulding, hosting Speaker Paul Ryan at an evening reception, and meeting with local stakeholders on legislative priorities. “I am proud to work with so many enthusiastic champions for my hometown. I look forward to seeing what we will accomplish together in 2016.” ###
02.03.2016	Washington, DC—A grant of $1,692,000 and a water and waste disposal loan of $1,576,000 was announced for the Tornillo Water Improvement District by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. “I am proud that local and federal agencies were able to work together to support the community’s needs. This is a huge win for the local community,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, whose district covers the Tornillo area. According to the USDA Project Announcement, these funds will be used to improve the existing Tornillo water system with the construction of a new 40,000 gallon water storage tank, a new well, and increasing several transmission mains. These improvements will maintain regulatory compliance with Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and allow the District to have sufficient capacity to convey the water from the wells. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, DC— Iran successfully tested medium-range ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads on Oct. 10 and Nov. 21 in 2015. After a lack of response from the White House, Congress acted to apply more pressure on the rogue nation with a bill designed to strengthen sanctions. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, former CIA officer and current member of the House Committee of Homeland Security, recently stated in the San Antonio Express News that “If we do not enforce consequences, Iran will continue violating Security Council resolutions. Not only are we allowing a greedy state to inch closer to nuclear capability, but we are encouraging other countries like Russia to stretch the limits of their actions around the globe.” The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act requires the Administration to guarantee that no individuals or banks are supporting the Iranian nuclear weapons program before sanctions can be lifted by the President. Hurd adds, “Twice, I have taken an oath to protect and defend the nation against threats both foreign and domestic. Allowing Iran to flout obvious breaches to Obama’s nuclear agreement without consequence threatens both our safety and credibility in the region. I have made it one of my highest priorities in Congress to restore America’s leadership on the world stage. Holding our enemies accountable is a mandatory piece of the puzzle.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, DC—In response to the President’s veto of the Reconciliation bill that guts ObamaCare and reduces the federal budget by $516 billion over the next ten years, House Republicans held a vote to over-ride the President’s attempt to protect his failed signature legislation. Unfortunately, the vote fell short today due to every Democrat voting along party lines against the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. “Congressional Republicans proved through this legislation that repealing ObamaCare is just a matter of time. All we need is a Republican in the White House to seal the deal,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “Every Democrat who voted to uphold the President’s veto decided to put politics ahead of the American people who are struggling with skyrocketing premiums and unaffordable out-of-pocket expenses. They also prioritized funding abortion providers over the thousands of health care clinics that offer quality, affordable health care for women and families in our communities. They agreed with the President to continue to saddle future generations with an ever-increasing government debt. Families in my district will not forget who sided against the American people come November.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, DC—Over 139 million unique Social Security Numbers and $1.2 trillion in assets overseen by the Department of Education (ED) continue to be vulnerable to security threats, according to repeat findings by the Inspector General. “Despite repeated recommendations and an ongoing investigation, the Department of Education’s cybersecurity neglect has put our children’s privacy at risk,” explained U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a cybersecurity expert and Chairman of a House Subcommittee on Information Technology. “This is a disturbing case of government inefficiency that I fear will result in a detrimental privacy breach.” Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing examining the conduct of the ED’s Chief Information Officer (CIO) who is responsible for overseeing the Department’s inadequate information systems and implementing reforms. The hearing serves as a follow up to November 2015 hearing that instructed the ED to implement immediate IT recommendations. “There is no excuse for jeopardizing the privacy of our nation’s children,” said Hurd. “If we learn that the CIO impeded or ignored the Committee’s recommendations, accountability will be my highest priority.” ### La Privacidad de Nuestros Hijos Esta En Riesgo El Departamento de Educación está expuesto a amenazas de seguridad Washington, DC – Más de 139 millones de números de Seguro Social y $1.2 billones en bienes supervisados por el Departamento de Educación (ED por sus siglas en inglés) continúan a ser expuestos a amenazas de seguridad, según reportes por el Inspector General. “A pesar de recomendaciones repetidas y una investigación corriente, la negligencia en la seguridad cibernética del Departamento de Educación ha puesto la privacidad de nuestros hijos en riesgo,” explico el Representante Will Hurd, un experto en seguridad cibernética y presidente del Subcomité sobre la Información Tecnológica. “Este es un caso de ineficiencia del gobierno preocupante que yo temo resultara en violación de privacidad dañina.” Hoy, el Comité sobre la Supervisión y Reforma Gubernamental de la Cámara de Representantes tuvo una audiencia para examinar la conducta del Jefe de Información (CIO por sus siglas en inglés) del ED, quien es responsable por supervisar los sistemas inadecuados de información del departamento, e implementar reformas. Esta audiencia es subsiguiente a la del Noviembre del 2015 en donde se le había instruido al ED que implementara las recomendaciones inmediatas de IT. “No hay excusa para arriesgar la privacidad de nuestros hijos,” dijo Hurd. “Si nos enteramos que el CIO impidió o ignoro las recomendaciones del Comité – responsabilizarlo será mi mayor prioridad”
01.20.2016	San Antonio, TEXAS – Offering his congratulations and well-wishes to root9B executives at their ribbon-cutting today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd spoke of how his hometown of San Antonio, Texas is building its reputation as the place for cyber companies to locate. “San Antonio continues to prove that they have the resources and desire to attract the best and brightest of the cyber industry, and root9B’s decision to locate here is confirmation their efforts are paying off,” said Hurd, a former cybersecurity firm advisor who has championed the cyber industry in San Antonio for years. “Between the public and private sector advancements in our city, I have no doubt the whole world will soon refer to us as Cyber City, USA.” Hurd joined Judge Nelson Wolf and City Councilman Robert Trevino at today’s event, along with root9B officers Eric Hipkins – CEO, John Harbaugh – CFO, Mike Morris - CTO, and Scott Myers, Senior Vice President. A leading provider of advanced cybersecurity services, root9B was listed yesterday as number one in the Cybersecurity 500 list of the most innovative companies for 2016. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, DC— Condemning yet another executive overreach by the Obama Administration, the House passed a formal disapproval of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, sending the Joint Resolution to the President’s desk. “The WOTUS rule is a dangerous power grab that gives the federal government too much control and is a direct violation of Americans’ private property rights,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents many family farmers and ranchers who would be significantly impacted by this rule. “As I have said before, there is no legitimate reason for the EPA to regulate dry ditches on farm land.” The measure comes three months after the Sixth Court of Appeal ruling that put a nationwide stay on the overreaching rule. Hurd previously voted for legislation that required the EPA to withdraw their proposed rule and has called for Congress to defund implementation. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, DC— Congress must act because the Obama administration will not. The House voted this week to strengthen sanctions against two rogue nations -- North Korea and Iran -- that continue to flout international agreements. “The President’s refusal to forcefully respond to their aggressive posturing undermines our allies’ confidence and projects weakness to our enemies,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “The President has made it clear that national security is not a priority, so Congress will pick up the slack.” The North Korean Sanctions Enforcement Act of 2015 requires the President to apply sanctions to any person, foreign government, or banking institution that contributes to advancing North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act requires the Administration to guarantee that no individuals or banks are supporting the Iranian nuclear weapons program before sanctions can be lifted. “Ignoring the continued efforts of radical regimes to strengthen their nuclear capabilities emboldens our enemies to attack the Homeland and further undermines U.S. credibility to the rest of the world,” Hurd concluded. ###
01.12.2016	Washington, DC—In anticipation of the President’s last State of the Union Address, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement: “ISIS is targeting our Homeland, Iran is testing ballistic missiles and North Korea is setting off nukes. Tonight, I hope to hear that the President is working with our regional partners to implement a bold plan to defeat our enemies. Our economy continues to stagnate and our Middle Class feels the American Dream is slipping away. I hope to hear a message that seeks to unite our troubled nation, but expect we will hear another empty speech that divides our country and distracts from the President’s failed domestic and foreign policies.” ###
01.06.2016	Washington, DC— Congress fired their first salvo of the year at President Obama by sending him legislation which guts the Affordable Care Act, while reducing the federal deficit by $516 billion over the next ten years. “ObamaCare has proven to be unaffordable for American families and small businesses,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, referencing skyrocketing premiums and out-of-pocket expenses. “The federal government has no business forcing Americans to buy something against their will.” The bill also defunds Planned Parenthood, redirecting those funds to thousands of community health centers that provide high-quality, affordable health care to millions of Americans. “The cost-effective and preventive care these clinics offer to families in my district is invaluable,” Hurd concluded. ###
01.05.2016	Washington, DC—U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement in response to the President’s intention to use executive action to impact the Second Amendment: “President Obama’s announcement of his executive order to restrict the constitutional right of law-abiding citizens is yet another attempt to circumvent the legislative branch and impose his agenda on the American public. The President is ignoring that the law already requires people who sell firearms for a living to be licensed. He should instead target the criminals who aren’t following the law in the first place. The level of executive overreach is outrageous and is another assault on the liberties our nation was built upon. I am a firm believer in the plain language of the Second Amendment, guaranteeing the right to keep and bear arms. Congress will conduct vigilant oversight and this executive order will no doubt be challenged in the courts.”
12.18.2015	Washington, DC - Included in the Fiscal Year 2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which passed House of Representatives today by a vote of 316-113, was an important cybersecurityagreement that creates a voluntary information sharing process between the public and private sectors. The bill also included provisions authored by U.S. Representative Will Hurd that will authorize the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to deploy the EINSTEIN 3A (E3A) program, which is an advanced tool that the U.S. government can use to respond to and mitigate cyber threats. E3A provides a perimeter defense snapshot and acts as a first line of defense against cyber espionage. DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson has explicitly called for EINSTEIN’s authorization by Congress. “Every day and every hour, hacktivists and foreign adversaries are attempting to breach U.S. government systems,” said Congressman Hurd. “High-profile breaches such as OPM and Anthem have only illustrated how much of an issue this is today. I believe that the EINSTEIN program is a valuable tool that the U.S. Government can deploy to respond to and mitigate cyber threats, and I am thrilled that this provision was included in final passage of this landmark information sharing legislation." “Congressman Hurd’s knowledge on this issue was extremely beneficial during our negotiations. His leadership on the EINSTEIN authorization language was also key, as this program will play a large role in giving DHS the tools necessary to protect our digital infrastructure. I want to thank Will for his efforts and look forward to working with him to protect our digital landscape moving forward,” said Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Rep. Michael McCaul. “Congressman Hurd played a vital role in negotiations on the cyber bill and in building support for its passage," said Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. "He understands that it’s critical for our economy and for our national security to strengthen defenses of our digital infrastructure. I’m grateful for his help in getting this crucial bill enacted into law.” The FY16 Consolidated Appropriations Act has been sent to the President’s desk.
12.18.2015	Washington, DC— The 23rd Congressional District of Texas notched several wins today with the passage of the FY 2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill provides full funding for defense and national security initiatives, tightens the Visa Waiver Program to prevent terrorist travel into the US and repeals the outdated oil export ban. “The economy and security are the two most important issues to my constituents,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “We are strengthening national security so we can confidently confront radical terror threats. We’re also including several game-changing measures that will recharge our nation’s economy and protect small businesses from over-burdensome taxes. Lifting the oil ban alone will generate billions for our nation’s economy, enhance National Energy Security, and provide jobs for thousands of Texans.” The FY 2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act passed with a final vote of 316-113 and has been sent to the Senate. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – The long-term highway funding bill, or FAST Act, that was signed into law on December 4, 2015, created a designated highway corridor that will become Interstate 14. The proposed TX-23 portion of the corridor will be built on the existing infrastructure of Highway 190 and run from Interstate 10 just west of Iraan, through Eldorado and all the way to Augusta, Georgia. “This is exciting news for the residents of Schleicher, Crockett and Pecos Counties,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who represents these counties. “Transportation infrastructure is a proven driver of jobs and economic development.” Hurd supported the legislation and helped negotiate the compromise legislation between House and Senate versions. “This is an exciting win for the communities of Iraan and Eldorado, who are sure to see an uptick in business and commerce with the development of this new interstate. I look forward to one day traveling down I-14 in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas." The timeline for the completion of the corridor will be dependent upon numerous factors, including state and local funding and environmental and route studies. ###
12.17.2015	Washington, DC—Legislation that will prevent significant tax hikes for millions of Americans and extend tax relief programs that empower job creators, was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act makes permanent over 20 tax relief provisions and extends for 5 years or 2 years a number of other tax relief measures that expired in 2014. “Less taxes to Washington means more money in the pockets of hard-working Americans,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “This bill will drive economic growth by saving businesses money and empowering them to invest in future development.” Highlights of the bill include: A permanent tax credit for research and development that is estimated to increase the amount of research American companies undertake by 10% A deduction for teachers who spend their own money on classroom expenses A 2-year moratorium on the medical device tax, the existing speedbump for inventors that develop breakthrough medical technologies Section 179 expensing for cyclical businesses, especially farms, so that they may invest in new property and equipment in more profitable years A 15-year recovery for leasehold and restaurant improvements, so the thousands of family-owned restaurants in TX-23 can invest in their facilities Charitable deduction allowed for contributions to agricultural research organizations A number of reforms designed to better protect taxpayers from IRS abuse including easier terminations for IRS employees and a streamlined process for political organizations seeking 501(c)4 status “This is one of the most important tax initiatives for small business in the past decade and we’re very grateful to Rep. Hurd for having been a strong supporter,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “Rep. Hurd clearly understands that small business is the largest employer, the biggest taxpayer and the most important part of the economy and his vote today makes a real difference.” “Tax policies should incentivize innovation and business development, not create additional risks for entrepreneurs and business owners. Americans need certainty when planning their expenses and should not have to worry each December if their businesses and investments will be put at risk,” added Hurd. “By making these tax cuts permanent, this legislation delivers predictability, clarity, and certainty for individuals, families and job creators.” The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act passed with a final vote of 318-109 and has been sent to the Senate. ###
12.16.2015	Washington, DC— Bipartisan legislation that strengthens tracking capabilities for jihadist travelers seeking safe havens beyond Iraq and Syria was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Tracking Foreign Fighters in Terrorist Safe Havens Act was introduced by House members of the Foreign Fighter Task Force as a result of key findings which can be found in their September 2015 Final Report on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. “ISIS has explicitly encouraged fighters who cannot make it to Iraq and Syria to join their struggle in other locations,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a member of the Foreign Fighter Task Force and driving force for Congressional leadership in the fight against ISIS. “Tracking foreign fighters who travel to Iraq and Syria alone is not enough to mitigate the threat they pose to our national security. These terrorist safe havens throughout the Middle East, Asia, and Africa can be used for bad guys planning attacks against the U.S. and migration trends can change on a dime. This legislation proactively supports our intelligence community’s efforts to stop terrorists in their tracks.” The task force report expresses that in addition to Syria and Iraq, ISIS operatives are urging followers to travel to safe havens in 19 countries throughout the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. In order to keep diplomatic, intelligence, law enforcement, and policy resources ahead of evolving foreign fighter flows, the bill requires the intelligence community to provide Congress with regular updates on extremist migration and terrorist sanctuaries outside of Iraq and Syria. The Tracking Foreign Fighters in Terrorist Safe Havens Act passed in the House with a final vote of 423-0 and has been sent to the Senate. ###
12.16.2015	Washington, DC – Nearly $948M for Federal Courthouse Construction was placed in the FY16 omnibus bill, including funds for the District Court for the Western District of Texas in San Antonio. This bipartisan effort comes on the heels of legislation introduced by the San Antonio delegation to provide emergency funding back in September and ongoing efforts by Rep. Hurd and others to engage key stakeholders on an issue of critical importance to San Antonio. “A new federal courthouse is long overdue. The current building is a security liability, putting at risk the employees and citizens who work and visit there,” says Hurd. Almost 50 years old, the John H. Wood Jr. U.S. Courthouse building was built to host the 1968 World’s Fair and is poorly suited for its current use. “This is an issue that we have worked across the aisle on, with a great deal of help from Senator John Cornyn, Rep. Henry Cuellar (R-TX), and Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Chairman of the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee. This accomplishment is a real win for the people of San Antonio and has significant impacts on the city’s immediate future including security, economic development, and tourism. I’m glad I was able to help drive a big-picture initiative for my hometown,” Hurd concluded. ###
12.11.2015	Washington, DC – The National Guard announced plans to activate new cyber units, known as Cyber Protection Teams, one of which will be based in San Antonio, Texas. In July, U.S. Representative Will Hurd was joined by San Antonio Congressmen Joaquin Castro, Henry Cuellar and Lamar Smith in sending a letter to General Frank Grass, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, advocating for the consideration of San Antonio when choosing cities for these new units to be based in. “San Antonio is known as both Military City, USA, as well as Cyber City, USA, so there is no question that the National Guard has chosen the right city at the right time,” said Hurd, a former undercover CIA officer who handled cyber offensive operations while serving overseas. “When you consider the presence of the 24th and 25th Air Force, NSA-Texas, and the second-to-none cyber programs at the University of Texas at San Antonio, it’s clear that we have the resources and professional workforce necessary to support these kinds of operations.” "Protecting Texas and the United States in the cyber domain is a complex and multifaceted journey," said Maj. Gen. John F Nichols, the Adjutant General for Texas. "We are excited to be given such a robust role in protecting the state and nation's critical cyber infrastructure." "We are honored the nation has recognized Texas as a center of robust knowledge and understanding in revolutionary technology," said Brig. Gen. Dawn Ferrell, Deputy Adjutant General-Air, Texas Military Department. “If you want to be on the cutting-edge of cyber, come to San Antonio." Rep. Hurd has advocated for this decision since coming into office in January, meeting with stakeholders and decision makers to present a strong case for San Antonio’s readiness and capabilities. “The cyber threats our nation faces are real and it makes me enormously proud to see my hometown at the forefront of this ongoing battle,” Hurd concluded. ### SADEL CPT Support Letter.pdf
12.10.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today, The State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2015 passed the House of Representatives unanimously with bipartisan support, marking U.S. Representative Will Hurd’s third bill to pass the House during his first year as the representative for the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. Hurd, a former CIA officer and cybersecurity expert, offered the bill to help state and local governments protect their data and information systems in the wake of several high profile cyber-attacks earlier this year. “State and local information systems host a wide range of sensitive personally identifiable information and critical infrastructure data, making them especially attractive for cyber-attacks. Local governments often do not have access to the technical capabilities and training required to address highly exploitable cybersecurity vulnerabilities,” said Hurd. “My bill will allow state and local governments, upon request, access to the assistance, training, and tools that are required to secure our nation’s information systems and protect our constituent’s information at every level of government.” The bill directs the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to coordinate with State and Local governments, voluntarily and upon request, on securing their information systems. Additionally, H.R. 3869 authorizes DHS to provide technical training for state and local cybersecurity analysts, inform state and locals on current cybersecurity guidelines at the federal level, and administer technical training for state and local cybersecurity analysts. DHS will be required to seek feedback from state and local governments following the bill’s enactment and report this information back to the House of Representatives and Senate. "San Antonio is quickly emerging as a nationally-recognized hub for cybersecurity innovation and growth. From the Department of Defense missions and security companies that call our city home, to everyday online commerce, the use of the internet has become a necessary tool for millions of Americans," said San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor. "I am very supportive of Congressman Hurd's State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2015, which helps us better secure our information systems with a more coordinated effort between local and state governments." The measure now moves to the Senate where it awaits further action. ###
12.10.2015	Washington, DC—The Texas Military Preparedness Commission (TMPC) announced today approval of a $4+ million grant to Val Verde County and the City of Del Rio for the construction of a Defense Control Center at Laughlin Air Force Base (AFB). The grant will be funded through the Defense Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant Program (DEAAG) and will allow the base to replace its outdated main entrance which suffers from numerous security and logistical challenges. Val Verde County and the City of Del Rio have already identified a lead architect and engineer, and have developed construction plans in anticipation of this grant being approved. “This grant is crucial in order for Laughlin to uphold the highest level of security and protection for the over 4,000 military personnel on the base, and I was proud to recommend the project for consideration,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas where Laughlin AFB is located. “This award not only strengthens Laughlin and the community, it ensures that future generations of student pilots and base personnel are provided the security they need to continue training those who serve in the best Air Force anywhere on the globe." "Since my first day here, I've been awed by how this community steps up to protect its military," said Col. Thomas Shank, 47th Flying Training Wing commander at Laughlin. "This is a town that gets it when it comes to protecting its military and this is just one more example. There are a lot of people to thank from the city, local, state and federal levels who this project would never have gotten launched without.” “It’s vital that we do whatever is necessary to protect the future of Laughlin,” said Val Verde County Judge Efrain Valdez. “Laughlin is the engine that drives the Southwest Texas economy and is the foundation of Del Rio’s economy.” Del Rio Chamber of Commerce Legislative co-chair and Military Affair representative, Blanca Larson, who spearheaded the six-month grant writing process said “there are so many individuals that have come together for the county, city, and Laughlin that this type of group effort is what is needed to help ensure our future economic stability.” “It’s a new day where many communities are doing whatever they can to protect the future of their military installations,” said Shannalea Taylor, Legislative Chair and former Del Rio Chamber of Commerce president who was also vital to this project. “If we don’t take steps like this, other installations will be protected and our community will be left high and dry.” Laughlin Air Force Base is home to the 47th Flying Training Wing and plays a critical role in Air Education and Training Command’s production of Air Force pilots. Hurd sent a letter of support to the TMPC and has been impressed by the high level of engagement from elected leaders and the community that made this request a success. ### 10.06.15 Hurd TMPC Letter.pdf
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, the House voted to strengthen the security of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), helping to ensure that individuals who enter the U.S. through the program do not pose a threat to national security. Under the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, to be eligible for VWP status individuals must possess a machine-readable and tamper resistant passport, and have not traveled to Iraq, Syria, Iran, or any other known state sponsor of terrorism since March 1, 2011. Such individuals are not barred from traveling to the U.S, but must obtain a visa to do so. Additionally, the bill strengthens global security and coordination against terrorists by requiring that all 38 VWP countries screen travelers against INTERPOL databases in order to maintain VWP designation. “During a time that the U.S. and our allies have been the target of multiple terrorist attacks, strengthening national security and protecting American lives is my absolute highest priority,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, who sits on the House Committee of Homeland Security. “We must do a better job at sharing intelligence information to prevent travelers who are a threat to our homeland from slipping through the cracks. This bill ads an extra level of screening to travelers before they enter our borders, and incentivizes our European partners to do so as well.” Earlier this year, Rep. Hurd participated in a Foreign Fighter Task Force within the House Committee of Homeland Security to examine the real threats and vulnerabilities of international terrorist travel. The Committee released a report with 32 key findings, one of which revealed that there is no comprehensive global database of foreign fighter names and that the U.S. and our partners are not effectively checking travelers against each other’s databases. The Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act improves upon this patchwork system for swapping extremist identities by forcing partners to share counterterrorism information. The bill passed in the House by a final vote of 407-19. ### Hurd speaks at GOP press conference on the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act: “If you get the right information to the right people, you keep terrorists on the run and off our shores.”
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX), Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) and Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) praised the passage by the U.S. House and Senate of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, a five-year federal highway bill including language to give states more flexibility to invest in border infrastructure. The legislation generates an average of $3.67 billion per year for the next five years for Texas transportation projects. Introduced in the House by Hurd, Cuellar and McCaul earlier this year as stand-alone bill H.R. 3181, this language will create a Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) Reserve Fund, giving border states more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds. States like Texas can reserve up to 5 percent of statewide Surface Transportation Funds for qualified border infrastructure purposes, providing funding certainty and allowing stakeholders and border communities to advocate for border infrastructure. “As the top exporting state in the nation, Texas already transports more than $100 billion in goods to Mexico each year, supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Giving states like ours more flexibility to invest in infrastructure along the border has the potential to facilitate more international trade, boosting jobs and economic growth.” “International trade and commerce is not just important for many of the towns in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas – it’s a vital part of the economy,” said Hurd, who has more than 820 miles of international border in his district and was a member of the conference committee for the highway bill. “Providing states the flexibility to invest in the infrastructure that makes this type of commerce possible not only benefits the families who live along the border, but ultimately boosts trade for the entire state of Texas and the nation.” “The CBI Fund will undoubtedly benefit border communities across my district and the country by dedicating more money to ports of entry,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My hometown of Laredo is host to the nation’s largest inland port, which services over 14,000 daily commercial truck crossings and 1,500 daily rail crossings. The large volumes of traffic passing over the border across South Texas place a tremendous strain on our border transportation infrastructure making it imperative that the infrastructure around our nation’s ports and trade centers remain in peak condition to ensure our economy keeps moving forward. I would like to thank my colleagues who supported this provision and worked to get it included in the bill.” “Wait times at five of the busiest ports of entry along our southern border result in an economic loss of $166 million per minute,” added Congressman O’Rourke. “ The passage of this bipartisan bill means states like Texas can direct funds to repair and upgrade infrastructure at our ports of entry, resulting in reduced wait times and increased economic and job growth for communities like El Paso." “Our homeland security deserves our utmost attention, and that starts at our border,” said McCaul, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. “By ensuring Texas has the flexibility to invest these funds in border infrastructure, our nation will be safer while paving the way to better American access to global economic opportunities. The inclusion of this provision will also support critical jobs in my district, which exported $11.5 billion worth of goods and services in 2013. By providing this certainty in funding for infrastructure improvements, we will be able to address the problems currently being encountered at the border." The provision is receiving support from stakeholders on the border, who understand the importance of having secure and stable routes across the border. “Today’s passage of a long-term transportation bill proves that Congress can still accomplish big things and in a bipartisan way,” said Jesse Hereford, chairman of the Border Trade Alliance. “This legislation is critically important for our country’s border regions, which are struggling to ensure that their infrastructure keeps pace with today’s trade volumes. The Border Trade Alliance thanks Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Cuellar, Rep. Hurd, Rep. McCaul and Rep. O’Rourke for working together to give border states like Texas the flexibility to direct transportation funding to the border region to help alleviate bottlenecks and congestion and promote the safe and efficient movement of freight.” "Safe and efficient cross border trade is central for the economic growth of border communities such as El Paso. We see every day how much people and companies rely on our transportation infrastructure to transport goods and travel for work,” said Rolando Pablos, chief executive officer of the Borderplex Alliance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving economic prosperity in the El Paso, Ciudad Juarez and Southern New Mexico region. “We know current border crossings are not optimal and result in long wait times and the delayed movement of goods for businesses. We applaud Congress for including funding for the coordinated border infrastructure program in the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which will allow for improvements to our border transportation infrastructure and bolster economic activity and opportunities in this region.” ### Congresista Hurd, Miembros de Texas Anuncian La Aprobación de la Financiación para la Infraestructura Fronteriza en el Proyecto de Ley de Transporte a Largo Plazo ‘El comercio internacional es una parte vital de la economía,’ dijo Hurd. Washington, DC – Hoy el Senador John Cornyn (R-TX), y los Congresistas Will Hurd (R-TX-23), Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16) y Michael McCaul (R-TX-10), ofrecieron elogios a la aprobación por la Cámara y el Senado del Acta Reparación del Transporte por Superficie de E.E.U.U. (FAST por sus siglas en ingles), un proyecto de ley federal que incluye contexto que dará a los estados más flexibilidad para invertir en la infraestructura fronteriza. La legislación genera un mediado de $3.67 mil millones anuales por los próximos cinco años para proyectos de transportación en Texas. Introducido en la Cámara por Hurd, Cuellar y McCaul al principio de este año como un proyecto de ley solidario H.R. 3181, este texto creara una fundación de reserva para coordinar infraestructura fronteriza, dando a los estados fronterizos más flexibilidad con los fondos federales de transportación. Estados como Texas pueden reservar hasta 5 por ciento de los Fondos de Transportación por Superficie estatales para propósitos calificados de infraestructura fronteriza, proveyendo seguridad en financiamiento y permitiendo que los partidos interesados y comunidades fronterizas aboguen para infraestructura fronteriza. “Como uno de los estados más activos en exportación de la nación, Texas transporta más de $100 mil millones en bienes a México anualmente, apoyando cienes de miles de trabajos,” dijo el Senador Cornyn. “Otorgándole a estados como el nuestro mayor flexibilidad para invertir en infraestructura a lo largo de la frontera, tiene el potencial para facilitar más comercio internacional, fomentando más trabajos y crecimiento económico.” “El Comercio internacional no es importante solo para muchos de los locales en el Distrito Congresional 23 de Texas – es una parte vital de la economía,” explico Hurd, quien tiene más de 820 millas de la frontera internacional y fue un miembro del comité para el proyecto de ley de transporte. “Ofreciendo a los estados la flexibilidad para invertir en la infraestructura hace este tipo de comercio una posibilidad que no solo beneficia a las familias que viven cerca de la frontera, pero ultimadamente impulsa el comercio para el estado entero y la nación.” “El Fondo CBI, sin duda, beneficiará a las comunidades fronterizas a través de mi distrito y la nación al dedicar más fundos hacia los puertos de entrada", dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Mi ciudad natal de Laredo, TX cuenta con el puerto terrestre más grande de la nación, que diariamente servicia a más de 14.000 cruces de camiones comerciales y 1.500 cruces de ferrocarril. El alto volumen de tráfico que pasa sobre la frontera a través del sur de Texas ponen una enorme presión sobre nuestra infraestructura de transporte, por lo que es indispensable que la infraestructura en los puertos de nuestra nación y centros comerciales permanecen en condiciones óptimas para asegurar que nuestra economía siga avanzando. Quiero agradecer a mis colegas que apoyaron esta provisión y trabajaron para incluirlo en el proyecto de ley.” “El tiempo de espera de nuestros cinco puertos más activos en la frontera sur del estado resultan en una pérdida económica de $166 millones por minuto,” agregó el Congresista O’Rourke. “La aprobación de este proyecto de ley bipartidista significa que estados como Texas pueden directamente financiar la reparación y modernización de la infraestructura de nuestros puertos de entrada, resultando en una reducción del tiempo de espera, beneficiando el crecimiento económico y laboral en comunidades como El Paso.” “Nuestra seguridad nacional merece nuestra mayor atención, y eso comienza con nuestra frontera,” dijo McCaul, Presidente del Comité de la Seguridad Nacional. “Al asegurar que Texas tenga la flexibilidad para invertir fondos en la infraestructura fronteriza, nuestra nación estará más segura y simultáneamente se promoverá el acceso Americano a oportunidades económicas globales. La inclusión de esta provisión también apoyara a trabajos críticos en mi distrito, quien exportó $11.5 billón de buenos y servicios en el 2013. Al proveer esta certidumbre en fondos para mejoramiento infraestructural, podemos tratar con los problemas que actualmente se enfrentan en la frontera.” Esta provisión está recibiendo apoyos de partes interesadas en la frontera, quienes entienden la importancia de tener rutas seguras y estables a lo largo de la frontera. “La aprobación del proyecto de ley de transporte prueba que el Congreso todavía puede realizar grandes logros de una forma bipartidista,” dijo Jesse Hereford, Presidente de la Alianza del Comercio Fronterizo. “Esta legislación es de importancia crítica para las regiones fronterizas de nuestro país, quienes están luchando para asegurar que su infraestructura pueda mantener el ritmo del volumen de los comercios de hoy. La Alianza del Comercio Fronterizo agradece al Senador Cornyn, al Congresista Cuellar, Congresista Hurd, Congresista McCaul, y el Congresista O’Rourke por trabajar juntos para ofrecer a los estados como Texas la flexibilidad de dirigir el financiamiento de transporte a la región fronteriza para aliviar el tráfico y congestión, y promover el movimiento seguro y eficaz de mercancías.” “Un comercio fronterizo seguro y eficiente es el centro para el crecimiento económico de comunidades fronterizas como El Paso. Cada día vemos como mucha gente y compañías dependen en nuestra infraestructura para transportar bienes y trasladarse a sus trabajos,” dijo Rolando Pablos, Jefe Ejecutivo de la Alianza de Borderplex, una organización sin fines de lucro dedicada a mejorar la prosperidad económica en El Paso, Ciudad Juarez, y la región del sur de Nuevo México. “Sabemos que los cruces fronterizos actuales no son óptimos lo cual resulta en un largo tiempo de espera y un retraso en el transporte de bienes para negocios. Encomendamos al Congreso incluir fondos para un programa de infraestructura fronteriza coordinada en el Acta FAST, que permite adelantos en nuestra infraestructura de transporte fronteriza y refuerza las actividades económicas y oportunidades en esta región.
12.02.2015	Washington, DC—Today, the House passed an energy bill that updates and modernizes outdated policies, unleashing our nation’s energy sector and strengthening national security. H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act, has four objectives: to modernize our energy infrastructure to meet today’s challenges, to protect the electricity system from potential disruptions, to strengthen diplomatic alliances through energy security, and to provide regulatory relief and government accountability. One of the most important highlights for the Texas economy is the inclusion of a lift on the crude oil export ban. “The 23rd Congressional District of Texas is ground-zero for the energy resurgence that has fueled our nation and created countless jobs—and the flourishing Texas economy is a prime example of the impact that developing natural resources can have on a state,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd who championed a bipartisan initiative in August that led to the approval of an oil swap agreement between the U.S. and Mexico. “It’s time to unleash the abundant energy resources that our nation possesses.” “Additionally, I believe that energy security is a matter of national security. The more energy we are producing as a nation, the less dependent we are on others who may not have our best interests in mind,” said Rep. Hurd. The North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act was passed by the House by a final vote of 249-174, and now awaits Senate action. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC— Congress passed the Every Student Succeeds Act, legislation that replaces No Child Left Behind and reduces federally-mandated education policies, while restoring education decisions back to state and local communities. U.S. Representative Will Hurd, a cybersecurity expert and Chair of the House Subcommittee on Information Technology, authored an amendment to the original House bill that protects the privacy rights of students. “I have always believed that educational control should reside in the hands of parents. One-size-fits-all federal programs are not beneficial to students, and they limit the ability to effectively educate them for the challenges of the 21st century. Equally important, we cannot ignore the string of recent high-profile data breaches that have compromised millions of Americans. Congress must make it a priority to protect the private information of our students,” said Hurd, noting that educational databases contain massive amounts of personally identifiable and private information, including test scores, contact information, income levels, and in some cases, even social security numbers. The Every Student Succeeds Act applies a number of reforms that support a well-rounded education for Texas’ diverse student population and encourage schools to form long-term planning strategies for excellence in education/school performance. Texas will now be able to establish its own statewide accountability system, replacing federally-mandated standardized testing. This bill also empowers schools to adopt their own methods to improve teacher quality, ensuring parents have access to information they need to hold schools and teachers accountable. Additionally, the bill increases flexibility for funding, enabling school districts to address student and program needs that best align with local priorities. The North East Independent School District in San Antonio responded with the following statement: “We are supportive of the efforts made to provide for more state and local control in education by the Every Student Succeeds Act, and that it reduces the current reliance on state waivers and standardized testing.” Southwest ISD Superintendent Dr. Lloyd Verstuyft, stated, “In addition to providing better flexibility and enhancing local authority of funding protocol, this legislation enables us to enhance the quality of our teachers, something that will greatly benefit each of our students.” "The current version of the bill reauthorizing the ESEA makes significant strides toward returning control over educational decisions to states and local educational entities. We appreciate the work of a bipartisan group who moved to fix what was clearly outdated and inappropriate policy," added Dr. Brian Woods, Northside ISD Superintendent of Schools. The Every Student Succeeds Act passed the House with a final vote of 359-64. ### Papel Federal en Educación es Finalmente Reducido Legislación bicameral reemplaza ‘No Child Left Behind’ Washington, DC – El Congreso aprobó el acta Cada Estudiante Triunfa (Every Student Succeeds Act) reduciendo las pólizas de educación, federalmente impuestas, y al mismo tiempo restaurando los derechos para tomar decisiones sobre la educación al estado y comunidades locales. El Representante Estadounidense Will Hurd, un experto en seguridad cibernética y Jefe del Subcomité de Información Tecnológica, creo una modificación al proyecto de ley original que protege los derechos de privacidad de estudiantes. “Siempre he creído que el control de la educación de nuestros hijos le pertenece a los padres. Un programa federal con enfoque uniforme no beneficia a los estudiantes y limita la habilidad para educarlos efectivamente para los desafíos del siglo XXI. Igualmente importante, no podemos ignorar los eventos recientes de las violaciones de datos de alta polémica que han puesto en peligro a millones de ciudadanos. El Congreso tiene que darle prioridad a la protección de información privada de nuestros estudiantes,” dijo Hurd, citando que bases de datos educacionales contienen cantidades masivas de identificación personal e información privada, incluyendo calificaciones de exámenes, contactos, niveles de ingreso, y en algunos casos, hasta números de seguro social. El Acta Cada Estudiante Triunfa aplica un número de reformas que apoya una educación completa para la populación diversa de estudiantes Tejanos, y anima a las escuelas a formar planes e estrategias de largo plazo para la excelencia en el desempeño de la educación/escuela. Tejas ahora podrá establecer su propio sistema estatal de responsabilidad, reemplazando los exámenes estandarizados por mandato federal. Este acto también habilita a las escuelas para que adopten sus propios métodos para mejorar la calidad de maestros, asegurando que los padres tengan acceso a la información que necesitan para mantener a las escuelas y maestros responsables. Adicionalmente, esta acta incrementa la flexibilidad del financiamiento, habilitando a los distritos escolares a dirigirse a las necesidades estudiantiles y apoyando programas que se alinean a las prioridades locales. El Superintendente Dr. Lloyd Verstuyft, del Distrito Independiente Suroeste indico, “Además de proveer más flexibilidad y aumentar autoridad local del protocolo de financiación, esta legislación nos permite mejorar la calidad de nuestros maestros, algo que beneficiara enormemente a nuestros estudiantes.” “La versión actual del proyecto de ley reautorizando el ESEA marca pasos significativos hacia devolviendo el control de decisiones sobre la educación al estado y entidades de educación local. Apreciamos el trabajo del grupo bipartidista quien actúo para arreglar lo que claramente era póliza anticuada e inapropiada” agrego Dr. Babin Woods, Superintendente de las escuelas del Distrito Independiente del Norte. El Distrito Independiente Noreste de San Antonio respondió con el siguiente comunicado: Apoyamos los esfuerzos hechos para proveer más control local y estatal en la educación por el Acta Cada Estudiante Triunfa, y que reduce la dependencia actual en exenciones estatales y exámenes estándares. ###
12.01.2015	Washington, DC—Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd supported two resolutions that formally disapprove of new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations of power plants. The resolutions provide protection from additional EPA overreach that will drive energy prices up for consumers, causing significant harm to families and businesses across the country. Both resolutions passed the House and Senate and have been sent to the President’s desk, sending a strong message to the Administration to protect reliable energy sources that keep electricity prices low and provide jobs for thousands of Americans. In response, the South Texas Electric Cooperative (STEC) announced, “STEC welcomes Congressman Hurd’s support of the Congressional Review Act resolutions regarding the Clean Power Plan. STEC is in the process of legally challenging the Clean Power Plan along with the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) because it is both illegal and, according to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), will threaten the reliability and affordability of our grid. While we await word from the courts on the rule’s legal fate, we believe it sends an important message that a majority of both houses of Congress oppose the CPP, which is consistent with the fact that over half (27) of the states also oppose and are legally challenging the Clean Power Plan." “The government needs to stop limiting our energy capabilities and start maximizing our energy potential,” said Rep. Hurd. “America’s economic development and security are dependent on the production of domestic energy resources. Nobody hurts more from these harmful regulations than the hardworking people in my district.” Texas is one of 27 States that has filed legal challenges against the EPA’s Clean Power Plan rule. ###
11.25.2015	San Antonio, TX - Last month, U.S. Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas toured Professional Contract Services, Inc. (PCSI) and Goodwill Industries of San Antonio at their facilities at Camp Bullis in San Antonio. Both organizations are nonprofit, AbilityOne contractors whose mission is to hire and create job opportunities for people with disabilities and veterans. During his tour, employees from each organization demonstrated their daily functions and discussed the responsibilities for their AbilityOne contracts. The AbilityOne Program is a nationwide initiative that provides employment opportunities through Federal contracts for people who are blind or have significant disabilities. “This is an impressive organization that is making a true difference in the lives of their employees and our community,” said Hurd after thanking the employees for their hard work and dedication. “Persons with disabilities have a great deal to offer and I’m grateful for AbilityOne’s dedication and hard work in helping them meet their full potential.” Hurd’s visit commemorated National Disability Employment Awareness Month, celebrated each October. The AbilityOne Program honors U.S. Representatives who have championed the cause of AbilityOne through multiple actions to assist their constituents with disabilities and to show support for the program. According to PCSI, Hurd will soon be recognized as an AbilityOne Congressional Champion for his many efforts in his community and his support of the AbilityOne Program. ###
11.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) today introduced the State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2015, which will give state and local governments access to federal resources when it comes to securing their digital information systems. “State and local governments often do not have access to adequate personnel or technical cybersecurity resources,” said Hurd, who organized cyber offensive campaigns while working as an undercover officer in the CIA. “This is more than just about protecting the private information of individuals who work for local government agencies. Frankly, cyber breaches at any level can put our national security at risk.” Hurd’s bill directs the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to coordinate with state and local governments on securing their information systems on a voluntary basis. The NCCIC can assist in identifying system vulnerabilities and possible solutions. They can also provide technical, implementation and privacy training for cybersecurity analysts. In addition, the NCCIC will be required to seek feedback from state and local governments in order to report on the effectiveness of their efforts. "San Antonio is quickly emerging as a nationally-recognized hub for cybersecurity innovation and growth. From the Department of Defense missions and security companies that call our city home, to everyday online commerce, the use of the internet has become a necessary tool for millions of Americans," said San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor. "I am very supportive of Congressman Hurd's State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2015, which helps us better secure our information systems with a more coordinated effort between local and state governments." In a letter of support for the legislation, the National Association of State Chief Information Officers (NASCIO) said, “Cybersecurity remains one of the biggest priorities for our nation’s CIOs and we are pleased that Rep. Hurd has introduced H.R. 3869, which we believe will assist CIOs in bolstering their state’s cybersecurity posture. The letter continued on by encouraging the House Homeland Security Committee to report the bill favorably out of committee. “As I’ve said before, cybersecurity isn’t just a buzzword. It’s a serious issue that can potentially impact every single American. This is common-sense legislation that strengthens our nation’s cyber posture at every level of government," Hurd concluded. ### NASCIO-State-Local-Cyber-HR3869.pdf
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted against a bill to raise the debt ceiling by suspending the nation’s borrowing limit through March 2017. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 also has negative implications for farmers, ranchers, hospitals, and oil producers in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “Only in Washington would putting off paying our debt and using budget gimmicks be considered responsible budgeting,” said Hurd. “Giving the President a blank check is completely reckless and outrageous. Washington must start spending within its means while paying down its debts, just as all American families must live.” This bill also attempts to balance the budget on the backs of critical components of our communities and the Texas economy at large. Under the proposed budget, the Federal Crop Insurance Act would require a new Standard Reinsurance Agreement to be renegotiated by the end of 2016 and every five years. “While a potential solution for this has been floated for the upcoming omnibus bill, I still remain concerned that these cuts were even on the table,” Hurd continued. “Crop insurance is critical to the vast majority of farmers. Without affordable risk management, a drought like that we experienced in 2011 could have spelled the end for many farms and ranches across Texas. When farmers hurt, the rural economy hurts, too. We are disappointed in the proposed cuts to the crop insurance program—on top of the billions of dollars cut from agriculture’s critical safety net in the last farm bill," stated Texas Farm Bureau President Russell Boening, a farmer and rancher from Poth, Texas. The budget would also be paid for by drawing down on our Strategic Petroleum Reserve, reducing energy security and using this resource for reasons unrelated to energy. “I represent portions of the Permian Basin and the Eagle Ford Shale, as well as over 9,000 farms and ranches that employ thousands of hard-working people. I will continue to look for ways to reduce government spending without initiating harmful policies for farmers, ranchers, and oil producers in my district,” said Hurd. Furthermore, offsets were included that directly impact payments to physician outpatient services by limiting the Medicare reimbursement rate for future offsite clinics. “Texas hospitals understand the importance of securing a budget deal so the government does not default on its payment obligations. However, cutting Medicare payments and therefore threatening beneficiaries’ access to care is not an appropriate revenue source. Hospitals are different from community-based physician offices in the types of patients they serve, the contingencies for which they have to prepare and the oversight and compliance requirements they have to meet. These differences merit a higher level of reimbursement,” stated Texas Hospital Association President and CEO, Ted Shaw. ###
10.23.2015	CLICK HERE TO REGISTER San Antonio, TX—U.S. Representative Will Hurd announced today that he has partnered with representatives from Google to host free tech workshops for Texas entrepreneurs and small business owners in San Antonio on November 9th. Hurd’s workshops are part of Google’s Let’s Put Our Cities on the Map program aimed at providing businesses across the U.S. with an online presence. Google experts will help small business owners create their own websites and Google listings for free. Participating businesses will receive a customized domain name, free web hosting for one year, a local business listing on Google Maps, free tools, training and resources. Google experts will be on hand to train the business owners on how to reach more customers and get discovered online. “Over 2.3 million small businesses in Texas employ about half of the state’s private workforce and make up over 98% of all employers in the state. These businesses are the lifeblood of our economy, and in an increasingly digital world it is vital that entrepreneurs and small businesses have the resources they need to thrive,” said Hurd. “There is no denying that the internet has dramatically changed the way that consumers access information and engage in commerce. These workshops offer an opportunity for our local businesses to use technology to access a broader audience and be more competitive in today’s economy.” “The perception that getting online is complex, costly and time-consuming has prevented many Texas small businesses from taking the first step,” said Emily Harris, Marketing Manager for Google’s Let’s Put Our Cities on the Map program. “This program makes it fast, easy and free for businesses to get online." Small businesses need to be online because that’s where their customers are. In fact, four out of five people use search engines to find local information, like business hours and addresses. Research shows that businesses with complete listings are twice as likely to be considered reputable by customers. Yet, only 37% of businesses have claimed a local business listing on a search engine. That’s a lot of missed opportunities for small businesses. Let’s Put Our Cities on the Map aims to provide businesses across the U.S. with practical solutions to access new customers online. By making the process of getting online fast, easy, and free, more customers will be able to find businesses in their area when they turn to the web for information. Small businesses interested in attending the November 9th workshops can learn more and register HERE. DATE/TIME: Monday, November 9, 2015 9:00 AM – 12:00 PM LOCATION: Cafe Commerce 600 Soledad Street San Antonio, TX 78205 ###
10.22.2015	Washington, DC—This week, Congress formally sent the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to the President’s desk for his signature. The President responded by making good on his multiple threats to veto the funding bill, putting the security of our nation and the livelihoods of our military members in jeopardy. The NDAA has only been vetoed four times since it was first passed in 1961, and today’s veto represents the President’s misguided attempt at leverage for his larger domestic political agenda. U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) objected to the President’s use of our nation’s men and women in uniform as bargaining chips. “With security threats increasing overseas, it is not only irresponsible, but just plain shameful for President Obama to abandon our military in an effort to increase domestic spending levels,” said Hurd. “I have seen first-hand the sacrifices our service members and their families make to keep us safe. I am disappointed that our military members cannot trust Washington to make the same commitment to them as they have made overseas.” The safety and security we feel at home is supported by the Authorization for the Department of Defense. The NDAA not only provides resources for operations, but it authorizes important benefits for members of the armed forces and their families. Highlights include optional retirement plans for those with fewer than 12 years of service, a pay raise of 1.3%, a new policy allowing personal firearms on base, improved access to child care on military installations, and preservation of the housing allowance for dual military couples. “Texas is home to over 120,000 active duty military members and over 1.6 million proud Veterans. America made promises to these men and women who have sacrificed for the betterment of our nation,” said Hurd. “I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to override this veto and not allow the President to play political games with the benefits that our military have earned.” ###
10.21.2015	Washington, DC—Today, Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-02) and Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Future Caucus, announced the introduction of a bipartisan resolution to recognize #GivingTuesday, a global day of charitable giving and volunteerism. #GivingTuesday, the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving, begins the holiday season in the spirit of service, following widely-recognized shopping events like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. “Every single day, each of us has the opportunity to find a way to give back to our communities, to help those in need, and to have a positive impact on those around us. #GivingTuesday highlights this opportunity and the special importance of service and giving back," said Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard. "Too often, national politics and media focus on the issues that divide us, rather than those that unite us. Service, volunteerism, and giving back are principles that unite us, and allow us to transcend the many labels that can often divide us." "We live in the most generous nation in the world, ready to give a helping hand to our next-door neighbors or people we have never met on the other side of the world,” said Congressman Will Hurd. “While global poverty continues to decline, there is always more that Americans can do to help those in need in our communities, both local and international. Giving Tuesday reminds those with much to remember those with little." Giving Tuesday was launched by the 92nd Street Y and the United Nations Foundation in 2012, and has since become a worldwide movement, harnessing the power of social media and the generosity of people around the world to bring about real change. In it’s first year, Giving Tuesday brought together more than 2,500 organizations in all 50 States, and it has continued to gain momentum every year since, with more than 35,000 partners in the United States and around the world. Full text of the resolution can be found HERE. ###
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) released the following statement regarding Sixth Court of Appeals’ ruling putting a nationwide stay on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “This is an important victory against the overreaching Obama Administration and great news for the agriculture industry and small businesses. Farming and ranching families in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas know that there’s no legitimate reason for the EPA to regulate dry ditches on their land. The WOTUS rule is arbitrary, vague and confusing, not to mention a dangerous power grab that would give the federal government unprecedented control over private property. The entire rule needs to be eliminated.” ###
10.09.2015	Washington, DC—Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted to support a bipartisan effort to lift the national ban on crude oil exports that has been in place for 40 years. The bill passed the House with a final vote of 261 – 159 and has been sent to the Senate. “Lifting the oil export ban is long overdue. It would generate billions for our nation’s economy, enhance our overall level of energy security, and provide jobs for thousands of Texans. Not to mention, U.S. oil exports would strengthen our national security, weakening countries like Russia and Iran in the process,” said Rep. Hurd. “It’s outrageous that our President supports giving Iran the right to sell energy on the world market, but won’t allow U.S. companies the same ability.” Hurd spearheaded a bipartisan letter to the Administration earlier this year to encourage the consideration of a partial lift of this ban and approve an oil swap with the Mexican state-run oil company, PEMEX. Hurd and his Texas Democratic colleague Congressman Henry Cuellar were notified by the Commerce Department this fall that the swap was being approved. “That decision will benefit the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, the state of Texas, and the entire nation. I hope the President realizes how beneficial it would be to our National Energy Security to rid our country of the archaic ban completely,” Hurd continued in reference to the White House’s threat to veto the legislation. In addition to voting for the underlying bill, Rep. Hurd also supported amendments that strengthen sanctions and restrict the exportation of petrochemical products to Iran. He also supported his Texas colleague Rep. Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX) amendment to encourage greater outreach from the Department of Energy to Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic Serving Institutions on partnerships that promote education in concentrations related to energy production. ###
10.01.2015	Washington, DC— Final legislation providing authorization for the Department of Defense and our men and women in uniform has been sent to the President’s desk after a bipartisan vote in Congress. The bill provides critical guidance for our service members around the world, including millions of dollars for projects at Joint Base San Antonio. Highlights of the funding bill include: An increase in pay for our men and women in uniform Prohibition on cuts to housing allowances for married couples Ability for service members to carry weapons on post, if agreed to by base commanders Incentives for local school districts to partner with bases, such as Laughlin, to expand education opportunities particularly in STEM Retirement reform that will allow the nearly 83% of service members who are currently ineligible for retirement to take something with them after they serve Investments in critical technologies that will allow our military to remain dominant while eliminating wasteful programs and spending The President has threatened to veto the increased defense funding because of a disagreement over funding for his domestic priorities. “The President’s threat creates uncertainty, undermines our commitments to our partners, and directly jeopardizes the livelihoods of our nation’s military members,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “As security threats continue to increase around the globe, now is not the time to reduce America’s ability to respond. I hope the President will place our nation’s security and the well-being of our service members above partisan politics and sign this bill into law." ### Proyecto de Ley para la Autorización de Defensa Se Aprueba en la Cámara y en el Senado Amenaza del Veto Presidencial Pone en Peligro a la Seguridad Nacional Washington, D.C. – La legislación final que autoriza al Departamento de Defensa y a los miembros militares fue enviada al escritorio del Presidente después de un voto bipartidista en el Congreso. El proyecto de ley proporciona una guía fundamental para nuestros miembros del ejército alrededor del mundo, incluyendo millones de dólares para proyectos en la Base Conjunta de San Antonio. Las finanzas bajo el proyecto de ley incluyen: Un aumento de sueldo para los miembros militares Prohibición de recortes a los subsidios de viviendas para las parejas casadas Capacidad para que los miembros del ejército puedan portar armas en sus puestos militares, solo si aprobado por los comandantes de la base Incentivos para que los distritos escolares locales se asociasen con bases, como Laughlin, para ampliar la oportunidades de educación, particularmente en las áreas de STEM. Reforma de retiro que les daría a casi 83% de los miembros militares que actualmente no califican para el retiro a llevar algo con ellos después de su servicio Inversiones en tecnologías críticas que permitieran que nuestras fuerzas armadas permanezcan dominante y a la vez eliminar gastos y programas derrochadoras El Presidente ha amenazado con vetar el incremento de la financiación de defensa debido a un desacuerdo sobre la financiación para sus prioridades domésticas. "La amenaza del Presidente crea incertidumbre, perjudica nuestros compromisos con nuestros aliados y directamente pone en peligro la subsistencia de los miembros militares de la nación,” dijo el representante estadounidense Will Hurd. "Mientras hay un aumento de amenazas a la seguridad alrededor del mundo, ahora no es el momento de reducir la capacidad de los Estados Unidos para responder. Espero que el Presidente ponga la seguridad de nuestra nación y el bienestar de nuestros miembros militares por encima de la política partidista y firme este proyecto de ley en ley".
09.28.2015	Washington, DC—The Foreign Fighter Task Force commissioned by House Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, has released a final report on combating terrorists and foreign fighter travel. The Congressional task force was established in March 2015 to develop solutions that prevent foreign fighter travel from ISIS controlled nations to the United States and our European allies. “As a former undercover CIA officer, I am fully aware of the threat that radicalized extremists pose to the Homeland,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, member of the Foreign Fighter Task Force. “We need to do a much better job apprehending extremists when they are on the move. We can do this by working more efficiently with our foreign partners, sharing intelligence, and developing awareness initiatives that target vulnerable communities.” “I commend Congressman Hurd for his work on this serious homeland security issue, a grave and growing threat from foreign fighters,” said Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX). “Sadly, global efforts have failed to stop the flow of these aspiring jihadists into Syria, and we have already seen ‘returnees’ from the conflict zone come home to America and Europe and plot acts of terror. Even more, those still on the battlefield are radicalizing their peers online and inciting them to launch homegrown attacks. In light of the Task Force’s findings, I urge American leaders to develop a strategy to combat terrorist and foreign fighter travel and eliminate the ISIS threat." The review was one of the most extensive public examinations of U.S. government efforts to counter terrorist travel since the 9/11 Commission’s final report. The Task Force’s 32 Key Findings can be found below. ### FinalReport_HomelandSecurityCommitteeTaskForce.pdf Hurd Advierte Sobre Puntos Vulnerables en el Extranjero El Reporte del Grupo Congresional de Combatientes Extranjeros es Publicado El Grupo Congresional de Combatientes Extranjeros comisionado por el Presidente del Comité de la Seguridad Nacional de la Cámara de Representantes, Michael McCaul, publico el reporte final sobre la lucha contra viajes de terroristas y combatientes extranjeros. El grupo especial del Congreso fue establecido en Marzo del 2015 para crear soluciones que evitan viajes de combatientes extranjeros de naciones controladas por ISIS hacia los Estados Unidos y nuestros aliados Europeos. “Como ex agente clandestino del CIA, estoy bien enterado de la amenaza que los combatientes extremistas posen a nuestra tierra patria,” dijo el Congresista Will Hurd, miembro del Grupo Congresional de Combatientes Extranjeros. “Necesitamos hacer un mejor trabajo para detener a estos extremistas cuando vienen en camino. Podemos lograr esto si trabajamos mas eficientemente con nuestras aliados, compartiendo inteligencia, y estando consientes que se dirigen a las comunidades mas vulnerables.” “Yo encomiendo al Congresista Hurd por su trabajo en este asunto de Seguridad Nacional, una grave amenaza creciente de los combatientes extranjeros,” dijo Michael McCaul (R-TX). “Desafortunadamente, esfuerzos globales han fallado en detener el flujo de estos jihadistas aspirantes hacia Siria, y ya hemos visto los que regresan de la zona de conflicto a Los Estados Unidos y a Europa con planes terroristas. Pero aun más, esos todavía en el campo de batalla están radicalizando sus colegas a través del internet e incitándoles a que lancen ataques en sus propios paises. En luz de los resultados provistos por el grupo especial, insto a los líderes americanos a desarrollar una estrategia para combatir a los los viajes de terroristas y combatientes extranjeros para eliminar la amenaza que presenta ISIS.” Este informe fue unas de las examinaciones públicas más extensos que demuestran el esfuerzo del gobierno para combatir las prácticas de viajes de terroristas desde el reporte final del Comisionado del 9/11. Los 32 descubrimientos principales se pueden encontrar aquí.
09.28.2015	Washington, DC—U.S. Representative Will Hurd co-sponsored the Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 2015, which passed the House today with a bipartisan vote. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to enhance its efforts to hire veterans as U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers and is a significant win for veterans in South and West Texas. “There are over 800 miles of Texas-Mexico border in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas that need protection. By incentivizing these jobs for veterans, we are offering more opportunities for Texas veterans to continue their service right here at home,” said Representative Hurd. Texas is home to over 120,000 active duty military members and over 1.6 million veterans. The 23rd Congressional District of Texas boasts several military installations such as Laughlin Air Force Base and the National Guard’s Camp Bullis. It also has major installations such as Joint Base San Antonio and Ft. Bliss nearby, where many constituents serve or support. ###
09.28.2015	Washington, DC— According to the Small Business Administration, the over 2.3 million small businesses in Texas employ about half of the state’s private workforce. Additionally, they make up over 98% of all employers in the state. Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted to support small businesses by approving the Protecting Affordable Coverage for Employees Act. Without passage of the bill, the definition of “small employers” under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) would have changed to include businesses with up to 100 employees. This would force many more businesses into the small group market plan resulting in dramatic increases in premiums for employers and higher out-of-pocket costs for employees. Texas businesses that have already been forced into this definition have seen a 19% increase in premiums and their employees have seen a loss of over $1,000 a year in pay. “The uncertainty that comes from harmful policies like Obamacare discourages small businesses in my district from investing in innovation, expansion, and most importantly, hiring,” said Representative Hurd. “Obamacare's destructive requirements encourage employers to cut hiring and the number of hours employees work in order to accommodate expensive premiums. The result is lower wages, fewer hours worked, and less opportunity for millions of American families who are still struggling in today's economy.” H.R. 1624 passed by voice vote and has been sent to the Senate. ###
09.25.2015	Washington, DC—Today U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), joined Representatives Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Lamar Smith (R-TX), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), and Joaquin Castro (D-TX), in introducing a bipartisan emergency funding bill to Congress for the new construction of a critically needed federal courthouse in San Antonio, Texas. The bill, H.R. 3612, comes in response to years of unsuccessful requests for federal courthouse funding through the traditional appropriations process, which has most recently bumped San Antonio down to the 8th priority on the list. “It’s outrageous that some of the most violent drug trafficking and organized crime cases in Texas are being tried in a 1960s movie theatre. The building’s shortcomings pose a serious physical threat to the Federal employees that work there and the increasing numbers of civilians that visit the adjacent playground,” said Hurd. “The way I see it, the current facility puts the health and safety of San Antonians at risk. Moving the U.S. Federal Court proceedings out of this dangerous and unsecure location is a public safety priority.” "The Wood Courthouse has kept the Western District going for nearly 50 years, but it unfortunately does not have the capacity to support it any longer," Congressman Cuellar said. "The project to build a new courthouse is deserving of emergency appropriations because of the building’s numerous problems: The building’s water quality, air quality, space, safety and security issues go beyond simple repairs, and I am calling on Congress and the General Services Administration (GSA) to approve the construction of a new courthouse immediately.” ### Hurd Se Une a la Lucha por una Nueva Corte Federal Introduce un proyecto de ley de financiamiento urgente en el Congreso Washington, DC – Hoy el Congresista Estadounidense Will Hurd (R-TX), se unió a los Congresistas Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Lamar Smith (R-TX), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), y Juaquin Castro (D-TX), para introducir un proyecto de ley de bipartidista de financiación urgente al congreso para la nueva construcción de una corte federal críticamente necesitada en San Antonio, Texas. El proyecto de ley, H.R. 3612, vino en respuesta a años de peticiones denegadas para el financiamiento de una corte federal a través del proceso tradicional de asignaciones, que recientemente bajo a San Antonio hasta el octavo lugar en su lista de prioridades. “Es vergonzoso que algunos de los casos más violentos de narcotráfico y de crímen organizado en Texas se están juzgando en un cine de películas de los ‘60s. Las deficiencias del edificio posen serias amenazas físicas para los empleados federales que trabajan allí y el número crecientes de personas que visitan el patio de recreo a la par” dijo Hurd. “La forma que yo lo veo, la instalación actual pone la salud y la seguridad de la gente de San Antonio en peligro. Moviendo los procedimientos de la Corte Federal afuera de este lugar peligroso e inseguro es una prioridad para la seguridad pública.” “La Corte Federal Wood ha mantenido al Distrito Oeste funcionando por casi 50 anos, pero desafortunadamente no tiene la capacidad para mantenerlo por más tiempo,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “El proyecto para construir una corte se merece apropiaciones urgentes por los muchos defectos que tiene el edificio: la cualidad de agua, de aire, la falta de espacio, y la seguridad van mas allá que unas simples reparaciones, y estoy pidiendo al Congreso y a la Administración de Servicios Generales (GSA) que aprueben la construcción de una corte inmediatamente.”
09.25.2015	Washington, DC— Today, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) announced that approximately $265,000 has been approved by the Texas Transportation Commission for improvements at the Alpine-Casparis Municipal Airport in West Texas. U.S. Representative Will Hurd commended TxDOT on this award. “Many of my constituents that live in rural areas depend on improved airport service for their livelihood and businesses,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd. “This grant is a win for the City of Alpine and Brewster County who will be able to fund the engineering design for new asphalt, two taxiways, and rehabilitation to Runway 5-23." Arrivals and departures from community airports account for more than three million flight hours per year and provide aircraft facilities for agricultural, medical, business and commuter use. "Grants like this are key to maintaining this multimillion dollar air transportation asset in Alpine,” said Rick Stephens, an Alpine City Councilman. "The airport supports medical evacuations, emergency services, and overnight package delivery; brings tourists to Alpine and the Big Bend Region; and ensures support for TxDot and the US Customs and Border Patrol who serve our area. TxDot provides up to 90% of the cost of airport improvements, thereby reducing the financial impact on the city to maintain this vital capability." ###
09.24.2015	Washington, DC—This morning U.S. Representative Will Hurd will attend the historic Congressional address given by Pope Francis of the Holy See, the first time a sitting Pope has ever formally addressed the U.S. Congress and the first time Pope Francis has visited the United States. With nearly 70 million members in the United States, the Catholic Church is the largest denomination in the nation, comprising of 22% of the population. Congressional District 23 in Texas has a large number of Catholic residents and Hurd will host constituents who are in thecapital for this historic event with His Holiness the Pope. “The Pope’s historic visit to Congress reinforces our shared values of helping those most in need and promoting freedom for all so we have every opportunity to pursue our dreams," said Hurd. The public can watch a live stream of Pope Francis’s Congressional address at https://www.speaker.gov/pope. Hurd will host a small reception for any residents of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas in his Congressional Office, Cannon 317, immediately following the Pope’s address. ### El Congreso le da la Bienvenida al Papa Francisco a los Estados Unidos Primer discurso Papal a una sesión conjunta del Congreso Washington, DC –Esta mañana el congresista Will Hurd asistirá al discurso histórico ante el Congreso del Papa Francisco de la Santa Sede; es la primera vez que un Papa se ha dirigido formalmente al Congreso Estadounidense y la primera vez que el Papa Francisco ha visitado los E.E.U.U. Con casi 70 millones de miembros de la iglesia Católica en los Estados Unidos, el Catolisismo es la denominación más grande en el país, con un 22% del total de la población. El Distrito Congresional 23 de Texas cuenta con un gran numero de residentes Católicos y su Representante Hurd, recibirá a varios constituyentes en la capital para este historico evento con su santidad el Papa. “La visita histórica del Papa al Congreso refuerza nuestros valores común de ayudar a los más necesitados, y promover la libertad para que todos tengan cada oportunidad de realizar sus sueños,” dijo Hurd. El público puede ver el discurso del Papa en vivo a través dehttps://www.speaker.gov/pope. Hurd invita a cualquier residente del Distrito Congresional 23 de Texas a una pequeña recepción en su oficina Congresional, Cannon 317, al concluir el discurso del Papa Francisco. ###
09.22.2015	San Antonio, TX—U.S. Representative Will Hurd brought Washington to San Antonio today to learn from local experts how federal IT servers can be converted over to a less costly and more secure cloud computing system. UTSA, which boasts the nation’s top-ranked cybersecurity program, hosted the hearing entitled “The State of the Cloud” which drew tech aficionados, students, and local reporters. “Bringing the hearing to San Antonio was a chance for Congress to learn from technology experts about how to move the federal government into the 21st Century while shining a national light on how San Antonio is shaping our digital future,” says Rep. Hurd. “Between the private, defense, and academic sectors, San Antonio is developing groundbreaking cybersecurity solutions that the rest of the country can learn from.” Witnesses included Rackspace, Amazon Web Services, and VMware vCloud from the private sector, and UTSA and the Department of Homeland Security from the public sector. Suggestions from the hearing included a robust assessment of all IT systems currently in use by federal agencies and calls for agencies to act quickly to ensure the adoption of the Cloud First policy put forth in 2011. “The IT subcommittee will continue to hold agencies accountable for the continual use of outdated legacy technologies that only waste hard earned taxpayer dollars,” said Hurd. ### Coverage Received: https://www.therivardreport.com/rep-hurds-hearing-at-utsa-to-focus-on-state-of-the-cloud/ https://www.expressnews.com/business/local/article/Hurd-hopes-hearing-will-nudge-feds-to-the-cloud-6520240.php https://blog.mysanantonio.com/technology/2015/09/san-antonio-takes-starring-role-in-federal-it-hearing/ https://www.bizjournals.com/sanantonio/news/2015/09/22/congressman-u-s-government-needs-to-move-to-the.html https://www.ktsa.com/hurd-to-host-hearing-in-s-a/ In order from left to right - Dr. Mauli Agrawal, Vice President of Research at UTSA; President Ricardo Romo, UTSA; Mark Ryland, Director, Solutions Architecture and Chief Architect, Amazon Web Services; Rep. Robin Kelly; John Engages, Chief Technology Officer, Rackspace; Mr. Alan Boissy, Product Line Manager, VMware vCloud Government Service; Mr. Mark Kneidinger , Director, Federal Network Resilience Division, DHS; Rep. Will Hurd
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) voted with 240 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to withhold funding from Planned Parenthood for a one-year period unless they certify not to perform any elective abortions, with exceptions based on saving the life of the mother, rape, and incest. The organization has been under fire recently for the allegedly unlawful sales of fetal tissue, launching several Congressional investigations into their operation. “I believe that every human life is sacred, including both the mother and the child,” says Hurd, who sits on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, one of the House Committees currently investigating Planned Parenthood. “No matter where you stand on the issue, these outrageous videos show an organization with a callous approach to life that taxpayers should not be forced to fund.” A pro-life conservative, Hurd has a 100 percent score with National Right to Life for his voting record in the 114th Congress. “There are at least 38 underfunded community health centers in the 23rd Congressional District that provide quality women’s health care. These clinics would put that funding to much better use than the one Planned Parenthood in the district, without sacrificing women’s access to care,” concluded Hurd. ### Hurd vota por dar fin al aborto financiado por contribuyentes ‘Yo creo que toda vida humana es sagrada’ Washington, D.C. –Hoy, el Congresista Will Hurd (R-TX), junto con 240 de sus colegas en la Cámara de Representantes, voto para retener los fondos otorgados a Planned Parenthood por un año, al menos que garanticen que no realizaran ningún aborto, con la excepción de salvarle la vida a la madre o por motivos de violación, o incesto. Esta organización se ha encontrado bajo una polémica reciente por denuncias de la venta ilegal de tejidos fetales, lanzando varias investigaciones Congresionales en contra de sus operaciones. “Yo creo que toda vida humana es sagrada, incluyendo las de la madre y el hijo,” dijo Hurd, quien es miembro del Comité de Supervisión y Reforma del Gobierno, uno de los comités de la Cámara que actualmente está investigando a Planned Parenthood. “No importa cómo te sientas en cuanto al asunto, estos videos indignantes demuestran una organización con indiferencia a la vida, por lo cual, los contribuyentes no deben estar obligados a financiarlo.” Un conservativo pro-vida, Hurd tiene una valoración de 100 por ciento con la organización National Right to Life (Derecho Nacional a la Vida) por su record de voto en el Congreso. “Hay por lo menos 38 centros de salud comunitarios de pocas finanzas en el Distrito Congresional 23 que proveen servicio médico de alta calidad para mujeres. Estas clínicas pusieran esos fondos a mejor uso que Planned Parenthood en el distrito, sin sacrificar el acceso del cuidado para mujeres,” concluyo Hurd. ###
09.11.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted this week on three pieces of legislation regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPA), also known as the Iran nuclear deal. The first expressed the need for all documents relating to the deal to be turned over to Congress for proper oversight. The second vote was to approve the JCPA worked out between Iran and other world powers, including the United States. The third vote was prohibit the President from lifting sanctions on Iran until January of 2017. “These were some of the most consequential votes I’ve made since being sworn in,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), a nine year veteran of the CIA who voted against approval of the deal. “When I served as an undercover officer in the CIA I collected intelligence on Iran’s nuclear program. So I can say from first-hand experience that Iran is trying to acquire a nuclear weapon and they cannot be trusted under any circumstances. This deal does not stop Iran from reaching its goal and does not hold them accountable to the degree that’s necessary. Not only should it be rejected, but additional sanctions should be placed on Iran until they come back to the negotiating table and agree to terms that allow ‘anytime, anywhere’ inspections, the complete dismantlement of dual-use facilities and recognize Israel’s right to exist. And for those who claim that our European allies will choose to trade with Iran rather than help us reinstate sanctions should give serious consideration to what that says about how this administration’s foreign policy has degraded our standing in the world.” ###
09.04.2015	Alpine, TX – U.S. Representative Will Hurd congratulated the University of Texas San Antonio for being named by the Department of Homeland Security as the Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAO) Standards Organization. With this designation, UTSA receives a grant to help them create standards that will assist in the creation of ISAOs, which serve as the hub for information sharing and collaboration between the public and private sectors. “Cybersecurity remains a serious national security issue and I’m proud to see UTSA continue to be part of finding solutions that work,” said Hurd, a cybersecurity expert who chairs the Information Technology Subcommittee on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee in Congress. “Voluntary information-sharing is a vital component of the necessary cooperation between the government and the private sector, and I have complete confidence in UTSA’s ability to create standards that protect privacy while equipping American businesses to combat cyber threats.” “We are very excited to have DHS award us the grant to establish national standards and guidelines for creation of Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAO),” said Dr. Greg White, Professor of Computer Science and Director of the Center for Infrastructure Assurance and Security at UTSA. “ These organizations will be critical in the nation’s efforts to address cyber security threats in all sectors. Our team, consisting of the Center for Infrastructure Assurance and Security (CIAS) at UTSA, the Logistics Management Institute (LMI), and the Retail Cyber Intelligence Sharing Center (R-CISC), is ready to begin working closely with DHS on this effort and we will be holding our first public forum before the end of the year.” ###
08.14.2015	San Antonio, TX – Congressmen Will Hurd (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) today claimed success in their efforts to encourage Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker to accept a proposal from Mexico’s state-owned petroleum company, PEMEX, to swap light U.S. oil for imports of heavy Mexican oil. Earlier this year, Hurd and Cuellar co-authored a letter to Secretary Pritzker and spearheaded an effort urging the Commerce Department to strongly weigh the benefits of such a deal for our National Energy Security and the Texas economy. The Commerce Department announced that it has approved PEMEX’s application. “An agreement like this is a strong step towards North American Energy Security, which is an integral part of our National Security. I believe it will open the door for more reforms that move North America towards energy security,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX23), who spent more than nine years serving as an undercover CIA officer and sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “Energy trade is a key component of our economic relationship with Mexico and recent changes in their energy policies have given us an opportunity to strengthen that exchange. The American Energy Renaissance that has flourished in Texas due to Eagle Ford, Permian Basin and Barnett shale exploration will continue to strengthen because of this decision.” “Texas will gain tremendously from this oil swap agreement. The petroleum industry in Texas, in large part due to shale production, has revitalized our nation’s economy,” said Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28). “These swaps will further positively impact energy exploration in Texas and the United States. The U.S. and Mexico have a great relationship when it comes to trade and commerce, and today’s announcement is a clear sign that both countries are eager to further develop their energy sectors. I thank Secretary Penny Pritzker and Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security Eric Hirschhorn for their important role in securing this agreement.” "The U.S.-Mexico Oil Swap approval is good news for energy producers in South and West Texas, particularly in view of the recent drop in West Texas Intermediate benchmark prices," said Dr. Thomas Tunstall, research director for the University of Texas at San Antonio Institute for Economic Development. "The swap will enhance North American energy security, and will also better optimize refining facilities in both the U.S. and Mexico. Mexico is a key trading partner with the U.S. and the recently announced swap will further strengthen that relationship.” The Energy Policy and Conservation Act delegates authority to the Commerce Department to exempt the prohibition of crude oil and natural gas exports which is determined to be in the best interest of the nation and has been used on many occasion to authorize swaps under existing regulations. ###
08.13.2015	San Antonio, Texas – U.S. Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas released the following statement in response to the vandalism perpetrated against a Jewish community in his district: “The kind of blind hatred that’s behind this vandalism confounds me. But what’s impressive is how the victims of this crime are choosing to respond to their attackers with a spirit of forgiveness and tolerance. They are the true reflection of our community and I am proud to be a part of it. “We have reached out to Rabbi Aryeh Scheinberg and pledged to assist in their efforts to repair damages and to help find the people responsible." ###
08.07.2015	Washington, DC – Continuing his track record of being an effective representative for the people in the 23rd Congressional district of Texas, Congressman Will Hurd announced that a second bill he introduced has been signed into law by the President. Designed to cut government waste and save tax dollars, the IT Duplication Reduction Act forces the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to identify and propose reductions on duplicative information technology (IT) systems within the agency. “Sometimes Washington bureaucrats forget that the money in their budgets doesn’t belong to them. It belongs to the people and should be used as efficiently as possible,” said Hurd, who has an extensive IT background, both in the private sector and as an undercover officer in the CIA. “It just doesn’t make sense for one federal agency to use multiple IT systems that do the same thing." When DHS was created in 2003 it merged 22 agencies, each with its own IT systems. More than 600 IT systems have been identified in FEMA alone. “I applaud Congressman Hurd for his good government legislation which identifies and reduces wasteful Washington spending,” stated Texas Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. "Each year, DHS spends billions of dollars on IT programs and, to date, has failed to eliminate unnecessary duplication of these systems, leading to wasted taxpayer dollars and inefficient operations. H.R. 1626 will force DHS to increase accountability of its IT programs and make the systems that DHS frontline personnel depend on more efficient.” Hurd is the first Congressional Representative of Texas 23 to have a bill signed into law in eight years. His previous law forced DHS bureaucrats to fully implement a reformed overtime pay structure, saving Border Patrol Agents in the district and across the country from severely reduced paychecks. That reformed pay structure will save $1 billion over ten years. “I came to Washington to find solutions and fix problems. Runaway spending is certainly a problem and I’m working hard to make sure government runs effectively and efficiently for the people I represent,” Hurd concluded. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) today introduced the EINSTEIN Act of 2015, his fourth bill this Congress. The bill would authorize the Department of Homeland Security to deploy the EINSTEIN 3A program, which is an advanced tool that the U.S. government can use to respond to and mitigate cyber threats. EINSTEIN 3A (E3A) provides a perimeter defense snapshot and uses classified information to act as a first line of defense against cyber espionage. Hurd believes that a fully authorized Einstein program would be a helpful tool in preventing future data breaches. DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson has explicitly called for EINSTEIN’s authorization by Congress. “The data stored on .gov networks and held by federal agencies can be extremely sensitive,” says Hurd, who served as an undercover CIA officer for almost a decade and has extensive private sector experience with cybersecurity. Noting that his own information was compromised in the recent OPM data breach, Hurd continues, “Our adversaries are attempting to steal military secrets and valuable information on a daily, if not hourly basis. It is imperative that the federal government does everything it can to protect ourselves from the bad actors who are continuously trying to hack our systems. It’s bad enough when any person’s private information is stolen and used for identify theft, but imagine the grave impact of the theft of information belonging to those who are tasked with protecting America’s most sensitive information. ” E3A Authorization will assist DHS and all federal and civilian agencies in deploying the program, while removing legal uncertainty for private sector entities and ensuring that civilian privacy is not compromised. Hurd previously introduced a similar EINSTEIN amendment that was adopted into the info-sharing bill passed by the House earlier this year, but is currently stalled in the Senate. Hurd has had two pieces of legislation pass the House this year, one of which is already signed into law and the other is sitting on the President’s desk. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass the VA Accountability Act of 2015, which will give the Secretary of Veterans Affairs greater authority and flexibility in firing VA employees who fail to properly do their job. Despite revelations of secret waiting lists that led to the improper care and possible deaths of Veterans attempting to get health care assistance from VA clinics, only three VA employees have been fired in connection. “This is the biggest difference between government and the private sector,” said Will Hurd, a Republican who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. "In the real world, if a person fails to do their job, they are fired. In government, even if an employee is penalized, it may take months or years before real action is taken. This is especially egregious in this situation since some of our nation’s heroes suffered due to negligence and malfeasance. It is utterly inexcusable. For the sake of our Veterans, I urge Secretary McDonald to take this new authority and clean house.” ###
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Working to protect small businesses in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas from overbearing federal red tape, U.S. Representative Will Hurd today voted in favor of the REINS Act. This bill will require expensive new regulations to be submitted by federal agencies to Congress for oversight and to approval before being enacted. “When 72 percent of small businesses report that regulations are hurting their operating environment it’s time to make changes,” said Hurd, who was an advisor to a cybersecurity firm before being elected to Congress. “Even the President has acknowledged that over-regulation ‘stifles innovation’ and has ‘a chilling effect on growth and jobs.’ During this disappointing economic recovery, our families and small businesses need all the help they can get. I believe that the best thing that Congress can do to help is limit federal overreach and remove unnecessary obstacles.” In 2014, federal regulations cost an estimated $1.88 trillion, which is almost $15,000 per U.S. household and equals 11.5 percent of real GDP. ###
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Will Hurd from Texas joined his Republican colleagues on the Committee for Oversight and Government Reform in calling for the President to fire IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. Citing Koskinen’s failure to comply with a congressional subpoena and for making false statements to Congress, Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) promised to pursue “all constitutional remedies at our disposal, including potential contempt proceedings or perhaps impeachment” of Director John Koskinen. “Let me state this plainly. If an American citizen repeatedly failed to produce documentation that the IRS demanded, the IRS would pursue legal action to have that citizen put in jail,” Hurd said. “Washington bureaucrats need to be held to the same standard. Koskinen lied to Congress and the American people he works for. Under his direction, the IRS has failed to produce the documents a congressional subpoena calls for. Justice demands that Koskinen be held accountable for his actions and I will work with my Oversight colleagues to make sure that’s what happens.” *Video for the OGR press conference is here and Chairman Chaffetz’s full statement can be found here. ###
07.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX), working with Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), announced today the introduction of legislation which will give states more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds, allowing them to invest more into border infrastructure. “International trade and commerce is the life-blood for many cities and small towns in my district,” said Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, which has more than 820 miles of international border. “Making it easier to safely move goods and services across the Texas-Mexico border will be good for both sides. Putting resources back into the infrastructure that facilitates that movement of goods is a longtime coming and I’m proud to support it.” “This is an important bill, one that will undoubtedly benefit Laredo and The Rio Grande Valley; as well as border communities across the country. My home town of Laredo is host to the nation’s largest inland port, which services over 12,000 daily commercial truck crossings and 1,500 daily rail crossings. It is imperative that the transportation infrastructure around our nation’s ports and trade centers, such as the Port of Laredo, are in peak condition to insure our economy keeps moving forward,” Cuellar said. Senator Cornyn worked to include similar language in H.R. 22, the long-term highway bill currently pending before the Senate. “As the top exporting state in the nation, Texas relies on quality infrastructure along its southern border to help transport more than $100 billion in exported Texas goods to Mexico each year and support hundreds of thousands of Texas jobs. Allowing border states like Texas more flexibility in the long-term planning of border projects will benefit workers and consumers in our state and across the country,” said Sen. Cornyn. The legislation is receiving support from officials and stakeholders on the border, who understand the importance of having secure and stable routes across the border. “I applaud Congressman Hurd for introducing legislation that would help bring additional funds to border communities like El Paso,” said Oscar Leeser, Mayor of El Paso. “Since taking office, I have advocated for increased funding for bridge infrastructure to help with economic development, and today’s bill would bring additional resources to the US-Mexico border region to help execute important projects for the El Paso region.” "Border wait times at our international land ports of entry are having serious negative impacts to our country's economy. We are thankful for introduction of this legislation and the leadership demonstrated by U.S. Senators Boxer and Cornyn as well as Congressmen Hurd and Cuellar on this issue of vital economic importance. This legislation will provide funds to our border states for needed infrastructure expansion and freight mobility projects located at our international borders," stated Jesse J. Hereford, Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance. H.R. 3181 will create a Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) Reserve Fund creating an explicit avenue through which border States like Texas can reserve up to 5% of statewide Surface Transportation Funds for qualified border infrastructure purposes. This legislation allows stakeholders and border communities to advocate for border infrastructure and provides funding certainty. ###
07.24.2015	Washington, DC—U.S. Rep. Will Hurd is working to transform San Antonio into the nation’s “Cyber City, USA." Today, Hurd led his colleagues Reps. Lamar Smith, Joaquin Castro, and Henry Cuellar in urging the Pentagon to bring a new National Guard Cyber Protection Team (CPT) to San Antonio. If successful, more cybersecurity positions will becomes available for National Guard members in a city that boasts a growing information technology sector. “These are the types of jobs we want in San Antonio. A CPT would be the perfect complement to our strong defense community, booming tech industry, and academic institutions,” said Congressman Hurd. “Right now, we have more qualified service members who want to stay here in Texas and serve in the Guard than there are opportunities. We need to provide these heroes with more reasons to stay and serve our country – in San Antonio – especially after we have invested thousands of dollars training them. The Department of Defense, private sector, and hardworking individuals of our community all benefit from these partnerships and we’re all working together to promote them.” The attached letter was sent to the Pentagon today. “I applaud the efforts of our Congressional delegation to secure the placement of a Cyber Protection Team in San Antonio,” said Ivy R. Taylor, Mayor of San Antonio. "A CPT in San Antonio will leverage our strong local cyber security industry, military presence, outstanding local academic programs and skilled workforce to cost-effectively augment our nation’s cyber-defense.” "The Texas National Guard is uniquely qualified to grow and maintain cyber force structure within our formations due to the large civilian high-tech workforce in Texas from which to recruit and our proximity to the 24th Air Force headquarters. Bringing a Cyber Protection Team to San Antonio is a natural fit and will bolster our capabilities,” added Major General John F. Nichols, The Adjutant General of Texas. ### SADEL CPT Support Letter.pdf Gov. Abbott SA CPT Support.pdf
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – Will Hurd, U.S. Representative for the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, today roundly condemned the details released regarding the draft nuclear deal between Iran and six world powers, including the United States. Hurd served as an undercover case officer for the CIA for nearly a decade in countries including Pakistan, India and Afghanistan and has firsthand, extensive experience in confronting America's enemies in the Middle East. “Under economic sanctions, Iran still managed to regularly fund state-sponsored terrorism,” Hurd stated. “By removing these sanctions, we have increased their ability to conduct acts of terror and America and her allies will suffer the consequences. Iran’s aggressive foreign policy decisions make their intention to foster continued unrest in the Middle East abundantly clear. "The Iranian government, at the direction of the Ayatollah, has proven repeatedly to be an untrustworthy negotiating partner. Any promises they make require the highest level of verification, something I do not fully trust this Administration to demand. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to reject any deal that lifts sanctions against Iran until two criteria have been met. First, they acknowledge Israel’s right to exist. Second, they dismantle their existing dual-use nuclear infrastructure and give unfettered access for inspection of these facilities. Until then, we are negotiating from a position of weakness and risk being party to creating something our world cannot tolerate – a nuclear Iran.” ###
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – Supported by a strong bipartisan majority, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed the 21st Century Cures Act, which will promote the development of new treatments and cures for thousands of diseases that afflict Americans. “We can help pave the way for increased medical innovation in America and do it in a way that is good for taxpayers, our economy and the millions of people these new cures will help,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “This bill will get our best scientists, many of whom are right here in Texas, back into the laboratories finding a cure for cancer instead of spending time writing research grant proposals.” The 21st Century Cures Act will expedite the movement of life-saving discoveries through the maze of federal bureaucracy by breaking down barriers and increasing communication between patients, the FDA, and researchers. The Cures Act will also modernize the clinical trial process by becoming more adaptive to new techniques and leveraging technology. Since Texas currently conducts the second most clinical trials in the country, freeing up this process encourages new scientists to begin promising research careers. New economic incentives for the development of treatments for rare diseases will also be introduced and will help expedite therapies and treatments to those who are most in need, yet often ignored. "I thank Congressman Hurd for his leadership and support of the Century Cures Act, which will enhance the infrastructure of biomedical research in this country and ensure that the United States continues to be in the forefront of health science initiatives worldwide,” stated William L. Henrich, M.D., MACP, President of the The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio. "The effect of adding $10 billion to the National Institutes of Health budget over a five-year period will be significant and welcomed, making possible many new research programs that ultimately will alleviate human suffering and economic costs, including new initiatives at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio." “Unleashing the medical innovators in District 23 will save lives and promote job creation. America has led the global medical device and biopharmaceutical industries for generations and the 21st Century Cures Act will help make sure it stays that way,” Hurd concluded. ###
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Katherine Archuleta, Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM): “It’s too late for the 21 million Americans who had their personal information compromised due to her lack of action. Many of us in Congress have called on Director Archuleta to step down on multiple occasions and I believe that resigning is the right thing for her to do. The President should appoint a new director who truly understands the digital challenges we face and has the right experience to take the steps necessary to ensure we’re ready for the next cyber-attack. “These recent incidents should serve as a wake-up call to Congress that we must move swiftly to improve our cyber posture. The House has passed two information-sharing bills in this Congress. It’s time for the Senate to act and send these bills to President Obama’s desk.” ###
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd's amendment to protect the privacy rights of our nation’s children overwhelmingly passed the House 424-2. Educational databases contain massive amounts of personally identifiable and private information, including test scores, contact information, income levels, and in some cases, even social security numbers. Hurd’s amendment to H.R. 5, The Student Success Act, encourages the administration to make student privacy a priority in any future regulations. “We cannot ignore the string of recent high-profile data breaches that have compromised millions of Americans,” said Hurd. “While increasingly digital classrooms are improving education quality, protecting the privacy of our kids has never been more important.” The Student Success Act removes oppressive and ineffective federal testing requirements that restricts local curriculums in Texas. “Our teachers, administrators and parents have a better understanding of what works, and what doesn’t, for our students. We’re glad to see more control being given back to the state and local school districts,” said Dr. Brian Woods, Northside ISD Superintendent. Dr. Brian G. Gottardy, Superintendent of Schools, North East ISD added, “The nation is engaged in an important discussion about the future of education. I appreciate Rep. Hurd’s effort to pass legislation that eliminates the punitive Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) requirement and returns accountability to states, school districts and local communities. States and school districts need greater flexibility and resources to deliver a high quality education in their local communities.” ###
06.24.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd acted to protect energy consumers today by voting in favor of the Ratepayer Protection Act, which passed the House on a largely partisan vote. This bill will delay, pending a judicial review, the deadline power plants are facing to comply with new carbon dioxide emission rules proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It also gives states relief from implementing the Obama Administration’s Climate Action Plan if it’s determined that it will adversely impact prices or the reliability of the state’s electricity grid. “This executive overreach would have led to higher electric bills for households and small businesses across the country,” said Hurd. “Families are already struggling to make ends meet and the last thing they need is an EPA mandate that will increase the cost of electricity, groceries and other necessary items.” Hurd also noted that anything that negatively impacts American Energy Security is a direct hit against American National Security. “Our enemies would love to see our nation struggling with higher energy costs right now. During this dangerous time, we need stability like never before.” ###
06.23.2015	Washington, DC – Legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Will Hurd passed the House today that will reduce the waste of taxpayer dollars in the Department of Homeland Security. A Republican freshman representing the largest district in Texas, Hurd has now shepherded two bills through the House of Representatives, with the first one going all the way to the President’s desk for his signature. The DHS IT Duplication Reduction Act, which was passed unanimously by the Committee on Homeland Security, will require the Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to identify all IT systems used in DHS and formulate a strategy to condense and eliminate duplicative systems. “When you hear that there are more than 600 separate IT systems used at FEMA alone, you can be certain this is an outrageous and ridiculous waste of taxpayer dollars,” Hurd said. “Washington must stop abusing the trust of hard-working citizens and ensure that every dollar sent this way is used for effective, efficient government.” Pointing towards his time building a cybersecurity firm after leaving the CIA, Hurd noted that private sector businesses could never function under these practices and still survive. “I still marvel at the fact that 80 percent of the $80 billion spent by the federal government every year on IT projects goes to simply maintaining outdated, legacy systems. I came to Congress to change the top-down, wasteful way that Washington operates and this bill moves us in the right direction.” ###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to reauthorize Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), the procedure used by Congress for decades to require the executive branch to consider congressional objectives when negotiating trade agreements. “I believe it is in America’s best interest for Congress to have more say with ongoing trade negotiations and that is what TPA delivers,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “TPA will give Congress more access during the negotiating process and provide all Americans the opportunity to read trade agreements at least 60 days before they are voted on.” Supported by Texas Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, as well as organizations such as the Texas Farm Bureau, American Conservative Union, 60 Plus Association, Americans for Tax Reform and the Competitive Enterprise Institute, TPA will help ensure that American businesses and workers are able to stay competitive with foreign nations. Texas Toyota executive Chris Neilson said, "Exports of San Antonio built-Toyota trucks, which currently represent nearly 10 percent of their production, help keep our state and local economies moving forward. That includes the 6,000 assembly plant and suppliers positions, plus the 15,000 spin-off jobs created. We’re grateful that Rep. Hurd understands the importance TPA will play in making sure that growth continues.” There are about 3 million trade jobs in Texas and 48,000 of those jobs are in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. On average, trade related jobs pay 16% more than other jobs. "The U.S. needs more free trade agreements in order to increase the competitiveness of Texas-made goods in foreign markets, where high tariffs too often shut out American products. Congress passing Trade Promotion Authority is the first step. Not only does the Texas border depend on trade, but so does the economy of our great state. Texas needs TPA," stated Border Trade Alliance Chairman Jesse Hereford. “Trade is a vital part of the Texas economy and it’s my duty to support policies that bolster trade, promote economic growth and job creation in my district. That it also strengthens the constitutional rights of Congress and shines a bright light on the President’s ongoing trade negotiations at the same time makes this a win-win situation,” Hurd concluded. ###
06.11.2015	Washington, DC – Legislation providing funding for the Department of Defense and our men and women in uniform passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. Included was language demonstrating Congressional support to fix an ongoing problem at Laughlin Air Force Base in Del Rio, Texas, represented by Congressman Will Hurd. Laughlin trains more Air Force pilots every year than any other base, yet when it rains more than an a couple of inches, significant flooding occurs, which stops all training and causes damage to facilities and equipment . Despite asking for help to fix this problem for many years, funding has never been appropriated. However, language included in this year’s Department of Defense funding indicates this issue may finally be resolved. “The most ridiculous part of this whole situation,” said Hurd, who has worked closely with Laughlin command to fully understand the depth of the situation, “is that we have spent more money making temporary repairs than it will cost to fix the problem permanently. My thanks to the House Appropriations Committee, Chairman Rogers, and Chairman Frelinghuysen for their willingness to help work towards a solution for our men and women at Laughlin.” ###
06.11.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to repeal the Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) rule that requires retailers of certain meat products to list a product’s country-of-origin. Canada and Mexico have challenged the COOL labeling requirements, citing them as discriminatory against imported livestock and noting that they violate international trade obligations. The World Trade Organization (WTO) ruled against the U.S.earlier this year, finding that COOL requirements are not in compliance with existing international trade agreements. This legislation will repeal COOL, staving off potential retaliatory measures by Canada and Mexico that have been estimated to impact $9.2 billion worth of goods in Texas alone. “This is a simple changethat will protect our economy from significant harm,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd, whose large rural district includes a number of family-owned farms and ranches. “When our laws put our own producers at a disadvantage in a global market, it’s just common sense to change it.” Texas cattle producer and past president of the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, Bob McCan said, "COOL retaliation will have a major impact on our economy and our trading relationships, now and into the future. The economic analysis mandated by Congress reported that COOL has already cost the beef industry $8.07 billion over ten years, and now our two largest trading partners are seeking $3.6 billion in retaliatory tariffs on many U.S. products. After four rulings by the WTO, there is simply no fix that will bring us into compliance with our international trading partners and I appreciate Rep. Hurd’s support to repeal COOL before retaliation damages our economy.” “If the provisions are not repealed, Texas producers will be hit hard. Retaliation would also target a number of other agricultural products grown throughout the state and nation,” Texas Farm Bureau President Russell Boening added. “We can’t sit by and allow a now-tainted provision—that has offered little measurable benefit to producers—threaten other commodities grown by Texas farmers and ranchers.” Repealing COOL is expected to pass the Senate with bipartisan support. ###
06.10.2015	San Antonio, TX – U.S Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas released the following statement regarding the letter he submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission(FERC)regarding the proposed Trans-Pecos Pipeline: "I have listened to a number of questions, comments and concerns from elected officials and constituents regarding the proposed Trans-Pecos Pipeline. In response, I have compiled an extensive list of concerns and inquiries put forward by my constituents and directed them to Energy Transfer Partners, the company proposing to build the pipeline. Energy Transfer Partners remains unfortunately vague on important details and should be more cooperative in addressing these matters. For the reasons above, I am submitting a letter to FERC, who has federal jurisdiction over this project, which calls on them to address residents’ concerns over the proposed pipeline before it issues an approval. I share their frustration over the lack of transparency displayed by Energy Transfer Partners, and I believe each of them must be thoroughly addressed before FERC moves forward." ### Energy Transfer Partners Response.pdfLetter to Chairman Bay.pdf
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation yesterday which reauthorizes civilian research programs at the National Science Foundation, the National Institute for Standards and Technology and other civilian science agencies. These agencies offer grants to universities across the nation that serve to kickstart the basic research that drives innovation in our economy. Included in the legislation was an amendment supported by Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) which will give universities and colleges designated as Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) greater access to STEM grants. “If America is going to have a healthy economy that continues to be the strongest in the world, we have to have a 21st Century workforce that is able to compete in a global market,” said Hurd who represents several universities which are designated as HSI. “The institutions of higher learning in my district are committed to encouraging more Hispanic students to pursue STEM degrees, because they know that this benefits the students, the communities and our economy. STEM education and research is critical to our national security from an economic and defense perspective. We must leverage new technologies if we hope to remain a leader on the global stage. I’m proud to support an amendment that finally gives them equal access to these important grants." There are 47 institutions in Texas which are designated as HSI and more than a dozen of them serve students in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. Dr. Ricardo Romo, President of the University of Texas at San Antonio, added, “This amendment would provide vital support for institutions like the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) that are dedicated to serving the nation’s growing Hispanic population and conducting world class research. It would allow UTSA to further provide a positive impact for our country and expand opportunities for Hispanics. We are proud of the fact that currently UTSA ranks #7 in the nation in bachelor’s degrees awarded to Hispanics.” John Sharp, Chancellor of The Texas A&M University System, said, “We applaud this amendment, which would help stimulate additional vital research opportunities. The Texas A&M University System has more than 30 percent Hispanic student enrollment across our 11 universities, and four of them, including Texas A&M Corpus Christi, Texas A&M International, Texas A&M Kingsville, and Texas A&M San Antonio, would be immediately eligible for the programs this amendment would authorize. We are increasing our commitment to enroll Hispanic students across the state, particularly in STEM-related fields, and this amendment would help our four HSIs develop the research infrastructure to help these students be successful in the classroom and in the workforce.” As a Hispanic Serving Institution that is working to serve the higher education needs of the vast expanse of the middle and west Rio Grande valley areas, Sul Ross State University enthusiastically supports this amendment. Dedicated funding for HSIs will open new and very important opportunities for Hispanic students in Texas and throughout the country. We all know the statistics in terms of the growth and importance of the Hispanic population in our country. Sul Ross State University proudly serves a university population of over 60% Hispanics. It is our obligation to assure that the quality of life enhancements that higher education uniquely brings to our citizens be made available to all Hispanic students," stated Dr. Bill Kibler, President of Sul Ross University in Alpine, Texas. ###
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – Bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas was signed by the President yesterday, making him the first member of the Freshmen class of 2015 to have a bill become law. Beginning with the very next pay-period, this law will stabilize paychecks for Border Patrol Agents who, due to a lack of action by the Department of Homeland Security, were facing a deep cut in their pay, despite working the same number of hours. “What an honor to have a bill signed into law that truly helps some very deserving people. I came to Washington to find solutions and fix problems for the people in West Texas and that’s exactly what this law does,” said Hurd, whose district shares more than 820 miles of border with Mexico. “Border Patrol Agents have a highly dangerous and demanding job and often put their lives on the line for our safety. These dedicated public servants and their families deserve to have stability in the paychecks they have earned." Hurd represents a district that contains portions of four different Border Patrol Sectors, including Big Bend, El Paso, Del Rio and Laredo. More than 6,000 Border Patrol Agents are present in these sectors. “We would like to give our sincere gratitude to Congressman Hurd for helping sort through the pay issues that continue to plague the Border Patrol. What should have been a simple process turned into a debacle and the Congressman's assistance not only addressed the problem, it helped remove some of the financial uncertainty that many agents were experiencing,” said Jon Anfinsen, President NBPC Local 2366 in Del Rio, Texas. “Every day our men and women put their lives on the line to protect our communities. We appreciate the hard work of Congressman Hurd to protect them,” commented Stuart Harris, Vice President NBPC Local 1929 in El Paso, Texas. Hector Garza, President NBPC Local 2455 of Laredo, Texas, stated, “Our dedicated and hardworking United States Border Patrol Agents appreciate Rep. Hurd’s support and thank him for working tirelessly to support the men and women who keep our country safe from those individuals that intend to cause us harm. His leadership on this important issue will not go unnoticed by the Border Patrol Agents whose pay was threatened by the lack of action of Washington bureaucrats.” “Our agents not only protect our communities they support our local economy and small businesses. When our pay was under attack, Congressman Hurd acted quickly to protect not just us but the many businesses that rely on us,” added Lee Smith, President Local 2509 of Big Bend, Texas. ###
05.18.2015	El Paso, Texas – U.S. Representative Will Hurd announced today that the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services/Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) recently awarded Project Vida over $440,000 to refurbish and reopen Clínica Guadalpana in far east El Paso County. “I was proud to support Project Vida with their grant application to improve an underserved community’s access to quality healthcare,” said Rep. Hurd. “Clinics like Clínica Guadalupana provide comprehensive, quality, primary healthcare services to rural communities in my district, and this is a major win for the people in east El Paso county.” Assistance with grant requests is one of the many ways Hurd’s staff can serve the district. The Cincinnati-based Sisters of Charity established Clínica Guadalupana in 1995 to serve families in the Agua Dulce colonia outside Horizon City. The clinic was forced to close in 2010 due to financial pressures of providing uncompensated care. As a major provider of health care in underserved areas of the City of El Paso, East El Paso County and Hudspeth County, Project Vida applied for HRSA funds to re-open Clínica Guadalupana to provide access to primary and preventive care in the Agua Dulce neighborhood. The clinic is located at 901 Ascensión. The HRSA funds will allow Project Vida to re-furbish and staff the Clínica Guadalupana facility. A ribbon-cutting ceremony will be held in several months when the clinic is ready to receive patients. Project Vida currently operates clinics in the City of El Paso’s Chamizal, Northeast and central areas; in the Sparks and Montana Vista colonias of Far East El Paso County; and in Fort Hancock, Dell City and Sierra Blanca in Hudspeth County. Project Vida Co-Director Bill Schlesinger can be contacted for additional information. 915-533-7057, ext 207 or pvida@whc.net. ###
05.15.2015	Washington, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation today which provides for the nation’s defense and ensures our military has the proper tools to face the challenges of the 21st century. Included in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Authorization was an amendment by U.S. Representative Will Hurd which will allow certain individuals with the appropriate training within the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security to take the necessary exams and receive certification, confirming their skill level. The amendment did not authorize any additional funding. “As Chairman of the Information Technology Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, it’s become painfully clear to me that the IT infrastructure in the federal government is woefully behind the times. The folks who are tasked with the job of maintaining these outdated systems are hampered by bureaucracy and red tape. This amendment will help those individuals who work hard to improve and maintain it gain a universally recognized civilian certification. This ensures their training is effective, but more importantly helps those who leave the service find a good-paying job fit for their skills in the private sector. I’m proud to sponsor an amendment that will enhance national security and help Veterans transition to civilian employment. Everybody wins with this one.” The bill provides critical resources for our men and women around the world including millions of dollars for projects at Joint Base San Antonio. It protects access to commissaries and prevents a proposed cut to housing allowances and increased copays for military families. It includes a major reform that allows future service members to save money for retirement even if they don’t make a career out of the military. This means that for the first time the 83 percent of service members who are ineligible for military retirement will be able to take something with them after they serve. It invests in the critical technologies that will allow our military to remain dominant and eliminates wasteful programs and spending. Finally, it address the major issues facing the world today by ensuring our forces down range have clear guidance and authorities to take the fight to the enemy and win. ###
05.15.2015	* Rep. Hurd will be joined by border patrol agent representatives on a press conference call this afternoon. Please see information below. Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas announced today that his bipartisan legislation which will stabilize paychecks for Border Patrol Agents passed the House unanimously yesterday afternoon. This puts the legislation one step closer to becoming law. “Like all law enforcement officials, Border Patrol Agents deserve our deep appreciation for the sacrifices they and their families make every day to keep our communities and our nation safe,” said Hurd, whose district includes more than 820 miles of international border with Mexico. “They are dedicated public servants who are willing to confront human traffickers, drug cartels and many others who seek to do us harm. As the representative of a district that contains portions of four different sectors that are patrolled by more than 6,000 agents, I am proud to champion legislation that will offer these courageous men and women the stability in their paychecks that they deserve.” “We would like to give our sincere gratitude to Congressman Hurd for helping sort through the pay issues that continue to plague the Border Patrol. What should have been a simple process turned into a debacle and the Congressman's assistance not only addressed the problem, it helped remove some of the financial uncertainty that many agents were experiencing,” said Jon Anfinsen, President NBPC Local 2366 in Del Rio, Texas. “Every day our men and women put their lives on the line to protect our communities. We appreciate the hard work of Congressman Hurd to protect them,” commented Stuart Harris, Vice President NBPC Local 1929 in El Paso, Texas. Hector Garza, President NBPC Local 2455 of Laredo, Texas, stated, “Our dedicated and hardworking United States Border Patrol Agents appreciate Rep. Hurd’s support and thank him for working tirelessly to support the men and women who keep our country safe from those individuals that intend to cause us harm. His leadership on this important issue will not go unnoticed by the Border Patrol Agents whose pay was threatened by the lack of action of Washington bureaucrats.” “Our agents not only protect our communities they support our local economy and small businesses. When our pay was under attack, Congressman Hurd acted quickly to protect not just us but the many businesses that rely on us,” added Lee Smith, President Local 2509 of Big Bend, Texas. Quick action on this legislation in the Senate is expected, which will send it to the President for his signature. Hurd, Anfinsen, Harris, Garza and Smith will be joined by Shawn Moran, national Spokesperson for the National Border Patrol Council for a press conference call available to both local and national media to discuss the importance of this legislation for Border Patrol Agents. *Date/Time: Friday, May 15 3pmCT/4pmET Call in number: 1-800-791-2345 Media will need to contact Shana Teehan to receive the login code at shana.teehan@mail.house.gov or 202-225-4511. ###
05.12.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives moved to rein in the Environmental Protection Agency by passing bipartisan legislation that will require the EPA to withdraw their proposed rule that gives them unprecedented control over the Waters of the United States (WOTUS). The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act instructs the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to take into consideration the tens of thousands of comments received regarding the previous proposed rule before issuing another. The legislation also requires the EPA to consult with state and local officials, as well as other stakeholders on how to define what constitutes WOTUS. “This EPA rule was just another example of executive overreach by this administration. There’s no valid reason for the EPA to regulate the dry creek beds and ditches of ranchers and farmers in my district,” said Hurd. “This legislation will protect the existing rights of land-owners and responsibilities of local governments, and bring transparency and accountability back into the process.” “Nearly a thousand comments from Texas farmers and ranchers urged changes to the rule during the regulatory comment process. Texas Farm Bureau’s attempts to modify the rule were also ignored. The House action today requires the EPA and Corps to replace their current proposal with one that incorporates input from agriculture. It is a positive step forward,” added Russell Boening, President of the Texas Farm Bureau. The EPA and Army Corps of Engineers will have 30 days to withdraw the proposed rules once the bill becomes law. They will also be required to make all communications and documents available to the public, and submit a report detailing how they used comments offered by stakeholders and the public in the process of creating a new rule. ###
05.12.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas today introduced bipartisan legislation that would solve a problem regarding a reliable pay system for Border Patrol Agents. Without timely action, agents face pay cuts of $300 to $1000 a pay period due to the Department of Homeland Security’s procrastination in fully implementing a new pay scale and overtime system for border agents established in 2014. Hurd’s legislation will give DHS a hard start date, saving agents from working the same hours for far less pay. “The men and women who serve as Border Patrol Agents are hard working and dedicated law enforcement officials,” said Hurd, whose district includes over 800 miles of border between the U.S. and Mexico. “They often work in harsh conditions, sometimes putting their own lives at risk, in order to protect our nation and their communities. They and their families deserve our support and the security of a steady, dependable monthly income. It’s outrageous that the lack of action by a bunch of Washington bureaucrats is putting at risk the paychecks of these courageous agents.” Hurd represents portions of four Border Patrol Sectors, including Big Bend, Del Rio, El Paso and Laredo, manned by more than 6,400 Border Patrol Agents. National Border Patrol Council President Brandon Judd commented, “We want to thank Representative Will Hurd for his leadership on this important issue. This legislation will provide our Agent’s and their families’ financial stability by fully implementing the BPAPRA of 2014. Every day our Agents put their lives on the line to protect our communities from drug cartels, human smugglers, and other individuals intending to do harm. We appreciate the support of Rep. Hurd and thank him and his staff for their hard work and commitment to the men and women of the Border Patrol.” Hurd’s legislation is slated to be voted on by the House Committee on Oversight and Government reform this week and similar legislation is already moving in the Senate. ###
04.30.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan appropriations bill today focused on meeting the needs of veterans, service members and their families. The legislation provides a six percent increase over last year’s funding, ensuring increased resources for military readiness and comprehensive care for our nation’s veterans. The budget for Veterans Affairs is increased over last year by $4.6 billion, providing the funding necessary to cut through the claims backlog. Included was an amendment co-sponsored by U.S. Representative Will Hurd that will prohibit funds from being used for another round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). “Government action that wastes taxpayer dollars, hurts local economies and negatively impacts national security doesn’t make sense, but that’s precisely what another BRAC will do,” said Hurd. "This amendment will protect installations such as Laughlin Air Force Base and the communities like Del Rio and I’m proud to cosponsor it with fellow Texan, Rep. John Ratcliffe.” Hurd’s second amendment requires the Department of Veterans Affairs and their Chief Information Officer to modernize their acquisition and use of information technology, helping to ensure timely and quality care for American veterans. “Something as simple as allowing a veteran’s medical records to be available digitally to their health care providers shouldn’t be something beyond the capabilities of the greatest nation in the world. It’s time for the VA to join the 21st Century when it comes to information technology. It’s the least we can do for our veterans,” stated Hurd. ###
04.23.2015	Washington, DC – Drawing upon expertise learned while in the CIA and building a small cybersecurity firm, U.S. Representative Will Hurd helped usher through legislation to combat cyberattacks. The U.S. House of Representatives advanced another bipartisan bill today with the passage of the H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, introduced by Rep Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies. “Cybersecurity isn’t just the latest buzzword,” said Hurd, who serves as Chairman of the Information Technology Subcommittee for the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “It’s a serious issue with the potential to impact every American. Cyber attacks are a daily occurrence, affecting our government, U.S. businesses and American citizens. National secrets, proprietary data and personally identifiable information are all at risk due to bad actors seeking to cause maximum harm.” The legislation gives U.S. companies greater opportunity to share cyber threat data and centralizes the information into the civilian-run National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC). Measures are included in the bill to ensure that personal information is stripped before being passed on, protecting the privacy of American citizens. Three amendments introduced by Hurd were included in the final passage of the bill, including one which will help streamline DHS by authorizing the current program that is used to respond to and mitigate cyber threats. A second amendment, sponsored by every Member of Congress in the San Antonio, Texas area would formalize the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium within DHS, which provides cybersecurity training and exercise programs through several universities, including University of Texas at San Antonio. “The establishment of the consortium is critical for the nation, not just UTSA,” said Dr. Greg White, a professor specializing in computer and information security at the University of Texas San Antonio. "The nation needs an entity that states and communities can turn to for help in building viable and sustainable cyber security programs. This is a mission at which UTSA has been at the forefront since 2002." A third amendment, which was adopted unanimously, was added to the bill last week to ensure small and medium sized businesses have the same access to DHS cybersecurity resources that large firms currently enjoy. “I spent four years helping to build a small cybersecurity firm, so I know firsthand the issues they face. We need to make sure they have the resources they need, and this amendment will help. These small businesses work hard and contribute a great deal to the fight against cyber terror and their efforts benefit everyone,” Hurd stated. Though President Obama threatened to veto similar legislation from the House of Representatives in the last Congress, the White House has indicated support for current efforts. “Cyberattacks are an issue of national security. I encourage the Senate to take up this legislation and put it on the President’s desk for his signature,” concluded Hurd. ### *Videos of Rep. Hurd’s floor remarks regarding this legislation and his amendments are also available. "Begin with the presumption of breach. How do we detect, corral and kick them off of our system?” "It's clear we must focus on cyber preparedness at the federal and local level.” "Every day and every hour, hacktivists are attempting to breach US government systems."
04.17.2015	San Antonio, TX – On the heels of supporting legislation to repeal the Death Tax in Congress, U.S. Representative Will Hurd met with farmers from Uvalde, Medina and Frio counties this morning. Several issues were brought up at the meeting, including the Death Tax repeal, navigable waters rules, the Endangered Species Act and branched broomrape control. “The folks running these family farms in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas work hard and make so many sacrifices to not just put food on their table, but on ours as well. The are constantly fighting battles with federal bureaucracies to keep their farms operating. I’m going to keep fighting alongside them." The breakfast was coordinated by Ronnie Muennink, a Hondo farmer who is the Texas Farm Bureau State Director. ###
04.16.2015	Washington, DC – In support of the family owned ranches, farms and small businesses in his district, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) voted in favor of the bipartisan bill that permanently repeals the Death Tax. Hurd cosponsored the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, originally introduced by fellow Texas Congressman, Kevin Brady, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today 240 to 179. “I’ve had enough of the hypocrites who talk about achieving the American Dream and then support policies that punish the families who do,” said Hurd. “Family ranches, farms and small businesses across the district work hard and sacrifice to build something they can pass on to the next generation. Blindsiding a family who has just lost a loved one with a 40% tax bill that may cause them to lose their family business is immoral and un-American.” “Many farm and ranch families like mine are asset-rich and cash-poor, with most of the value of their estate attributed to the value of the land they use to raise cattle and grow food and fiber for consumers around the world,” explains Bobby McKnight, a seventh generation cattleman from Fort Davis. "When times have been lean, I have had to make sacrifices to keep my business above water, but sometimes you run out of places to cut. That is what happened to my family during hard times brought on by the estate tax. I had to let go of seasoned employees that had families of their own and were forced to work elsewhere. The skilled labor that I needed to run my operation was lost. Now as land values continue to increase, many farm and ranch families are concerned that they may trigger the estate tax simply through increasing land values.” “The Death Tax is devastating to family owned ranches and farms in Texas,” said Ronnie Muennink, a Hondo farmer and Texas Farm Bureau State Director. “Every year, fewer and fewer of these family ranches and farms survive because this tax forces them to sell off land to pay the tax. Sometimes their only option is to sell everything. I’m grateful to have a representative in Will Hurd who understands how much this tax harms our local economy and endangers the future of family-owned farms and ranches.” Total annual receipts for the Death Tax to the Federal Treasury account for less than 2 days of federal spending, yet the Death Tax remains the leading reason that family farms are not successfully passed down from one generation to the next. “The estate tax continues to be another added burden for small business owners, with more than a third of them having to pay attorneys, advisors, and life insurance companies to deal with it every year,” said Will Newton, Texas Executive Director of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). "It is especially important in Texas, where so many of our family-owned businesses, such as farms and ranches, are asset-rich and cash-poor. If you work your whole life and want to pass your business on to the next generation, Uncle Sam shouldn’t prevent you from doing so by slapping your family with a massive tax bill after you die. NFIB thanks Representative Hurd for voting to repeal the estate tax once and for all.” “Instead of taking away the money these folks have earned with their blood, sweat and tears, it makes more sense to cut out two days of spending from our bloated and wasteful federal budget. Allow me to remind my colleagues in Washington – this is not your money,” concluded Hurd. ###
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – In an effort to provide a level playing field for small and medium size businesses, U.S. Representative Will Hurd offered an amendment to cyber info-sharing legislation voted on today in the House Committee on Homeland Security. The amendment creates an entity at the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) that would provide outreach to these local businesses, ensuring the same access to government information on cyber risks and incident information that larger companies have. “I worked for a small cybersecurity firm for four years, so I know first-hand the obstacles these companies face,” said Hurd, who also dealt extensively with cybersecurity matters during his nine years in the CIA. "These smaller entities are doing great things in my district and beyond, and their efforts help protect other small companies. These groups perform at a high level and make up the bulk of the economy for this industry — they deserve the same access that a larger company has. Including them helps every company fighting this fight, large and small. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to make sure that information sharing makes it all the way to the President’s desk." The committee passed the amendment by voice vote unanimously. The legislation it’s attached to, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, now awaits further consideration by the whole House of Representatives. ###
03.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas introduced legislation today to require the Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to reduce duplicative information technology (IT) systems within DHS. When DHS was created in 2003, it merged 22 agencies, each with its own IT systems. More than 600 IT systems have been identified in FEMA alone. “Call me crazy, but it just doesn’t make sense to have one agency using multiple IT systems that do the same thing. That’s a ridiculous waste of taxpayer dollars,” says Hurd, who has an extensive IT background, both in the private sector and as an undercover officer in the CIA. The DHS IT Duplication Reduction Act of 2015 requires the DHS CIO to identify all IT systems in the department, assess the number of potentially duplicative systems and develop a strategy to reduce the duplication. The CIO must submit the findings and the strategy to the House Committee on Homeland Security, on which Hurd sits, as well as to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. An assessment of potential cost savings must be included. “We have to change the “it’s not my money, so let’s spend it” culture in government that leads to this kind of waste. Taxpayers should be able to trust that every tax dollar is being used carefully and thoughtfully on effective, efficient government that works for the people,” Hurd reminded his colleagues. ###
03.26.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation today that will increase seniors’ access to good doctors. This bill ensures a doctor’s ability to provide important medical care to people on Medicare. “Traveling the district, I hear story after story from seniors about how difficult it’s become to get an appointment with their doctor as fewer physicians agree to see Medicare patients,” said Congressman Will Hurd, who represents a mostly rural district in west Texas. “I know how important it is for my 82-year-old father to see his doctor in a timely manner and I want to make sure that he and every senior in my district have access to the care they need, when they need it.” In addition, Community Health Centers throughout the 23rd Congressional District of Texas represented by Hurd will also receive relief from the “primary care cliff” they were facing, which would have forced centers to lay-off staff, close clinics and discontinue services, causing thousands of Texans in rural communities to lose access to preventive healthcare. “Representative Hurd has 11 community health centers in his district providing high quality, affordable, cost-effective primary and preventive care to nearly 220,000 hard-working Texans, more than any other member of the Texas congressional delegation,” said José E. Camacho, Executive Director and General Counsel of the Texas Association of Community Health Centers. "TACHC and our members are grateful to Mr. Hurd for understanding the vital importance from San Antonio to El Paso that access to primary care means to the economic future of his vast district.” ###
03.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) joined his colleagues to pass a budget resolution which fully repeals the Affordable Care Act, restores vital defense spending and balances the federal budget in less than ten years without raising taxes. “Continuing to hollow out our military is simply not an option.With global threats increasing daily, now is simply not the time to limit our ability to take the fight to the enemy and win. The men and women in uniform who daily risk their lives for our freedom deserve to know they’ll have the support and resources they need,” said Hurd. The new House Budget cuts $5.5 trillion in spending, calls for a simpler, fairer tax code and moves the nation towards paying off the more than $18 trillion in debt. “Unless we get federal spending under control, the coming generation faces a burden too great to bear. It’s far past time for Washington to tighten its belt and start living within its means just like the families in my district do.” ###
03.24.2015	Washington, DC – In an effort to make it easier for veterans to receive health care when a VA facility is not easily accessible, U.S. Representative Will Hurd has cosponsored The Keeping our Promises to Veterans Act which will make additional reforms to Veterans Affairs. After revelations last year that veterans were being put on secret waiting lists in order to conceal unacceptable waiting times, changes were made to allow veterans to seek care outside of the VA system if they were more than 40 miles from a VA facility or would have to wait longer than 30 days to see a health care provider. Hurd believes more can be done. “For some of these heroes, 40 miles is too far and 30 days is too long,” says Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. "The bill I’m supporting will cut both of those numbers in half.” After this legislation was introduced by Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN), the VA announced that 40 miles would be determined by driving distance rather than radius, but according to Hurd, “That change will still leave too many veterans without easy access to the health care they need and have earned. Some of the long, winding roads in west Texas make these facilities far less accessible than they look on a map. While I’m pleased that the VA is responding to the pressure my colleagues and I are putting on them, cutting the radius down to 20 miles is the right thing to do for the courageous men and women who served our nation. ” ###
03.19.2015	Washington, DC – This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act in an effort to improve the EPA’s oversight process. Established in 1978, the Science Advisory Board (SAB) is critical in reviewing the scientific foundation for the EPA’s regulatory decisions. “The scientific reasoning used by the EPA should be objective and transparent,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd from the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “EPA regulations significantly impact many industries, including agriculture and the energy sector in my district. Increasing public oversight of the regulatory process and enabling local and federal cooperation will help make sure that EPA rules are based on sound science and not political objectives.” The House also voted to pass the Secret Science Reform Act, a bill which prohibits the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from proposing, finalizing, or disseminating regulations based on science that is not transparent or reproducible. "When it comes to influencing our nation’s laws, the EPA’s scientific studies should be transparent, accessible, and undisputed. Anything less puts undue burdens on our employers and inhibits much-needed growth in our local economy,” Hurd concluded. ###
03.16.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed two bipartisan bills that address critical needs for trauma system development and access to trauma care. The Access to Life Saving Trauma Care for All Americans Act and the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act will help to provide increased access to care for those who need it most by providing authority for vital funding for trauma centers and improvements to trauma care across the country. The legislation is supported by the National Trauma Institute (NTI), a national advocacy organization and coordinating center for trauma research located in San Antonio. NTI advocates for federal funding for trauma-related research that can help save lives, as well as infrastructure programs such as a national trauma clinical network and database that can make research dollars go further and decrease health care costs overall. "It’s exciting to see organizations like the National Trauma Institute working to improve trauma clinical practices and trauma system access,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), who supported this legislation. "Trauma system improvement and trauma care excellence are especially important to the men and women in uniform who serve our nation and have a higher probability of needing emergency medical services.” A major public health problem, traumatic injury is the number one cause of death between the ages of one and 46, and the third leading cause of death for all age groups. The economic burden to the nation is over $586 billion a year in health care costs and lost productivity. “Improvements made to trauma systems in civilian settings translate to the military environment, and vice versa,” said Donald Jenkins, MD, Board Vice Chair, National Trauma Institute; formerly the Trauma Medical Director at Lackland Air Force Base and a retired U.S. Air Force colonel. “Those of us in the surgical and emergency medicine fields see first-hand the toll that traumatic injury takes on our society, and we know we can do better.” ###
03.12.2015	San Antonio, TX – U.S. Representative Will Hurd announced today that he will address students and attendees of the Fifth Annual Alamo Regional Robotics Competition being held in San Antonio on Friday, March 13. The Alamo Regional event is the largest FIRST Regional event in the United States. “Preparing our children to thrive in a global economy during a digital age is vital for their own future and that of our nation. Alamo FIRST is working hard to make sure America continues to lead in innovation and I’m excited to join them on Friday,” said Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, stretching from San Antonio to El Paso. Hurd will speak at 8:30 am at the opening ceremonies at the Henry B. Gonzalez Convention Center at 200 E. Market Street. This event is open to the public and the press. More about Alamo First: The 2015 Alamo Region FIRST Robotics Competition is the largest regional youth robotics competition in the United States. Students will compete in head-to-head robotic competitions over the four-day event. Students build and program their own robots against a field of competitors and put into practice science, engineering, technology and innovation. For more information visit alamo-first.org. ###
03.11.2015	Washington, DC – The Department of Health and Human Services announced a grant award which will impact the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. Vida Y Salud-Health Systems, Inc., a community health center in Crystal City, will receive $2.3 million to continue providing primary, quality, comprehensive health care services to its patient population which is located in a rural and medically underserved area. "Access to quality care is a challenge for many across the district and I’m pleased that this grant will help Vida Y Salud as they continue to provide a full range of health care to those in need,” said Congressman Will Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. "Access to primary care is critical as it drives down costs by keeping folks out of the emergency room, and leads to better health outcomes for all patients.” According to Ms. Nora Tellez, CEO of Vida Y Salud Health Systems, Inc., without these funds almost 3,000 patients may not receive health care and 35-50 employees would have to be let go. They would also have to close down one of their school based clinics and stop offering enabling services such as transportation, laboratory, and radiology. “Without this funding, we would have to make substantial cuts to our services,” stated Tellez. “It means the difference between staying open or shutting our doors." ###
03.02.2015	Washington, DC – In response to the scandal which shook up the Department of Veterans Affairs last year, two bills designed to continue to reform the VA passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Long-Term Care Veteran Choice Act will give veterans the ability to transfer to a non-VA medical foster home for long-term health care needs instead of staying in a VA facility. The second bill will allow the VA Secretary to force an employee to repay bonuses, a safeguard against the current practice which rewards bonuses even when the actions of an employee lead to substandard care for veterans. “We still have more work to do to make sure our veterans are getting the health care they deserve, but giving veterans more choice and control when it comes to their health care is the right thing to do,” said Rep. Will Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. “Taking away the bonuses of VA employees who have failed to do their job is common sense. You don’t reward bad behavior, especially when it leads to endangering the lives and health of our veterans." ###
03.02.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd issued an invitation to high school students who reside in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas to enter the annual Artistic Discovery Contest. Every year, Congress holds an art competition to find talented students throughout the country. The winner from each district will have their artwork displayed in the Capitol Building for the following year. “Talent should be recognized and hard work should be awarded. I’m confident that our district is full of talented young people and I’m looking forward to seeing what they send,” said Hurd. Students who are interested in learning more about the contest can visit Rep. Hurd’s website or call his San Antonio District Office at 210-921-3130. Entries will be able to be submitted to his San Antonio office starting Monday, April 6 with a deadline of 5:00 pm CT Wednesday, April 15th. ###
02.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas released the following statement regarding the passage of a one week funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security: “I supported this one week extension to fund DHS in order to protect our country and the jobs of my constituents. We simply cannot afford a lapse in border security at a time that terrorists have declared a war on the West. On a local level, my district covers over 800 miles of Texas-Mexico border, employing thousands of customs agents, border patrol officers, and immigration facilitators. These are hard-working people that put their lives on the line every day to protect the homeland – they deserve to know that at the end of the week, they’ll be able to put food on the table. “I do not support the President’s unlawful executive overreach on amnesty and I will continue to fight to stop it. This bill will help force Senate Democrats to the table to negotiate it, something they have been unwilling to do for weeks.” ###
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture announced that Sutton County and six additional contiguous Texas counties are designated as primary natural disaster areas due to recent drought conditions. These additional counties include Crockett, Edwards, Kimble, Menard, Schleicher and Val Verde. Previously designated primary natural disaster areas in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas include Bexar, Frio, Medina, Uvalde and Zavala counties. “The agriculture industry is a a vital part of the economy in the 23rd Congressional District and the impact of this drought on our families is very real,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-Helotes), who represents each of these counties in Washington. “Families, farms and ranches have struggled in these counties due to this drought and it’s important for them to get any federal assistance they are eligible to receive.” The disaster designation makes farm operators in these counties eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA), including emergency loans. Farmers have eight months to apply for these emergency loans. According to USDA Secretary Thomas Vilsack, local FSA offices can provide additional information. ###
02.25.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Will Hurd was named by Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul to the“Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel”, which will assess America’s efforts to keep terrorists from traveling to the U.S. The bipartisan task force will meet with government agencies, top officials and outside experts to develop policy and legislative solutions to this threat. “During my time in the CIA, I faced our enemies and know the threats they pose to our country,” said Hurd (R-TX), who spent more than 9 years as an undercover officer in nations including Pakistan and Afghanistan. “I believe I bring a unique perspective and experience to this task force and I look forward to working with my colleagues in this bipartisan effort. Homeland security isn’t a Republican cause or a Democrat cause. It’s an American cause." “Thousands of Westerners, including Americans, have traveled overseas to fight with terrorist groups in Syria and Iraq,” said Chairman McCaul (R-TX). "Armed with military training, combat experience, extremist connections and Western passports these individuals pose an exceptionally grave threat to America’s security and are only a plane-flight away from our shores. In recent months, terrorists have struck multiple Western cities, including Copenhagen, Paris, Sydney, Ottawa and beyond. We need to make sure we are doing everything possible to prevent these fighters and other terrorists from traveling to the United States to carrying out more attacks. I am eager for the Task Force to start its work and to provide recommendations on confronting this urgent threat.” Other members include Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., Republican Lead; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D- Calif., Democratic Lead; R-Texas; Rep. Barry Loudermilk, R-Ga., Rep. Martha McSally, R-Ariz.; Rep. Donald Payne, Jr., D-N.J.; Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas; Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Texas. ###
02.24.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Will Hurd of the 23rd Congressional District of Texas released the following statement regarding the President’s veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “The President just vetoed an important step towards American Energy Security, a key component of American National Security. He decided to put special interest supporters ahead of Americans looking for a good-paying job. There’s no excuse for the President’s action and I will continue to work alongside my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to see this popular, bipartisan project completed.” ###
02.23.2015	San Antonio, TX – Congressman Will Hurd, the U.S. Representative for the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, today visited with students at Ronald Reagan High School and Lee High School in San Antonio. After speaking about his background in the CIA and the importance of cybersecurity, he answered questions about national security and other issues facing the nation. “These kids are our future and need to be prepared to address real issues of concern, such as cybersecurity, once they enter the workforce,” said Hurd, who serves at the Chairman of the Information Technology Subcommittee on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “If their questions are any indication of their interest and abilities, I’m confident our future is in good hands.” Hurd heads back to Washington this week to vote on several education bills, including the STEM Education Act that will now designate Computer Science as an important part of STEM education. They will also vote to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, an education reform bill which will return more control back to the school districts and parents. “Education opportunity is a national security issue. My time behind enemy lines while serving in the CIA taught me that our enemies would love nothing more than for the U.S. to lose our cutting edge in innovation. Making sure every child has the opportunity for a quality education will help us ensure America stays on top,” Hurd concluded. ###
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congresman Will Hurd, the U.S. Representative for the 23rd District of Texas, released the following statement following his vote for the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act, encouraging President Barack Obama to sign the legislation into law: “If the President decides to veto this bipartisan legislation, he is standing between Americans and good paying jobs. He is also hampering our movement towards American Energy Security, a key component of American National Security. Six years is long enough — it’s time to complete the Keystone XL Pipeline. "
01.29.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Will Hurd voted in favor of the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act this week, legislation which will benefit the working families in the 23rd Congressional District in Texas. “Bolstering LNG will enhance our American energy security and American national security,” said Hurd, whose district contains much of the Eagle Ford Shale. "When other nations are buying liquefied natural gas from us, they’re not buying it from countries like China or Russia, and that’s a good thing." “This is a great legislation that will help create jobs, slash red tape and grow our economy all at the same time,” Hurd concluded. ###
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed several strongly bipartisan bills focused on ending human trafficking. A roughly $10 billion industry in the United States, Texas trails only behind California with the highest number of reported human trafficking cases. "There is a major lack of awareness that this is happening in our own communities, and the facts are haunting,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX). "With over 800 miles of border within the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, this problem is closer to home than we think. The majority of alien smuggling activity in all of Texas occurs in the Rio Grande Valley, making it more of a priority than ever to secure our porous borders. It is our responsibility as human beings to prevent human exploitation, protect the victims, and punish the offenders." According to a 2011 Department of Justice report, over 80 percent of suspected incidents involve sexual exploitation and half of the victims are children. As cited by the 2014 Texas DPS study on Human Trafficking in Texas, Mexican cartels facilitate, control, or benefit from nearly all human smuggling activity along the Texas-Mexico border. "These bills will implement prevention training programs for government employees, fund care and rehabilitation for victims, and provide necessary resources for law enforcement to identify and destroy organized human trafficking rings,” continued Hurd. "Every parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, and family member should be angry that this is happening in our backyards. For the sake of our nation’s vulnerable, we must work together to put an immediate end to this atrocity." ###
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX) will join other members of Congress on a tour of the southwest border this weekend, led by fellow Texan and Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, Congressman Mike McCaul. With stops in San Diego, California, Sierra Vista, Arizona and McAllen, Texas, the representatives will examine the evolving national security threats to the nation, security at the southwest border, best practices to secure land and sea borders, technology currently deployed at the border and inter-governmental cooperation to secure the U.S. Border. “My time as an undercover CIA officer gives me a unique perspective on border security and the best way to achieve it,” says Hurd, Vice Chairman of the Maritime and Border Security subcommittee for Homeland Security. “It’s not just about building a fence. Our border guards need the best and most applicable technology available and the flexibility to use what’s right for each situation. It’s very important for the folks who are making border security law in Washington to actually see for themselves what it’s like at the border and hear from the brave men and women who protect us every day.” Representative Hurd will host a dinner between his fellow members of Congress and several south and west Texas business owners on Sunday evening, allowing his colleagues to hear directly from local stakeholders about how border security affects safety, commerce and trade along the border. “This issue is so important to the people in my district. Wherever I travel while I’m home people want to know why this problem hasn’t been solved yet. This isn’t a partisan issue,” insists Hurd, “it’s about national security and our economy. I am more than ready to work with my fellow Republicans, my colleagues across the aisle and the President to find common sense solutions that will get the job done.” ###
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the Air Force’s decision to select Joint Base San Antonio as the host base for their Installation and Mission Support Center Headquarters: “This is good news for San Antonio and a fantastic decision by the U.S. Air Force. It says a great deal about the exceptional job being done by those in command at Joint Base San Antonio and I commend them for it. Their reputation and commitment to excellence has led to new jobs for the hardworking families in our area.” The Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center includes jobs related to day to day activities for the Air Force, including civil engineers, personnel, contractors and security forces. The Air Force is predicting that the AF IMSC headquarters will include 350 jobs, with hiring starting this summer. ###
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Representing the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, U.S. Representative Will Hurd released the following statement today in support of the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act: “Our current natural gas pipeline permitting process is a great example of Washington’s bureaucratic morass of red tape. It’s a no-brainer to support legislation that will streamline it and expedite the building of more pipelines. For families and local businesses in my district, more natural gas pipelines means more jobs and lower energy costs. For the nation, it’s another step towards American energy security, an integral part of national security." ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX) released the following statement regarding his vote for the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015: “My job is to lift the heavy, unnecessary burdens that have been placed on the people in my district by the federal government, while making sure that our government operates in a way that promotes job creation and economic growth. I know that local businesses are drowning in a sea of red tape, and this directly effects the paychecks and livelihoods of families in west Texas. These regulations negatively impact the energy and agriculture industries, and also lead to higher energy costs, having an oversized affect on the pocketbooks of lower-income families and those on a fixed income. Requiring unaccountable federal bureaucrats to be more transparent and to increase public participation before issuing these costly regulations is just common sense.” ###
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – El Congresista Republicano por el estado de Texas, Will Hurd, cumpliendo con sus promesa de asegurar nuestra frontera, votara a favor de la propuesta de ley que financiaría al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional y detendría la orden ejecutiva del Presidente Obama, cual sobrepasa su autoridad en cuanto a políticas de inmigración. “Es muy simple - ningún presidente debe implementar políticas de inmigración usando acciones ejecutivas, especialmente, cuando dichas acciones, incentivan la migración ilegal, tal como experimentamos el verano pasado” dijo Hurd, el numero dos del subcomité de seguridad de fronteras y puertos en el departamento de seguridad nacional. “La inmigración legal es una parte importante de nuestra nación y su economía. Sin embargo, cualquier cambio a nuestras políticas migratorias deberían ser acordadas en el Congreso. Tengo la intención y el deseo de trabajar con mis colegas en ambos partidos para encontrar soluciones a nuestro sistema migratorio." Eddie Aldrete, funcionario de la banca y promotor de una reforma migratoria dijo: “La experiencia profesional de Hurd, cuando trabajaba como oficial para la CIA en asuntos consulares, le permite entender de primera mano, como es que tendríamos que mejorar nuestro actual sistema migratorio. Hurd, sabe que la única manera en la que podemos arreglar este problema de raíz, es a través de leyes aprobadas en el Congreso, no ordenes que vienen directamente del Poder Ejecutivo. Necesitamos a alguien como Will, quien luchara por soluciones reales." Jesse Hereford, Jefe del Border Trade Alliance, también se expresó en favor de la decisión de Hurd: “Estamos a favor del voto ejercido por Hurd, autorizando el fondeo del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional. Hurd, entiende que es lo que a los ciudadanos Americanos mas les interesa. Sabe que podemos simultáneamente asegurar nuestra frontera así como facilitar el comercio internacional." Judge Nick Gallegos, Director Ejecutivo del Middle Rio Grande Development Council, dijo: “El Congresista Hurd, entiende la importancia de proteger a los trabajadores Americanos y de la necesitad de hacer más sencillo nuestro actual proceso migratorio. Deseo que tanto el Senado como el Presidente Obama trabajen con Will buscando soluciones para nuestro fallido sistema migratorio." “Este es un asunto con el cual estoy muy familiarizados y tengo la confianza que encontraremos soluciones que protejan a los trabajadores y promuevan desarrollo económico. Nos hemos beneficiado de la fuga de cerebros de otros países en las últimas décadas y deseo que eso continúe. Deseo que nuestra nación se beneficie también de aquellos que desean venir a trabajar duro y que vienen a contribuir a nuestra sociedad. Si esa persona eres tú, queremos que te quedes o que te vengas lo más pronto posible, pero debemos hacerlo correctamente y legalmente,” concluyo Hurd. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. - Working to fulfill his promise to find solutions that will secure our border and enforce our laws, Republican Representative Will Hurd of Texas intends to vote to pass the House appropriations bill that will fund the Department of Homeland Security and stop the President's executive overreach on immigration policy. "It's pretty simple - no President should make immigration policy through executive action, especially when it incentivizes illegal immigration, as we experienced last summer," said Hurd, Vice Chair of the Maritime and Border Security Subcommittee on Homeland Security. "Legal immigrants are a valuable part of our nation and its economy, and any changes to our immigration policy should come from Congress. I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to fix our broken immigration system.” San Antonio banker and immigration reform advocate, Eddie Aldrete, explained, “With Congressman Hurd’s experience handling consular work while he was an undercover officer in the CIA, he knows first-hand how we need to improve our immigration system. He knows that the only true, permanent fix to the immigration problem is through congressional action, not executive orders. We need someone like Will to fight for real solutions.” Jesse Hereford, Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance, voiced his support for Hurd's decision. "We're glad Congressman Hurd is voting for this authorization of DHS. He understands that securing the border and facilitating international commerce can be done simultaneously, and is in the best interest for all Americans." Judge Nick Gallegos, Executive Director of the Middle Rio Grande Development Council, said, “Congressman Hurd gets the importance of protecting the American worker and the need to streamline our legal immigration system. I hope the Senate and the President will work with Will on fixing our broken system.” "This is an issue I know well and I'm confident that we can find a solution that protects the American worker and fosters economic growth. We have benefited from the ‘brain drain’ of every other country for the last couple of decades and I want that to continue. I want our nation to benefit from a ‘hard working drain’ too, so if you are going to be a productive member of our society, let’s keep you here or get you here as quick as possible, but we must do it legally," Hurd concluded. ###
01.09.2015	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX) released the following statement after voting for the passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: "The Keystone XL Pipeline represents three things people in my district are looking for - good paying jobs, lower energy prices and American energy security. There's no reason for us to continue to allow foreign nations to hold us hostage when it comes to energy. That's bad for our families, our men and women in uniform serving across the world, and to our national security interests. Let's do the right thing and get this pipeline built." ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Will Hurd was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Will Hurd was elected to serve as representative of Texas’s 23rd Congressional District. Representative Will Hurd was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
