02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 47, a comprehensive federal lands package, which includes approval for Mill Springs Battlefield to be designated as a National Monument and become part of the National Park System. Congressman Hal Rogers spoke on the House floor about his efforts for nearly three decades to bring southern Kentucky's historic battefield into the NPS. He also successfully secured federal funds to preserve 900-acres of the battleground and to construct a 10,000-square foot educational visitor center and museum on-site. "This is a modern-day victory for our treasured Civil War battleground where history was written in our backyard. The battle at Mill Springs was the Union Army's first major victory in the West, securing Kentucky as part of these United States, and it will finally have the national recognition it deserves," said Congressman Rogers, who voted in support of S. 47. "Enactment of this bill is a testament to the persistent efforts of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) and President Bill Neikirk to preserve this hallowed ground that spans Pulaski and Wayne Counties. It has been an honor to work alongside the MSBA and Leader McConnell to bring this longtime dream to fruition." The MSBA will donate the 900 acres of land and its facilities at Mill Springs to the NPS. The national designation ensures that the Mill Springs Battlefield is protected, preserved and promoted well into the future. The U.S. Senate passed the legislation two weeks ago and now awaits President Trump's signature. Related Press Releases: 2018: Mill Springs Battlefield Clears First Hurdle to Become Part of the NPS 2014: Mill Springs Battlefield Moves Closer to National Status VIDEO: Congressman Rogers Celebrates a New Victory for Mill Springs Battlefield
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding his opposition to the Democrat-led House Resolution, H.J.Res.46, to block President Donald Trump's national emergency declaration at the southern border. “Today, I adamantly opposed the House Democrats’ vote to block President Trump’s emergency declaration to secure our southern border. Our nation’s security is threatened by the violence of drug cartels, the flow of illegal drugs and the heartbreaking reports of human trafficking. And those threats don’t stop at the border - they filter into nearly every American community. In fact, we’ve seen the devastating impact of illegal drugs flooding into our country first-hand in Eastern Kentucky. "Two weeks ago, Congress passed a comprehensive funding bill that provides $1.3 billion for further construction of the southern border wall and additional resources to improve technology and enforce the immigration laws that we already have on the books. However, it’s going to take more than that to address this crisis, so I support the President and his determination to secure our southern border.” Congressman Rogers voted against the measure that passed the House. It now moves on to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019, which was approved by Congress on Thursday to boost border security and fund government operations through the remainder of the fiscal year. The bipartisan funding package includes seven appropriations bills which support critical programs across Southern and Eastern Kentucky, including rural infrastructure, the coal industry, improvements for school safety, protecting the sanctity of life and combating the drug abuse epidemic. The legislation includes vital funding for grant programs that support drug courts, prescription drug monitoring and at-risk youth programs. It also provides for regulatory science, enforcement and innovation activities, as well as Rural Development Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grants to help rural communities address the national opioid crisis. "We've made great strides in recent years in the battle against drug abuse, and this legislation ensures hope for life-saving measures will continue in communities across the country. This funding is comprehensive in scope, addressing needs for prevention in our schools, increasing treatment and recovery opportunities in rural areas, and empowering law enforcement with the tools they need to hold drug dealers accountable," said Congressman Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "While this federal funding package addresses many of our nation's needs, I want to specifically applaud the bipartisan effort of this Congress to prevent, treat and enforce drug abuse issues that are plaguing thousands of families every single day. Together, we are saving lives and preventing abuse." The new law includes the following measures to fight the drug abuse epidemic in Kentucky: Support for Combatting the Drug Epidemic Treatment and Reentry – the bill includes $77 million for drug courts at the Department of Justice to support non-violent offenders in their recovery. An additional $22 million is included for Veterans Treatment Courts to help our men and women in uniform who are struggling with addiction. Both of these accounts are funded at $2 million more than the FY18 enacted level. Offender reentry and research activities under the Second Chance Act are also funded at $87.5 million. Community Prevention – $100 million is approved for the Drug Free Communities Program, which provides funding to community-based groups seeking to prevent youth substance abuse. Support for Federal and Local Drug Enforcement Initiatives $280 million is provided for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program to assist federal, state, and local authorities clean up trafficking hot-spots, which will enable the Appalachian HIDTA to continue its work in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) is funded at $2.6 billion, with $419.5 million specifically allocated to combat the illicit diversion of prescription drugs. $32 million is included for Anti-Heroin Task Forces and $8 million is continued for Anti-Meth Task Forces. Byrne Justice Assistance Grants are funded with $423.5 million, an increase of $8.5 million over the FY18 enacted level. This funding will support all components of the criminal justice system, from drug and gang task forces to domestic violence programs, treatment, and justice information sharing. These funds will go a long way to keep Kentucky safe. International Drug Interdiction – the bill supports President Trump’s “Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand” by increasing funding to help Mexico secure its borders and combat poppy cultivation and heroin, and synthetic drug production; increasing funding to support precursor chemical control; and increasing funding for global demand reduction programs. The bill also directs the Secretary of State to develop an international diplomatic and assistance strategy to stop the flow of opioids into the United States. VIDEO: Congressman Rogers speaks in support of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) voted for a comprehensive federal funding package, which includes a bipartisan agreement on border security and will keep the government fully operational through the remainder of fiscal year 2019. The legislation provides $22.54 billion for border security, including $1.375 billion for 55 new miles of physical barriers along the southwest border, as well as additional measures to enforce current immigration laws. The remaining seven federal funding bills in the package include critical programs to boost economic development across Southern and Eastern Kentucky, enhance rural infrastructure, support the coal industry, combat the drug abuse epidemic, improve school safety and protect the sanctity of human life. The comprehensive deal specifically provides a fourth round of funding for the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Grant Program, championed by Congressman Rogers and Senator Mitch McConnell since 2016, to fast-track reclamation and economic development projects in the heart of coal country where the economy was decimated by the Obama Administration's War on Coal. This legislation provides another $25 million for Kentucky alone, in addition to the previous $80 million that has been secured for AML Pilot projects. "While the challenges at our border have rightly grabbed headlines, the bill also funds a number of other important federal agencies through the end of the fiscal year. Importantly, it ensures that our dedicated public servants can continue to show up to work without fear of losing another paycheck. In my Kentucky district, for example, hundreds of federal prison employees showed up to a dangerous, difficult, often thankless job, for over a month, not knowing when their next check would come. I thank them and am pleased to support this bill that will continue to support the Bureau of Prisons," said Congressman Rogers during a speech on the House floor in support of the legislation. "Also, for Kentucky, this bill continues our momentum in combatting the opioid epidemic by fully supporting community prevention efforts, law enforcement programs to seize illicit and diverted drugs, and drug courts to get people into treatment. This bill also provides $115 million for the AML Pilot Program, which helps create economic development in Appalachian coal communities in six states." The U.S. Senate passed this legislation by a vote of 83-16 and it was approved in the House by 300-128. President Trump is expected to sign it into law, in addition to declaring a national emergency to direct additional resources towards the security crisis at our southern border. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS FOR SOUTHERN AND EASTERN KENTUCKY Economic Development Programs Reclamation of Abandoned Mine Lands – in addition to full support for the annual state AML grant program, an additional $115 million is provided for the continuation of a pilot program successfully implemented in Fiscal Year 2016. This program targets opportunities for reclamation and job creation in struggling coal communities in Appalachia. Kentucky will receive an additional $25 million in grants for reclamation and economic development. Economic Development Administration (EDA) – allocates $304 million for the EDA, an increase of $2.5 million from FY18. $30 million is specifically carved out for EDA’s Assistance to Coal Mining Communities Program, which supports locally-driven efforts to generate job creation, capital investment, workforce development and re-employment opportunities in coal country. Additionally, this legislation encourages the EDA to use these funds to support broadband infrastructure projects and to prioritize these projects in under and unserved areas. Federal Prison System – includes $7.25 billion for Federal Prison System Salaries and Expenses, an increase of $150 million from the FY18 enacted level, to support federal employees at the four federal prisons in our region. It also includes language expressing concern regarding the overcrowded prison populations, and directing the Bureau of Prisons to hire more full-time correctional staff before utilizing the dangerous practice of augmentation. Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) – provides $250 million to promote economic revitalization in low-income communities, level with the FY18 enacted amount. Kentucky-based organizations like Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation and Community Ventures use these funds to help individuals buy homes, start and grow small businesses, as well as fund projects that improve our local communities. The bill also includes funds to offer training to CDFIs serving distressed regions to increase their expertise and capacity to undertake community development finance activities. SBA HubZone Program – includes $3 million to help small businesses in rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities, level with the FY18 enacted amount. National Parks – provides $3.22 billion for the National Park Service, including much-needed funding for park maintenance. These funds will support projects at Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, Cumberland Gap National Historic Park and Mammoth Cave National Park in Kentucky. Battlefield Protection – provides $10 million for the American Battlefield Protection Program, which promotes the preservation of significant historic battlefields associated with wars on American soil. Rural Infrastructure Clean Water and Drinking Water – provides $1.7 billion to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and $1.2 billion for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, which support local drinking water and sewer construction projects. These funding levels represent a $600 million increase from the President’s budget request. It also includes $68 million for Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act grants, $5 million more than FY18. Finally, the bill allocates nearly $2 billion from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) in loans and grants for rural water and waste projects, including funding to help communities of 3,300 or less plan, improve, or manage their water systems. Rural Housing Programs – $25.345 billion is included for the USDA Rural Housing Service, including $25 billion in direct and unsubsidized Section 502 Loans and $28 million for the Housing Repair program. Within HUD, $54 million is provided for the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Program. $1.3 billion is also included for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program to help state and local governments provide affordable housing options to low-income residents. USDA Infrastructure Programs – provides over $2.8 billion for Rural Community Facilities loans and grants, which support the construction of healthcare facilities, town halls, child care centers, police offices, libraries, food pantries and other essential communal infrastructure. The bill also provides $5.5 billion in loans to finance power generation, transmission, and distribution systems and $690 million for telecommunications infrastructure in rural areas. Additionally, there is $550 million in new USDA funding to provide access to high-speed internet services throughout rural America, with preference to areas currently underserved. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) – includes $3.4 billion for grants that provide critical infrastructure funding to states and local communities to address economic development and housing needs. Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Transportation Discretionary Grants – includes $900 million for BUILD grants, with 50% specifically allocated for projects in rural communities. This program was recently used in the Fifth District to help create a cloverleaf intersection at Ky. 80 and Ky. 461. Click here for more information about how this legislation will impact Kentucky. VIDEO: Congressman Rogers spoke on the House floor in support of the FY19 government funding and border security package
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- On behalf of unborn and newborn babies at risk of being terminated, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) lent his voice on the House floor to speak out against late-term abortion and to rally support to better protect abortion survivors. Today, Rogers announced his support of three vital pieces of legislation to protect the most innocent among us, including the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, H.R. 962, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protect Act, H.R. 784 and the Sanctity of Human Life Act, H.R. 305. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would require that an infant who survives an attempted abortion receive appropriate treatment and be transferred to a hospital, and Congressman Rogers spoke against any attempt to end their lives. "I rise today to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves, the souls of our nation’s unborn and newborn children. I have long championed pro-life legislation and initiatives, but recent events have shaken me and millions across our nation – compelling me to address this body," said Congressman Rogers. "The act of abortion is tragic and heartbreaking. However, the termination of human life for abortion survivors is something worse – criminal and subhuman. But proposals exist in our state governments that would allow just that. Allowing an infant to die, or intentionally killing an abortion survivor, is a disgrace and must not be allowed to happen in any circumstance. I echo the calls from Republican Leadership to immediately pass the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, to ensure the sanctity of life remains a fundamental principle in America." House Republicans have requested unanimous consent to consider H.R. 962 every day, but House Democrats have rejected the life-saving measure each time. Republican leaders have vowed to file a petition to force a vote after 30 days. President Trump also called upon this Congress to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protect Act, during his State of the Union address last week. VIDEO: Rep. Rogers speaks about pro-life legislation on the House floor
02.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act, H.R. 840, with Congressman Hal Rogers’ support. The bipartisan legislation directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide child care assistance to eligible veterans receiving medical services at VA facilities. "The Veterans' Access to Child Care Act is a great demonstration of how Congress is supposed to work. Both sides of the aisle came together to support our veterans with young children,” said Congressman Rogers. “Our veterans should never have to choose between receiving the medical attention they need and caring for their children, and this legislation ensures that they will not have to in the future. I hope my friends in the Senate quickly pass this legislation so we can send it to the President.” Following the passage of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010, the VA began carrying out a pilot program to measure the feasibility of providing child care for veterans receiving health and mental health care services from the VA. Because this program has been a great success, Congress has reauthorized and extended this program several times since 2010. H.R. 840, which is supported by veterans service organizations, including the Disabled American Veterans and Veterans of Foreign Wars, will both reauthorize and expand the program to ensure that all veterans have access to child care services while they are receiving medical care. The bill overwhelmingly passed the House by a vote of 400-9 and now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
02.05.2019	Congressman Rogers' Statement on President Trump's State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement following President Donald Trump's State of the Union Address. “The President’s speech tonight is a good reminder that we live in the greatest country in the world, and there is more that unites us than divides us. While more work needs to be done, President Trump’s administration has moved our economy forward, strengthened and accelerated our military, taken unprecedented steps to beat back on the scourge of drug addiction, and helped hard-working Americans keep more of their hard-earned paychecks. I was particularly pleased to hear his commitment to protect the unborn and restore the sanctity of life. I am eager to continue working with President Trump and my colleagues across the aisle to move Eastern Kentucky forward.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers called for compromise during debate on legislation to fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019. He opposed a package of six federal funding bills today, H.R. 648, that fail to provide critical funding for border security. Rogers helped construct the package of funding bills last year as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee; however, he says there is now a "glaring missing piece." "While this legislation addresses many bipartisan concerns, I fear that it has no chance of becoming law in its current form without a compromise on border security. That is truly unfortunate. We are holding up the government; we are causing a lot of people a lot of unnecessary pain and suffering - and we need to get this done," said Rep. Rogers, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. "It is as if we worked together to carefully piece together a complex puzzle and there, right in the middle, is a glaring missing piece. These six bills that we have worked through together are good bills, but we need to find that missing piece and reach a compromise that will fund border security, reopen the government, pay our faithful employees who are now struggling to make ends meet, and get back to the business of serving the American people." On Saturday, President Trump offered a compromise to end the partial government shutdown that was immediately rejected by Democratic congressional leaders even before his public announcement of the deal. VIDEO: Rep. Rogers' remarks regarding H.R. 648
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill today ensuring all furloughed federal employees will be fully compensated when the partial government shutdown ends. On Thursday, the U.S. Senate approved the same bill, S. 24, the Government Employee Fair Treatment Act of 2019. The legislation requires that all employees be paid as soon as possible when the remaining federal agencies reopen. "It is my hope that this bill will at least provide some certainty to federal workers ensuring a full paycheck is eventually coming. However, it is unnecessary to hinge the livelihood of hard-working Americans on border security efforts in Congress. In the past, Democrats have supported southern border control measures similar to those proposed by the President, so I am frustrated by Democratic leadership’s unwillingness to engage on this important issue," said Congressman Rogers. "We need to reopen the government, pay our faithful employees who are now struggling to make ends meet, and get back to the business of serving the American people." Nine federal departments are impacted by the partial shutdown, while the rest remain fully operational. President Trump is expected to sign the bill when it arrives on his desk.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Katelyn Hughes to Washington, DC as part of the University of Kentucky's "WilDCats at the Capitol" Internship Program. She is a 2017 graduate of Grace Academy in London, Kentucky and a Pre-Law student at the University of Kentucky. "It is always a pleasure to support our brightest students, like Katelyn, as they explore public service and government operations in our nation's historic halls of Congress," said Congressman Rogers. "Katelyn has jumped right in, assisting people from across Southern and Eastern Kentucky, while learning the ropes on Capitol Hill. She is a delightful addition to our DC office with a compassionate heart to serve the people of our region." Hughes is a junior at the University of Kentucky, where she is majoring in Sociology with a minor in Psychology. She a Pre-Law student who hopes to become a child advocate attorney working to protect and serve children in Kentucky. “Congressman Rogers has always been a role model to me. I remember learning about him when I was growing up and thinking of him as a Kentucky legend. Having the opportunity to intern in his D.C. office is so amazing," said Hughes. "I’m excited to start this new season of my life in our nation’s capital working for such a respected leader. I’m very happy that God has given me this opportunity to learn and experience new things. Kentucky has a strong voice in Washington and I feel honored to be a small part of it.” Hughes has served as Children's Pastor at Grace Fellowship Church in London, Kentucky since October 2017. To learn how to apply for an internship with Congressman Hal Rogers, visit https://halrogers.house.gov/internships. Congressman Rogers welcomes Katelyn Hughes for a 4-month internship in Washington
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC -- Designating Mill Springs Battlefield as a National Monument remains a priority for both U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) as the 116th Congress gets underway. On Friday, Congressman Rogers filed the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act, H.R. 240, designating the historic Civil War battlefield a national monument and part of the National Park System (NPS). This week, Sen. McConnell's companion legislation will be filed in the Senate, adding strength to the joint initiative to preserve the hallowed ground spanning Wayne and Pulaski counties. "The local Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) has diligently worked to protect this national treasure in southern Kentucky and this designation would be an incredible testament to the association's tireless efforts to secure more than 900 acres of the battlefield for future generations," said Congressman Rogers. "Senator McConnell and I have proudly worked together alongside the MSBA to preserve the battlefield for many years and we are eager to see it become part of the National Park System." “I look forward to continuing our efforts to preserve the history of Mill Springs Battlefield in the new Congress,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. “With Congressman Rogers’ leadership in the House, we are working to designate Mill Springs as a National Monument and enshrine this Civil War battlefield among our country’s most treasured lands. The Union Army’s first significant victory in the West is an important part of the history of Pulaski and Wayne counties, and we will continue to work with our colleagues in Congress and the Trump administration to promote the public education, tourism, and remembrance of this historically significant site for years to come.” Congressman Rogers and Senator McConnell introduced similar legislation last Congress, which was passed by the House and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. They hope to build upon the project's recent momentum. The MSBA plans to donate 900 acres of the battlefield and the on-site $1.7 million, 10,000-square foot visitor center and museum to the NPS. The designation would provide much-needed resources to adequately preserve and maintain the site.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) announcement today to dedicate $300,000 in additional funds to clean up Fishtrap Lake in Pike County, Kentucky. Attracting hundreds of thousands of anglers and sightseers from across the region, Fishtrap Lake is one of the largest lakes in Eastern Kentucky. Each year, however, rainfall and flooding carry incredible amounts of trash and debris into the lake, which float downriver and eventually collect at Fishtrap Dam. This collection of trash at the dam negatively impacts the economic drivers of the community, including tourism and small businesses. With the potential to draw approximately 200,000 visitors annually, the trash at the dam threatens this natural resource and attraction for the region. Kentuckians who live near Fishtrap Lake contacted Senator McConnell and Congressman Rogers about the failure of the Army Corps, which is responsible for managing the lake. The additional funding will be used to expand the Army Corps’ current cleanup activities around the lake. “Today’s announcement by the Army Corps is welcome news for the Fishtrap Lake community because it can restore one of the largest lakes in Eastern Kentucky,” said Senator McConnell. “Hundreds of the thousands of people visit the lake every year to enjoy its fishing and recreational activities. As Senate Majority Leader, I joined with my friend, Congressman Hal Rogers, to contact the Army Corps to help our constituents in Pike County, and I’m glad the agency answered our call to devote the critical resources necessary to help clean up the lake.” “I applaud the Army Corps for dedicating additional funding to clean up debris from Fishtrap Lake and restore its natural beauty,” said Congressman Rogers. “We are also working with our friends in Virginia to mitigate the amount of debris floating downstream across the state border in hopes of minimizing this recurring problem. Senator McConnell and I are always honored to stand with the people of Eastern Kentucky to advocate for improvements across the region.” Earlier this fall, Senator McConnell and Congressman Rogers contacted Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) R.D. James, the head of the Army Corps, regarding the heaps of trash accumulating at the lake and asking for help to clean up Fishtrap Lake. Assistant Secretary James agreed to the McConnell and Rogers requests, devoting $300,000 for cleanup.
12.21.2018	Floyd County Students Win 2018 Congressional App Challenge WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a team of Floyd County students have won the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for the fourth consecutive year. The winning team from the Floyd County Area Techonology Center includes: Bobbie Fisher, Nathaniel Curnette, Dustin Janis and Samuel Carroll. They won the competition by developing the KY Safe Student mobile application. Their winning app will be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building this year, representing Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. During the fall school semester, thousands of high school students coded original apps as part of district-wide competitions hosted by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives for the nation-wide Congressional App Challenge. "This team did a wonderful job of developing an app that could be a vital resource for students across the state. The KY Safe Student app organizes information about potential emergency situations, active threats and how to respond during a crisis. It is a truly viable app that could be implemented by our schools to give students critical information at their fingertips," said Congressman Rogers. "I applaud their ingenuity and diligent work on this concept. We have incredibly talented students in Eastern Kentucky and I'm proud that their ideas will be on display in Washington, DC." The Congressional App Challenge invites winners from across the country to showcase their apps to Members of Congress and members of the tech community at House of Code, a reception on Capitol Hill that will be held in 2019. "We had a brand new app team this year. They did fantastic! They picked up on the coding quickly and chose an app topic that benefits their community," said Dr. Jeff M. Shannon, IT Teacher for Floyd County Area Technology Center. "I'm incredibly proud of them." "Being a part of the Congressional App Challenge made me feel more successful and I always look forward to going to the meetings and programming," said Bobbie Fisher, a member of the winning team. "This experience will help me with college and how to code for a living," said Nathaniel Curnutte, a member of the winning team. "I hope this app will help students be safe and maintain a safe, positive lifestyle," said Samuel Carroll, a member of the winning team. The students' work will be featured for one year in the U.S. Capitol Building and online at https://House.gov. The winning students will also receive $250 each in Amazon Web Service Credits and one travel voucher from Southwest Airlines to attend the House of Code reception in Washington, DC. To participate in next year's Congressional App Challenge, stay updated at https://halrogers.house.gov and on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. Visit CongressionalAppChallenge.us to learn more about the annual competition.
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauds the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate for approving the bipartisan Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018,H.R. 2, also known as the Farm Bill. The legislation was approved by both chambers on Wednesday to improve rural water systems, provide stability for Kentucky farmers, protect the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and invest in rural broadband development through 2023. "The Farm Bill provides important investments for infrastructure projects, like access to broadband and clean water in rural America. It also strengthens the nation's flagship nutrition program, while boosting workforce development and addiction treatment resources," said Congressman Rogers. "This legislation modernizes the SNAP program in a way that helps participants get back on their feet, while preserving resources for the most vulnerable among us who can't afford basic necessities. It also strengthens the farm safety net, cuts burdensome red tape and supports future farmers." "I'm pleased that this bill invests in broadband development, working in concert with our vision for Kentucky Wired, which will provide connectivity to every county in the state, starting with Eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. The Farm Bill also directs the U.S. Department of Agriculture to prioritize Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) assistance for producers striving to stabilize water resources and cost-share practices, which improve drought resiliency and agricultural productivity. FARM BILL HIGHLIGHTS Rural Water Systems: Prioritizes help for rural water systems by increasing water and wastewater program funding by $5 million annually for the next five years. Sets aside funding within the Community Facilities program for communities with 20,000 people or less. Reserves $4 billion in conservation funding over 10 years for source water protection. Broadband: Increases broadband loan, loan guarantee, and grant funding to $350M and raises the minimum acceptable level of broadband service in rural areas from 4 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream to 25/3 Mbps. Authorizes $50 million annually for Community Connect grants and $10 million annually for grants, loans and loan guarantees for middle mile infrastructure for rural areas. Reserves $10 million annually for the “Innovative Broadband Advancement Program”, which provides grants, loans and loan guarantees to demonstrate innovative broadband technologies or methods of broadband deployment that significantly decrease cost and provide faster broadband speeds. The legislation now moves to the President's desk for his signature.
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced today that Pulaski County has been awarded $25 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) “Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development” (BUILD) grant program. Senator McConnell contacted the Assistant Secretary of Transportation in support of Pulaski County’s competitive federal grant application. According to Pulaski County officials, this grant funding will be utilized to improve safety conditions at the intersection of KY 80 and KY 461 for the more than four million visitors to Lake Cumberland each year. This intersection, which is a critical gateway to Lake Cumberland’s economy, is in desperate need of safety improvements. Specifically, the project will construct a grade-separated intersection and expand KY 461 to four lanes. These improvements will increase capacity and allow for more economic development along this vital access-point for the Lake Cumberland region. “The Lake Cumberland region is one of Kentucky’s most treasured destinations, and I was proud to work with Pulaski County to deliver these critical resources to promote traffic safety and encourage economic development,” said Senator McConnell. “As Senate Majority Leader, I made it a priority to secure increased infrastructure grant funding in the hopes that more Kentucky communities would be able to benefit from these resources. When the county asked for my help, I strongly advocate for its needs in Washington. I look forward to the new opportunities for growth in this region, and I am glad to work with Congressman Rogers to help continue bringing resources to Kentucky.” “The safety and transportation improvements resulting from this road project will have a regional impact, saving lives at a dangerous intersection that is heavily traveled, providing better access to a high-tech regional industrial park, and paving the way for future development of the northern bypass,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “I commend the local leaders who diligently advocated for a road project of this magnitude. It is a great example of successful local, state and federal partnerships for economic development. As always, it is a pleasure for Senator McConnell and I to collaborate with the good people of southern and eastern Kentucky to make this region a better place to live.”
12.03.2018	SOMERSET, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced today that the new University Center of Southern Kentucky (UCSK) will open with the fall semester of 2019 on the campus of Somerset Community College (SCC). Rogers launched the initiative with Dr. Jay Box, President of the Kentucky Community and Technical College System; Dr. Carey Castle, President and CEO of Somerset Community College; and local community leaders in the Lake Cumberland region. The University Center of Southern Kentucky, described by Congressman Rogers as a "multi-versity" for student success, will provide several pathways and delivery methods for students to earn a four-year degree from partnering universities in Kentucky on the campus of Somerset Community College. After completing a two-year degree at SCC, students will be able to choose from the partnering university of their choice and have access to student support services to complete a four-year bachelor's degree at the Somerset campus. Partnering universities and baccalaureate programs will be announced in the near future. "The one thing missing from the Lake Cumberland region is the option for students to get an affordable bachelor's degree. Now spring graduates in May 2019 will have the option to stay here at home to get a four-year degree at an affordable rate. I applaud Dr. Castle and Dr. Box for working directly with some of the largest public universities in Kentucky to make that dream a reality," said Congressman Rogers. "Instead of a uni-versity, we're calling this center a multi-versity, because students will be able to choose which university offers the best degree for their career path without leaving Somerset. Opening new doors of opportunity for education here at home is a key factor to ending the out-migration of our best and brightest students." “As I travel around the state, I hear a common refrain from Kentucky students. They want opportunities to live and work in their home communities while pursuing their post-secondary education,” said Gov. Bevin. “SCC’s University Center, in coordination with other Kentucky universities, will provide these opportunities by creating new pathways for students to obtain a degree of their choice while enrolled at the Somerset campus. I applaud the leadership of Congressman Rogers, Dr. Box, and SCC administrators for developing this innovative program to benefit students in the Lake Cumberland region and beyond.” Dr. Castle named Mr. Trent Pool as the new UCSK Director to incorporate programming and workforce needs in the region as university partnerships develop. Pool lives in London and has been with Somerset Community College for 16 years. He most recently served as the advising center coordinator for the SCC Laurel Campus. “The drive to succeed doesn’t have to involve driving great distances to obtain a bachelors’ degree. You will now be able to get your degree in Somerset at the university center,” said Dr. Castle. “It is a mix of institutions that are complementary and different. I think the opportunities are going to be great for this region.” "This center is a win-win for students in the Somerset area because it will allow them to get a four-year degree right in their own backyard and save money at the same time by getting the first two years of their degree at SCC," said Dr. Box. "I applaud Congressman Rogers' leadership in making this partnership happen." Prior to the announcement, a group of approximately 100 leaders from the Lake Cumberland region met on campus to discuss support and guidance for UCSK, establishing the university center's Founder's Club. The club elected the following leaders: Chairman Bill Turpen of Somerset, Vice-Chair Paula Thompson of London and Secretary Cindy Clouse of Somerset. More details about UCSK are expected to be announced in early 2019.
12.01.2018	"President George H.W. Bush was one of America’s most beloved leaders and the epitome of public service. "He was a personal friend and a political mentor, never neglecting time to enjoy life and helping others do the same. "He was an American hero and a brilliant strategist who courageously defended our country and the conservative values we hold so dear. "My wife, Cynthia, and I join the Nation in mourning the loss of President George H.W. Bush, as we celebrate his accomplished life and the legacy he leaves behind." #####
11.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the 2019 Work Plan released today by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which includes multiple projects in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The plan includes critical water and wastewater expansion, tourism development, environmental clean-up efforts and flood control projects in Kentucky's Appalachian region. The Army Corps' plan is directly funded by one of the federal funding packages passed this fall by Congress for fiscal year 2019. Congressman Rogers, who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, voted in support of the funding for the Army Corps. "The Army Corps provides vital work for our rural communities every year, protecting Southern and Eastern Kentuckians from future flood damage, improving basic infrastructure needs in our mountainous region and boosting economic development in our small counties," said Congressman Rogers. "Each year, I have the opportunity to advocate for important projects in our region and I applaud the Army Corps for aligning its priorities with those of Eastern Kentucky. This year, I was especially proud to work with Corps leadership to help secure additional funding to bolster efforts to remove debris and trash from Fishtrap Lake - an issue that has plagued the Fishtrap area for far too long. Together, we are making significant progress in our communities." The 2019 Work Plan includes the following projects in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District: $1.869 million for water and sewer projects as part of the Southern and Eastern Kentucky Environmental Infrastructure Program (Section 531); $300,000 for additional debris clean-up efforts at Fishtrap Lake; $9.8 million for several other nonstructural flood control projects (Section 202), such as relocation, elevation, floodproofing and restoration of wetlands. The plan includes $5.5 million for Harlan County, $4 million for Pike County and $300,000 for Bell County. To review the entire 2019 Work Plan, visit usace.army.mil. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook.
10.25.2018	LONDON, Ky. -- A new 500,000 gallon elevated water tank will soon be built in Laurel County thanks to a $1.3 million grant awarded by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the grant award during a ground breaking ceremony at Laurel County's new Greer Industrial Park. The water tower will support future businesses at the industrial park, as well as approximately 375 current businesses in the community, and more than 5,600 homes in the area. "When prospective businesses are looking for a place to create jobs, we must have the land, water and other utilities available to demonstrate that we are ready and able to support their work," said Congressman Rogers. "I want to applaud Laurel County Judge Executive David Westerfield, London Mayor Troy Rudder and Paula Thompson, executive director of the local industrial authority, for having the foresight to advocate for this new water tower and prepare for future growth." In addition to funding for the water tower, Sandy Dunahoo, Commissioner for the Kentucky Department of Local Government announced the park will become one of Kentucky's Build Ready Sites for prospective businesses. “Kentucky is achieving record new business and job growth. Investment in solid infrastructure expansion projects will ensure that Laurel County is a competitive force in attracting new jobs to Kentucky,” said Commissioner Dunahoo. The project was previously awarded funding for waterlines from the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD) in Kentucky. "Without this infrastructure in place, we would not be able to give our young people the jobs and training they need to be able to stay here in our region to work and give back to their communities," said Hilda Legg, Kentucky Director of USDA-RD. "For every dollar we invest, four more dollars are generated in the community. We want to help you be innovative and grow this local economy even more." "Over the last two weeks, I’ve been all across our region, and I’ve had the privilege to announce nearly $10 million in federal funding for infrastructure projects and economic development at industrial sites for your neighbors in the East – including Harlan, Perry, and Carter Counties," said Rogers. "It’s important that we survey the entire region when we’re working to recruit new business and industry. We are not competing with one another – our true competition is outside of Kentucky." Construction of the new water tower is expected to begin in Spring 2019. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook. Congressman Rogers joins state and local officials to break ground on Laurel County's new Water Tower Congressman Rogers announces a $1.3 million grant for Laurel County's new water tower
10.22.2018	STANFORD, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) served as the keynote speaker on Monday at the Lincoln County Chamber of Commerce meeting before a gathering of nearly 100 people at the Dix River Country Club in Stanford. Rogers provided an update about his work in Washington and across Southern and Eastern Kentucky. "We're already seeing impressive results from our Tax Reform law. Unemployment is at its lowest in decades and job openings are at a record high nation-wide. Paychecks are growing, wages are rising and benefits are improving. In fact, Southern and Eastern Kentucky families will take home an average of $2,000 more in their paychecks than last year," said Rogers. "The law also includes Opportunity Zone designations to boost economic development through tax incentives for job creation in low-income areas, and Lincoln County is included in Kentucky's certified designations." During his remarks, Rogers applauded State Sen. Rick Girdler and State Rep. David Meade for their work in the state legislature to get the widening of US Highway 27 back on track. Rogers secured federal funding for the transportation project several years ago. He advocated for the completion of the state's largest public works project, KentuckyWired, which is underway to connect high-speed, high-capacity broadband in every county in Kentucky. "Right now, we're nearly dead last in the country for broadband connectivity, but KentuckyWired will catapult us to the top of the list, opening the door for global competition. We aren't even in the game without it," said Rogers. "Broadband is a forum for the future. It's a way for us to utilize our intellectual fire power to generate new opportunities and attract new high-tech industry. And it will be extended right here in Lincoln County." Expanding broadband access in the region was one of the first ideas generated by the Center for Rural Development and SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region, a non-profit organization cofounded by Congressman Rogers to help revitalize Southern and Eastern Kentucky's rural economy. Rogers encouraged Lincoln Countians to be a part of the SOAR organization. "We need your ingenuity and your help to reimagine our future and make our home a better place to live," said Rogers. For more information about SOAR, visit thereisfuture.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook.
10.22.2018	HAZARD, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers joined state and local officials in Hazard on Tuesday to celebrate job growth, infrastructure improvements and expanded access to specialized care for cancer patients. Hazard Community and Technical College hosted a ribbon-cutting celebration for its newest tenant in the Digital Careers Now hub for high-tech workforce training. General Dynamics, a global aerospace and defense company, will occupy the new hub to employ and train 42 people who will operate a call center for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. "Their work for USCIS will be vital to national security, as the number of pending applications for citizenship has more than doubled over the past four and a half years, generating a backlog of cases," said Rogers during the event. "Now, folks right here in Hazard will be on the frontlines, taking calls and answering questions about citizenship and immigration." Congressman Rogers was also a keynote speaker during the grand opening of the new Appalachian Regional Healthcare (ARH) Cancer Center in Hazard. "There is no place better suited for a state-of-the-art facility dedicated to cancer patients, than right here in the heart of Kentucky’s Appalachian Region where our people suffer from cancer death rates that are 35% higher than the rest of the nation," said Rogers, who continues to advocate for more federal funding to battle cancer and assist patients. "It’s the moments of extreme illness in between treatments, and the on-going battle with depression and fear that can be overwhelming to cancer patients and families. A building won’t change that, but the heart of these doctors and nurses can. Now, they will be right here in mountains, rather than hours away – and that makes an impact on the entire family." The Alzheimer's Association of Kentucky and Bluegrass Care Navigators also hosted a reception at the Paul E. Patton East Kentucky Veterans Center to thank Congressman Rogers for supporting federal legislation and appropriations for Alzheimer's-related issues. "I appreciate your kindness, but it takes all of us working together to support families impacted by Alzheimer’s disease," said Rogers. "Kentucky lost over 1,700 individuals to Alzheimer’s disease in 2017 – nearly 50% higher than the number lost in 2005 – and high enough to put it in the Centers for Disease Control’s second highest death rate tier, nationally." Governor Bevin joined Congressman Rogers at the Coal Fields Regional Industrial Park to break ground on a new natural gas line for prospective businesses. Bevin and Rogers recently announced a $900,000 Abandoned Mine Lands Pilot grant for the project, which has also been awarded a $1.4 million grant from the Economic Development Administration, with a local match from the City of Hazard totaling $32,000. "We have to let the world know that we have the best workforce in the country! We can do everything from call center operations, to high-tech digital work, to telemedicine, to new age manufacturing," said Rogers. "I want to applaud local leaders for the visionary work that is ramping up in Hazard. Preparing this industrial site for growth is a big step forward. Access to utilities and broadband is critical for businesses to locate in our industrial parks." Rogers presented Mike Miller with a Congressional Record tribute during the event to commemorate his recent retirement after dedicating nearly 20 years as Executive Director of the Kentucky River Area Development District. "Mike is the type of leader who gets things done and doesn’t care who gets the credit. He sometimes leads quietly, but always effectively. As the former Mayor of Jackson and a former business owner, Mike understands, first-hand, the challenges that we face in our rural communities, but he has always pressed on and stood strong for this region," said Rogers. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook.
10.18.2018	BENHAM, Ky. – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Governor Matt Bevin today announced a $2.55 million Abandoned Mine Lands Pilot Grant to restore and enhance the Portal 31 Exhibition Mine and create a scenic overlook and parking area at Black Mountain. The Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet’s Division of Abandoned Mine Lands awarded the grant to Harlan County Fiscal Court as part of the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. The project will involve refurbishing the electronics and controls of animated figures, upgrading audiovisual systems, lighting, and control functions of the Exhibition Mine Tour, and fixing drainage in the exhibition mine tunnels and making structural repairs to tunnel roof structures. In addition, adjacent mine areas will be cleaned to accommodate a new walking tour and an additional mantrip vehicle will be purchased. The Black Mountain portion of the project will create a new parking area with a scenic overlook, which will lead to a new walking trail that will take visitors to the overlook at the summit of Black Mountain - the highest natural point in Kentucky. A proposed 40-foot –high observation tower will provide a scenic view of Kentucky and Virginia. The Lynch Bathhouse and administrative building adjacent to Portal 31 will be renovated to increase office space. The renovation also will provide space for a planned dulcimer factory and other crafts, a planned coffee roasting company, and enlarge an existing mushroom growing operation. Congressman Rogers and Governor Bevin announced the grant Thursday at Benham Schoolhouse Inn, Benham, KY. “We need to tell our story and celebrate our history in Eastern Kentucky on a larger scale, and this grant will highlight the rich heritage of coal production and the beauty of our mountains in Harlan County,” said Congressman Rogers, who has championed $80 million in federal funding for Kentucky through the AML Pilot Program since 2016, alongside U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY). “We need to cultivate our tourism economy on a broader spectrum by improving and marketing the qualities that make our region so unique, like Portal 31 and the highest point in Kentucky on Black Mountain. Thanks to the hard-working and resilient people of Harlan County, the future for our rural economy looks brighter every day.” In addition to the AML Pilot Grant, the project has received $650,000 local in-kind funds. When completed, it is expected to create 20 new permanent jobs and increase visitors to Lynch, KY and the surrounding area by 40 percent. “When it was built more than 100 years ago, Lynch was the largest coal camp in the world, and the newly-announced resources will help restore and preserve this unique part of Kentucky’s history,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and a key negotiator in securing the funding for this program. “In addition to its benefits for the local tourism industry, the Portal 31 Exhibition Mine displays both the historical significance and natural beauty of Appalachian coal country. I proudly join Congressman Rogers in strong support of the AML Pilot grants to encourage economic revitalization and new jobs to Eastern Kentucky, and I look forward to the success of this project.” “This significant AML investment will enhance tourism and economic development opportunities in Southeast Kentucky,” said Gov. Bevin. “These grant funds will enable Harlan County to showcase to visitors the region’s rich mining history as well as the scenic natural beauty of Black Mountain — the highest point within the Commonwealth.” Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely said restoration of the mine tour is worthwhile because,not only does it draw upon Kentucky’s rich,mining culture, it shows how the region is transforming itself. “I am pleased that this Cabinet is able to be a significant part of the region’s recovery through this grant,” Secretary Snavely said. The AML Pilot Program, funded through the U.S. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE), is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR Initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands.
10.17.2018	$4 Million Abandoned Mine Lands Pilot Grant Announced for EastPark Industrial Park ASHLAND, Ky. – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Governor Matt Bevin today announced a $4 million Abandoned Mine Lands Pilot Grant to do site preparation work at the EastPark Industrial Park. The grant was awarded by the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet’s Division of Abandoned Mine Lands to Northeast Kentucky Regional Industrial Park Authority (EastPark), as part of the 2017 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. The project will involve installing a grid of aggregate and concrete support piers and columns on a 300-acre site that will support the weight of the planned, 2.5 million square-foot, Braidy Industries aluminum rolling mill that will produce material mainly for the automotive industry. Congressman Rogers announced the grant Wednesday at an event at EastPark, the Northeast Kentucky Regional Industrial Park Authority’s 1,000-acre, multi-use business park near Ashland and Grayson, Kentucky. “The northeastern region is thriving with new innovative opportunities and this grant supports Braidy Industries’ plans to provide jobs to our highly skilled, readily available workforce. It also paves the way for future economy development opportunities and helps us reimagine Kentucky’s Appalachian region as a major manufacturing hub,” said Congressman Rogers, who has championed $80 million in federal funding for Kentucky through the AML Pilot Program since 2016, alongside U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY). “The AML Pilot grant program supports the worthy goal of spurring new economic growth and bringing jobs to Eastern Kentucky, and I am proud to work with Congressman Hal Rogers to continue bringing these resources to our state,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and a key negotiator in securing funding for this program. “I look forward to seeing the positive impact EastPark can have on the surrounding communities and the workers there, and I am hopeful that this site will help attract additional future investments to the region.” EastPark is the creation of Boyd, Carter, Elliott, Greenup and Lawrence County governments and the Commonwealth of Kentucky and hosts businesses that employ 1,076 people. “This significant AML investment will enhance tourism and economic development opportunities in Southeast Kentucky,” said Gov. Bevin. “These grant funds will enable Harlan County to showcase to visitors the region’s rich mining history as well as the scenic natural beauty of Black Mountain — the highest point within the Commonwealth.” “As someone who worked in the coal industry in this part of the county, I am especially pleased that this Cabinet is able to be a significant part of the region’s recovery through this grant,” said Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely. The AML Pilot Program, funded through the U.S. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE), is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR Initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands.
10.17.2018	LOUISA, Ky — Pregnant women with substance use disorders now have a new resource in Eastern Kentucky for recovery. U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined state and local leaders in Louisa on Thursday morning for a ribbon-cutting celebration for Karen’s Place Maternity Center operated by Addiction Recovery Care. “Every month, there are more than 100 new cases of infants born with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) in Kentucky. That's why this new maternity center is so vital. It gives pregnant women who struggle with addiction, the support they need to give birth to healthy babies. I'm so proud of the mothers here who have the courage to battle through this disease for their own health and for the sake of their children," said Congressman Rogers. "This facility is an anchor of hope for so many women in our region.” Since Karen’s Place Maternity Center opened, 33 of 42 infants born to residents of the facility have spent five days or less in the hospital after delivery. Meanwhile, infants who suffer from withdrawals spend an average of 20 days in neonatal intensive care units (NICU). “Welcome to a place where mothers can be loved back to life and where babies don’t have to be born with NAS or developmental disabilities,” said Tim Robinson, President and CEO of Addiction Recovery Care. “Thanks to the mission arm of the National Association of the Freewill Baptist Church, we were able to furnish and renovate this facility much quicker than we could have otherwise.” Support from the Freewill Baptist organization will also help expand capacity at other recovery facilities owned by Addiction Recovery Care. Nearly 450 people now work for Addiction Recovery Care - half of those are in recovery, while one-third are graduates. “My daughter found me overdosed when she was six years old. I’ve done an 18-month stretch in county jail and I’ve been to rehab four or five times. The last time I went to jail, I was pregnant. I kept saying I would quit tomorrow, but I couldn’t quit. I came to Karen’s Place and my life changed. God has done amazing things in my life. I got a UNITE voucher to stay 100 more days and my second daughter was born free of addiction,” said Toddra Hamilton, one of the first graduates at Karen’s Place who now works as a Peer Support Specialist. “Today, I can be a light to my kids. Yes, I struggled with addiction, but I beat it! I will be two years clean in January.” “What got us started was Operation UNITE and not just us, but facilities across the region have been established because of the seed they planted. Congressman Rogers saw the need 15 years ago.” said Tim Robinson. “Addiction is losing,” said Matt Brown, Chief of Staff for Addiction Recovery Care. “Folks are coming from crisis to career, just like me.” President Trump declared October as National Substance Abuse Prevention Month.
10.16.2018	MOREHEAD, Ky. -- In an effort to address healthcare workforce needs in Kentucky's Appalachian Region, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) convened a roundtable discussion at Morehead State University on Tuesday with leaders from all of the region's hospitals and post-secondary education institutions. Rogers invited several federal agency leaders to listen and offer expertise for available grant opportunities, including: Tim Thomas, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC); Pamela Farmer, Kentucky Economic Development Representative for the Economic Development Administration; and Clay McKnight, Kentucky Area Specialist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development. "I have been approached by more than one of you indicating that you can’t find the staff you need to efficiently run your hospitals," said Congressman Rogers. "I understand travel nurses cost some of you millions of dollars each year, so I am wondering why we can’t train more healthcare staff in our own Eastern Kentucky educational institutions. Economic Development is not just about building factories and improving infrastructure. Economic Development is also growing our local workforce." "I currently have 184 openings at the hospital that I’m trying to fill," said Donovan Blackburn, President and CEO of Pikeville Medical Center. "We are trying to fill the need, but unfortunately, it’s just not fast enough. We’re providing bonuses and pushing salaries up just to try to fill these jobs." Neil Middleton, Vice President and General Manager of WYMT-TV moderated the discussion and asked educators about their successes and what more they need to help generate more graduates in health-related fields. "As your equipment changes in your hospital and care systems, so do we, in preparing our students for your institutions," said Dr. Jay Morgan, President of Morehead State University who hosted the roundtable discussion. "If there is one thing that our federal agencies can help with in our communities, it’s our equipment." The Galen College of Nursing recently opened a campus in Hazard, Kentucky after developing a partnership with Appalachian Regional Healthcare (ARH) and local government leaders. Dr. Audria Denker led development of the new Hazard campus for Galen College and said more communication between the two industries is key. "Kentucky can actually be a leader in nursing education. I have 240 nursing students in Hazard, Kentucky today who will graduate with no debt," said Dr. Denker. "The students are able to integrate into the ARH culture before they ever graduate." Some educators said finding qualified faculty to educate nursing students can also be a challenge. "For us, the nursing program challenge is finding more qualified faculty," said Dr. Jay Box, President and CEO of Kentucky Community and Technical Colleges. "We're very interested in a joint appointment. Our healthcare professors work for the colleges for nine months during the school year, and they often look for work at our hospitals during their three-month break. If we could establish a joint appointment for them during those three months, it would give us the opportunity to add the faculty we need, while sending back professionals to fill the hospital shortages." In addition to college graduates, some leaders suggested reaching more students during middle and high school to capture their interest in healthcare fields. The federal agency leaders offered to help the organizations navigate programs that could benefit the healthcare workforce and boost economic development in our region. "It’s great to hear from the people on the ground who are doing the work first-hand. It hits right at the very heart of ARC's mission to improve our Appalachian region and build a stronger workforce," said Mr. Thomas, who asked about future investment needs in the field. Congressman Rogers wrapped up the meeting with a call to action for SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region and Executive Director Jared Arnett to lead an action team to focus on implementing programs and opportunities to advance workforce needs for the healthcare industry in Eastern Kentucky. Following the roundtable discussion, Congressman Rogers and Tim Thomas addressed MSU students, faculty and community leaders at the first-ever "W. Terry McBrayer Presidential Lecture Series" on campus. They shared their vision for the future of Appalachia. Roundtable participants from the healthcare industry included: Joe Grossman, CEO of Appalachian Regional Healthcare; John Ballard, CEO of Kentucky River Medical Center; Donovan Blackburn, CEO of Pikeville Medical Center; Anthony Powers, President of Baptist Health Corbin; Chris Self, CEO of Manchester Memorial Hospital; Kristie Whitlatch, CEO of Kings Daughters Medical Center; Mark Neff, CEO of St. Claire Medical Center; Matt Harr, COO of Highlands Health Systems; Greg Kiser, CEO of Three Rivers Medical Center; Stephen Oneal, Chief Nursing Officer of Saint Joseph London; Steve Estes, CEO of Rockcastle Regional Hospital; and Mike Rust, Executive Director of Kentucky Rural Hospital Association. Educators who participated in the rountable included: Dr. Jay Morgan, President of Morehead State University; Dr. Burton Webb, President of University of Pikeville; Dr. Chris Leskiw, Vice President and Chief Academic Officer of the University of the Cumberlands; Dr. Marcia Hawkins, President of Union College; Dr. Audria Denker, Executive Vice President of Galen College of Nursing; Dr. Jay Box, President of Kentucky Community & Technical College; Dr. Sherry Zylka, President of Big Sandy Community & Technical College; Dr. Jennifer Lindon, President of Hazard Community & Technical College; Dr. Vic Adams, President of Southeast Community & Technical College; Dr. Steve Vacik, President of Maysville Community and Technical College; Dr. Larry Ferguson, President of Ashland Community and Technical College; and Dr. Carey Castle, President of Somerset Community College. Congressman Rogers Convened an Eastern Kentucky Healthcare Workforce Roundtable Discussion Eastern Kentucky Healthcare Workforce Roundtable Discussion Dr. Jay Morgan, Terry McBrayer, Tim Thomas, Rep. Hal Rogers at the Lecture Series
10.09.2018	STEARNS, Ky. – Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced up to 350 new jobs will be created over the next 10 years in McCreary County. The U.S. Army has selected Fibrotex USA, in partnership with Outdoor Ventures Corporation (OVC), to produce next generation state-of-the-art camouflage netting for the military over the next decade in Stearns, Kentucky. "We have the best workforce in the country and OVC will soon make room next door for the hundreds of new jobs that our people have earned through hard work and dedication for this new military contract in McCreary County," said Congressman Rogers. "I take great pride in knowing that our people are using their talents to make products for our warfighters and our allied forces." "This is an important long-term partnership that we are building in McCreary County to supply products directly to the Army. I anticipate this friendship will far exceed the next decade," said J.C. Egnew, Chairman, President and Contracts Administrator for OVC. "Our friends at Fibrotex will retrofit the former Monticello Manufacturing building next door to OVC and will build a brand new 50,000 square feet manufacturing facility. Fibrotex will manufacture the specialized Ultra Lightweight Camouflage Netting that OVC will use to produce the final system to protect military personnel and equipment." “This is a significant accomplishment for the company," said Eyal Malleron, the CEO of Fibrotex USA. "We are excited to bring the latest technological advances in multi-spectral camouflage applications to the U.S. Army and look forward to working closely with our partners, OVC. We believe that this is only the beginning of what we, together with OVC, plan to accomplish.” The signature management system not only uses camouflage to hide our troops during daylight hours, but also conceals them from detection by night-vision, thermal imaging devices and other battlefield sensors. "This news, along with our recent tourism-related grant announcements for the Historic Stearns Downtown Revitalization, is another great step forward as we work together to grow and diversify the economy in our region.” said Congressman Rogers. Egnew says OVC and Fibrotex USA plan to start production in the summer of 2019 to fulfill the Army's competitive contract award. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook.
10.04.2018	STEARNS, Ky. – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Governor Matt Bevin today announced a $1.1 million Abandoned Mine Lands grant to renovate and revitalize Stearns, KY and construct railroad-related repairs and improvements to the Big South Fork Scenic Railway. The grant was awarded by the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet’s Division of Abandoned Mine Lands to McCreary County Heritage Foundation, Inc., as part of the 2017 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. The project will involve improvements to the town’s historic district that will include construction of a restaurant and reconstruction of a theater. Historic Stearns Coal & Lumber Company stores will be rehabbed and repurposed into museums and a visitor center. And the former company headquarters will be converted into a bed and breakfast. Railway improvements will include tie and trace replacement, drainage improvements, steam engine and diesel engine locomotive repairs, railyard/repair shop refurbishment, the purchase of a backup diesel engine and walking/ATV trail construction to the Yamacraw Bridge. Congressman Rogers announced the grant Thursday at an event in Stearns, Ky. “Stearns was once a major hub for coal and lumber exports, and helped build a stronger economy in Southern Kentucky. This project will breathe life back into this historic town by investing in our story and tourism in our unique region,” said Congressman Rogers, who has championed $80 million in federal funding for Kentucky through the AML Pilot program since 2016, alongside U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY). “The AML Pilot grants are designed to revitalize our former coal towns and help diversify our economy. This project is a great example of how we can highlight our past and help pave a new path for our future.” In addition to the AML pilot grant, the Heritage Foundation has received a $2 million U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant with support from Senator McConnell and Congressman Rogers. “With these two federal grant awards, the Stearns community can revitalize some of Kentucky’s treasured locations, particularly those listed on the National Register of Historic Places,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who contacted the Trump administration in support of the federal grant announced today. “As a member of the subcommittee that funds the AML pilot program, I am proud to join Congressman Rogers to champion it each year in the appropriations process.” “The grants awarded through this pilot program have had a number of positive impacts in Eastern Kentucky. In this historic coal community, an injection of federal funding to renovate the Big South Fork Scenic Railway can help increase tourism and spur economic growth in the region. I commend the work of these Kentuckians to restore the beauty of these heritage sites, and I remain committed to partnering with Governor Bevin, Secretary Snavely and Congressman Rogers to support investments in Appalachia.” The U.S. Department of Agriculture—Rural Development has also awarded the project a $100,000 Rural Business Enterprise Grant. Stearns, KY and the Big South Fork Scenic Railway are significant tourist attractions. The town of Stearns was built in the early 1900s by the Stearns Coal & Lumber Company to serve as the hub of a logging and mining empire that would control over 200 square miles of land, build the Kentucky & Tennessee Railway, erect the first all-electric sawmill in the U.S., and employ over 2,200 people living and working in 18 coal and lumber camps. “This AML investment will assist with important revitalization efforts contributing to economic growth in the Stearns community,” said Gov. Bevin. “McCreary County is a beautiful part of Kentucky and offers a truly unique combination of outdoor recreation and historical opportunities. This funding will promote increased tourism activities to attract new visitors and development to the region.” The Big South Fork Scenic Railway attracts on average 30,000 visitors a year, while approximately 600,000 visit the National Big South Fork River and Recreation Area. The number that ride the train has decreased over time and much of the rail system has been in operation for over 80 years and is nearing the end of its useful life. The train carries tourists from Stearns to the Blue Heron Mine which is owned and operated by the National Parks Service as part of the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area. “Last year, when the railroad hosted THE POLAR EXPRESS ™ railway tour for the first time, it was a huge, success attracting over 7,000 riders,” saidEnergy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely. “Innovation such as that is why we are excited about this project.” The AML Pilot project, funded through the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE), is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands.
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Last year in Kentucky, drug-related deaths spiked again with 1,565 fatal overdoses. Tragically, one person dies every seven minutes, with the death toll reaching a historic high in 2017 at more than 72,000 fatal overdoses in America. In an effort to turn the tide on this deadly epidemic, the U.S. House passed sweeping legislation this week after extensive negotiations with the Senate. The resulting package provides the most significant bipartisan measures in the nation's history to combat the drug crisis. The Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, H.R. 6 passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. Two bills championed by Congressman Rogers were included in the package. The legislation combats illicit and synthetic drugs coming across our borders, encourages the development of new non-addictive painkillers, improves prescription drug monitoring programs, removes outdated barriers that hamper access to care, addresses the effects of the crisis on children and families, and establishes innovative opioid recovery programs. "Nearly every family in Southern and Eastern Kentucky has been impacted by the heartbreaking drug abuse epidemic and we simply can't relent. We must strengthen our efforts through funding and support for community leaders who are on the front lines of this crisis in our hospital emergency departments, in our treatment facilities, in our educational institutions and beyond," said Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "This legislation also reflects the successful comprehensive model of Operation UNITE on a national scale, focusing on education, treatment and law enforcement." Among the many provisions included in H.R. 6, Congressman Rogers' Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for medical professionals who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. Furthermore, the Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act will expand the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) efforts to combat the deadly drug abuse epidemic in the Appalachian region, where the opioid-related overdose rate is 65% higher than the rest of the nation. The legislation includes Medicaid, Medicare and public health reform to help patients and families get the help they need. It also reauthorizes anti-meth and anti-heroin task forces at the Department of Justice, which have been important tools against drug trafficking in the Appalachian region. Earlier this week, Congress approved a federal funding package for fiscal year 2019 that included a record $6.7 billion to fight, treat, and stop substance abuse. In March, Congress also approved $4 billion in federal funding to address the nation's deadly drug abuse epidemic in 2018. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will move on to the White House for President Trump's signature after final approval in the Senate. For a full summary of H.R. 6, click here.
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- After passing historic tax reform last December, the U.S. House approved additional measures this week to advance savings for American taxpayers. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for Tax Reform 2.0 legislation to complement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, including the Family Savings Act (H.R. 6757), the American Innovation Act (H.R. 6756) and the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018 (H.R. 6760). Permanent tax relief for families means millionaires pay a larger share of the tax burden and those who need it most see the largest percentage drop in their taxes. "One-third of American workers don't have a retirement plan through their employer, but this plan will help change the course for the future. Tax reform is one of the most complex issues that this Congress has tackled, but simply put, this package will lock-in tax cuts for middle-class families, allowing more Americans to take home more money in their paychecks, save for retirement and make important investments for retirement," said Rogers. "It also supports continued small business growth by protecting tax reductions and incentivizing innovative technologies so we can create more jobs across the country." The non-partisan Tax Foundation's analysis of Tax Reform 2.0 shows it will create 1.5 million new jobs, increase wages by 0.9 percent and increase the GDP by 2.2 percent. The tax reform plan also contains provisions to help local businesses provide retirement plans to their workers and includes reforms to help employees plan for retirement and expands uses of 529 education savings plans. Tax Reform 2.0 protects lower tax rates, a doubled Child Tax Credit, the first-ever Paid Family Leave Tax Credit, doubled exemption from the Death Tax and elimination of the Alternative Minimum Tax for nearly 96 percent of those who paid it last year. The Joint Committee on Taxation found that Tax Reform 2.0 will benefit low and middle class earners the most. Taxpayers with incomes under $50,000 will see their share of the total federal tax burden drop from 4.2% to 3.9%. Those with less than $10,000 in income will see their taxes slashed by more than half. Likewise, average taxpayers with incomes between $10,000 and $20,000, a group that frequently claims refundable tax credits, will have no tax liability and receive an additional refund. For more information about Tax Reform 2.0, click here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauds passage of a second federal funding package for fiscal year 2019, including critical funding for Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, including clear benefits for Kentucky. It also provides a Continuing Resolution to fund the rest of the federal government's discretionary programs through December 7, 2018. The legislation provides funding for the 21st Century Cures Act and landmark support to combat the nation's deadly drug abuse crisis, which has been so prevalent in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. It includes the largest pay raise for U.S. troops in nine years and strengthens our defense with modernized equipment, such as new aircraft for our National Guard. The comprehensive bill also boosts school safety measures, enhances workforce development opportunities and makes funding available for the victims of Hurricane Florence. Speaker Ryan selected Rogers to serve on the House-Senate conference committee to finalize the funding package before the end of fiscal year 2018. "This legislation provides the funding and stability necessary to defend American interests and values around the world – including a well-deserved pay raise for the men and women in uniform who serve bravely under our flag," said Rogers, who spoke on the House Floor urging its passage. "It also provides additional life-saving resources and research for those suffering with cancer, opioid addiction, and other diseases. I am proud of the work of this committee to send these important appropriations bills to the President on time." The federal funding package totals $852.4 billion and now moves on to the White House for approval. Last Friday, President Trump signed the first congressionally-approved funding package, including Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch operations throughout the upcoming fiscal year. KENTUCKY HIGHLIGHTS Defense The FY19 Defense bill continues to rebuild our military, and is fully consistent with the President’s National Defense Strategy and Nuclear Posture Review. It prioritizes readiness, taking care of our service members and their families, and ensuring that the military has the capabilities it needs to fight and win our nation’s wars. This legislation gives the Defense Department the stability and clarity it needs by providing its full appropriation before the end of the fiscal year for the first time in more than twenty years. Overall Defense Spending - This bill provides $674.4 billion for the Department of Defense, $17 billion more than FY18. This includes $67.9 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations, ensuring that the men and women in uniform overseas have the tools they need to be successful. Taking Care of Soldiers - The bill includes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops—the largest pay raise in nine years. It also provides the funding for 16,400 additional service members, so the military has the capacity to respond to global threats. Combating Global Threats - The bill funds our ongoing operations against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and supports increased US military presence in European nations being threatened by Russian aggression through the European Deterrence Initiative. It also provides critical support to our key allies, such as Israel, Ukraine and Jordan, to resist aggression. Readiness and Training - The bill supports key readiness programs that will prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, including flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations. Health Care & Research - The bill provides $34 billion for the Defense Health Program, which provides comprehensive care for our active duty troops, their families, and retirees. It also funds critical research for many health issues which affect our service members, including several forms of cancer, traumatic brain injuries, and psychological health. National Guard Counter-Drug - The bill includes $232 million for the National Guard Counter-Drug Program and Counter-Drug Schools, an increase of $110 million from the President’s request. The Kentucky National Guard Counter-Drug program is among the best in the nation, and has eradicated millions of dollars of illegal drugs. Kentucky Defense Highlights C-130J Hercules Aircraft - The bill provides funding for the procurement of eight C-130J aircraft for the Air National Guard. These eight, combined with the eight funded C-130Js in the FY17 and FY18 bills, will ensure that the National Guard has the best possible aircraft to accomplish their missions. The Kentucky Air National Guard is well-poised to receive some of these aircraft, and Congressman Rogers has been working with his colleagues in the delegation and the National Guard Bureau to secure these vital tools for our brave airmen. UH-60 Blackhawk Helicopters - The bill provides funding for the procurement of 15 UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters specifically for the Army National Guard. Like the C-130Js, these helicopters will ensure that the National Guard has the best and newest helicopters available. The Kentucky Army National Guard is well-poised to potentially receive some of these aircraft. Landmark Funding to Combat Substance Abuse This legislation provides a record $6.7 billion to fight, treat, and stop substance abuse, including a $584 million increase to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The total also includes: $1.8 billion for the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant at SAMHSA; $475.5 million for comprehensive Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention grants at CDC; over $100 million to expand medication-assisted treatment (MAT) grants; and $70 million for drug treatment courts. Rural Educational and Job Training Programs Career and Technical Education (CTE) - The bill includes $1.92 billion for CTE, an increase of $120 million from FY18. This program is an essential component of the high school curriculum, and assists Kentucky schools in providing students with the necessary skills for a successful transition to the workforce. Job Corps - The bill includes $1.71 billion for the Job Corps. This funding will assist multiple Job Corps locations in Kentucky to continue to provide career and technical training to our nation’s youth, while allowing them to work towards a high school diploma or college credits. It also promotes a sense of community and family. Federal TRIO programs - The bill includes $1.06 billion for TRIO programs, an increase of $50 million from FY18. The federal TRIO programs assist low-income individuals and first-generation college students as they progress through the academic pipeline. GEAR UP - The bill includes $360 million for GEAR UP, an increase of $10 million from FY18. This grant program is designed to increase the number of low-income students who enter and succeed in postsecondary education. It targets students at an early age and provides scholarships and incentives to excel in their studies. Training and Employment Services - The bill provides $3.5 billion, an increase of $200 million from FY18. This increase in funding will help support crucial apprenticeship, employment training, and trade adjustment programs. Veterans Employment and Training Services - The bill includes $300 million, an increase of $5 million from FY18. This targeted funding will specifically provide veterans the tools they need to find and maintain careers after their service. 21st Century Learning Centers - The bill provides $1.22 million, which will allow community learning centers to provide academic enrichment opportunities during non-school hours for children, particularly students who attend high-poverty and low-performing schools. Federal Work Study program - The bill provides $1.13 billion for this program, which provides funds for part-time employment to help needy students finance the heavy cost of higher education. Promise Neighborhoods - The bill includes $78.2 million, which will provide grants to schools and nonprofits to help ensure that children who grow up in distressed regions have access to great schools and community support. Other Community and Economic Development Programs Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) program - The bill includes$725 million, a $10 million increase, for the CSBG program. These grants increase self-sufficiency, living conditions, and lessen poverty in low-income areas. Head Start - The bill includes more than $10 billion, a $200 million increase, for Head Start. This funding will allow for the implementation of additional school readiness programs for children younger than 5 from low-income families. Child Care and Development Block Grant - The bill includes nearly $5.3 billion, a $50 million increase, for this program. This is the primary federal funding source for child care subsidies to help low-income, working families, access child care services. Community Economic Development Grants - The bill provides $19.8 million for this grant program, which creates sustainable businesses and employment opportunities in low-income areas. Provisions to Promote Rural Health and Medical Research Rural Health Programming - The bill provides extensive funding for rural health, including nearly $317.8 million in funding – a $27 million increase – for rural health promotion, research, and telehealth programs. It also includes $25.3 million for the National Diabetes Prevention Program at CDC, which works to prevent or delay type-2 diabetes. Groundbreaking Research - The bill achieves a substantial $2 billion increase, for a total of $39 billion, for the world’s largest biomedical research agency, the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This includes a $500 million increase, totaling nearly $1.3 billion, dedicated to opioid addiction, development of opioid alternatives, pain management, and addiction treatment. It also includes a $425 million increase dedicated to Alzheimer’s research, bringing the total to more than $2.3 billion. Pro Coal Language Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) - The bill provides $10.537 million for state training grants, and ensures that the funds are used to help coal operators manage the costs associated with the expensive equipment necessary to comply with the MSHA Dust Rule. The bill also expresses concern that the level of MSHA inspectors far exceeds the number that is required to ensure the safe operation of existing domestic coal mines, and directs the agency to take action, including reductions in force if necessary, to ensure sufficient industry oversight that does not exceed statutory and regulatory requirements. Other Provisions Continuing Resolution - The bill includes a Continuing Resolution that funds all Federal agencies not funded by an already-enacted appropriations bill through December 7, 2018 (Interior & Environment, Financial Services and General Government, Transportation-Housing and Urban Development, Agriculture, Homeland Security, State and Foreign Operations, & Commerce, Justice and Science). To watch Congressman Rogers' full speech on the House Floor in support of the legislation, click here.
09.21.2018	LEXINGTON, Ky. (Sept. 20, 2018) — The University of Kentucky Sports Medicine Research Institute (SMRI) received a $4 million research contract from the United States Department of Defense (DOD) and Office of Naval Research to expand research focused on determining optimal physical and mental fitness among elite U.S. military members. For the last three years, the SMRI has worked with the Marine Corps Forces Special Operations Command (MARSOC) human performance program at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, to study injury prevention and create new ways to optimize physical performance in its personnel. “I have been amazed by the SMRI at the University of Kentucky. Whether it is their work with active duty military and veterans, UK’s stellar student athletes, or on critical women’s health issues, the results their team has delivered have been nothing short of astounding,” said Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-5). “I am confident that the SRMI will continue this record of excellence with the Department of Defense. We owe our men and women in uniform the best, and I know that this research partnership will enable MARSOC operators to always be able to perform at the highest level—whether training here at home, or in harm’s way around the world.” “In the rich, evolving history of the University of Kentucky, one constant remains – the University’s close ties to training and supporting members of the United States Armed Forces,” said University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto. “Today, researchers at UK are confronting the most complex questions and profound challenges facing our military. The SMRI is a powerful example of interdisciplinary collaboration leading to vital discoveries benefiting our warriors, our Commonwealth and beyond.” Optimal preparation for tactical training and deployment requires high levels of physical and mental performance.“This award will support the development of a tool that can be used by special operations forces command to determine this overall preparedness of their personnel and respond with earlier interventions for injury prevention,” said John Abt, PhD, director of the SMRI and principal investigator of the research. Nick Heebner, PhD, associate director for research of the SMRI, added that this project will be different from past MARSOC studies. “Our research up to this point was primarily related to musculoskeletal health in the form of recovery time and injury prevention,” he said. “As we worked with MARSOC and the Special Operations Command in developing this protocol, we were asked to study a broadly-based system that incorporates physical performance, musculoskeletal health, cognitive performance (mental sharpness), and psychosocial (mental) health.” “We want to present a final product that integrates with current data analytics and provides a holistic view of preparedness in operator health,” Heebner continued. “We hope this tool can be used broadly by command and specifically with team leaders to better prepare for their work and deployments, physically and mentally.” “This award represents 15 years of continuous research with the Department of Defense and special operations forces that has been successfully transferred from SMRI faculty at the University of Pittsburgh to the University of Kentucky College of Health Sciences,” said Scott Lephart, Ph.D., dean of the College of Health Sciences. “The SMRI has received more than $10 million in funding from the DOD since 2015.” “As a military veteran, I personally value the work being done at the Sports Medicine Research Institute,” said Dr. Mark F. Newman, UK vice president for health affairs. “I commend Dean Lephart and the team at SMRI for their commitment to working with the Department of Defense to further expand and advance research that focuses on injury prevention and performance optimization for the men and women of the U.S. military.”
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Federal funding will soon help more Eastern Kentuckians gain access to substance abuse treatment and recovery support. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced a $250,000 grant has been awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to Operation UNITE, a non-profit organization that Congressman Rogers launched in 2003 to combat the deadly drug abuse epidemic in Eastern Kentucky through law enforcement, treatment and education. Operation UNITE, now nationally recognized for its unique three-pronged approach, will utilize the grant to create community partnerships to reach more individuals struggling with opioid-use disorder (OUD). "In Kentucky, more than 1,500 people died from drug overdoses last year alone, and across America a deadly overdose occurs every seven minutes. It's heartbreaking, because we know those deaths are preventable through treatment and recovery support, as well as increased education," said Rogers, who helped secure funding for the grant program through his role as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "This funding will extend the reach of UNITE with key partners across Southern and Eastern Kentucky to provide services that will give hope to individuals and families suffering with addiction." Operation UNITE's new consortium of partners include the Kentucky River District Health Department, Primary Care Centers of Eastern Kentucky, Kentucky State Police, LKLP Transportation, Addiction Recovery Care Centers and Hope in the Mountains. The group of partners will identify individuals at-risk of overdose and coordinate care and recovery options. "Our number one message at UNITE is there is hope for recovery from addiction. In fact, we continue to see countless lives saved in Eastern Kentucky as a direct result of compassionate people and organizations who are committed to be part of the solution," said Nancy Hale, President and CEO of Operation UNITE. "As the mother of a son in recovery, I know first-hand the challenges that families face. Addiction impacts entire families and communities. That's why we need partners to join us year after year to advance hope and education across our region." The initiative is targeted in seven counties, including Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley, Perry and Wolfe. It will provide 38 additional vouchers for substance abuse treatment for individuals who otherwise cannot afford it, while consortium members will promote and expand education and outreach efforts in the designated counties. The initiative will also work in concert with the Kentucky State Police's Angel Initiative to offer additional services to those who seek help with substance abuse at a state police post. More than 4,400 people have received a free treatment voucher through Operation UNITE since 2003. Last year, Operation UNITE's treatment hotline expanded statewide to provide more support to individuals and families impacted by OUD. For information about substance abuse treatment options, call 1-833-8KY-HELP. To learn more about Congressman Rogers’ efforts to combat the opioid epidemic, click here.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Tourism in Eastern Kentucky will soon get a much needed boost from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today the whitewater rafting season will be extended by two weeks at the Breaks Interstate Park, which includes Kentucky's eastern-most point in Pike County, as well as Virginia. During a budget hearing in March, Rogers reminded the Army Corps and the Bureau of Reclamation about a long-standing request from local residents to extend the whitewater rafting season on the Russell Fork River by discharging water more frequently from the Flannagan Dam on the Virginia border. Since that budget hearing, through his role as Chairman Emeritus of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Rogers worked closely with the Army Corps Headquarters and Huntington District to make this action possible. "Whitewater rafting has been a great economic boon for tourism around the Breaks Interstate Park, but the season has been cut short each year. I applaud the Army Corps for adding additional water release dates at the Flannagan Dam, which will extend the downstream whitewater rafting season into November and attract more recreational enthusiasts to our region this fall," said Rogers. "In light of the recent downturn of our coal industry, we must capitalize on every opportunity to diversify our economy and enhance our unique tourism options in our beautiful Appalachian mountains." The Army Corps has scheduled weekend releases at the Flannagan Dam during the first four weeks in October and will conduct two additional "test" releases on the first two weekends of November 2018. A public scoping meeting will be held on September 27, 2018 at 6:30 pm at the Breaks Interstate Park Conference Center.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauded House passage of America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, a comprehensive bipartisan effort between both the U.S. House and Senate to improve the nation's water infrastructure and flood protection programs. The legislation includes the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, giving the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers the resources necessary to protect our communities and our waterways. "This legislation is vital to improving quality drinking water across the country, while also protecting our homes and businesses from future flood damage," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "It also includes my on-going effort to protect communities around Lake Cumberland from being taxed with unneccessary access fees for drinking water. I included language to prohibit the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from charging those uncalculated fees in both this bill and the Energy and Water House Appropriations Bill. I have been blocking that tax for many years, and will continue to ensure our local, rural communities are not burdened with an added cost to access quality drinking water at the unkown and unfair expense of maintaining the Wolf Creek Dam." The bill also includes key provisions from the Drinking Water System Improvement Act to help modernize the country's aging drinking water infrastructure. For more information about the legislation, visit transportation.house.gov.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Focused on much needed improvements for veterans, national security and infrastructure across the country, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the first federal funding "minibus" package for fiscal year 2019, containing three appropriations bills. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, voted for the package, which includes funding for Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch operations throughout the upcoming fiscal year. "We are keeping our promise to improve healthcare for our veterans with historic funding for Veterans Affairs and improved management. This legislation also enhances national security and improves our infrastructure and energy programs across the country. We have also maintained a 10% spending cut for Congress and a pay freeze for all Members," said Rogers. "This legislation also protects programs that benefit Kentuckians, from grants that support economic growth in the coalfields, to protecting communities around Lake Cumberland from unnecessary access fees, to additional research for the development of clean coal technology." The federal funding package totals $147.5 billion and now moves to the White House for approval. This is the first time in more than a decade that Congress has sent more than one appropriations bill to the President's desk before the end of the fiscal year, marking improved legislative efforts in Washington. "Minibus" Appropriations Package Highlights Economic Development Economic Development Programs Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) – provides $165 million for the ARC, which includes the most non-highway funding in its history to support economic growth in distressed counties in the Appalachian region, including $10 million to continue an existing program which will increase broadband access. This also includes $50 million for the POWER Initiative to support communities that have been adversely impacted by the declining coal industry, by providing resources for job creation, job training, and other employment services. It also includes $16 million for basic infrastructure improvements in Central Appalachia, targeted towards distressed counties. Rural Infrastructure U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) – provides $7 billion, $172 million more than fiscal year 2018, for the Corps of Engineers to improve and rebuild the nation’s water resources and infrastructure. This includes $77 million for USACE’s Environmental Infrastructure program, some of which may be directed towards the Section 531 water and wastewater improvement program for Southern and Eastern Kentucky. It also includes $9.8 million for the Corps’ non-structural flood control programs, some of which may be used for projects across Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. Water Reallocation Study at Lake Cumberland – prohibits the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from completing a Water Reallocation Study for Lake Cumberland. This study would result in nearby towns and other users paying more for access to water at the lake. Pro-Coal Provisions Fossil Energy Research – advances an “all of the above” energy strategy by investing in fossil energy research. These investments in cutting edge technologies will ensure coal remains a significant part of our energy portfolio—both here at home and abroad. Department of Energy (DOE) Fossil Energy Research programs are funded at $740 million, which is $13 million above FY18 funding levels. The DOE Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) and Power Systems Program is funded at $488 million, with $54 million set aside for the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) to focus on coal, natural gas and oil technologies. Veterans Overall VA Funding - provides $98.1 billion for the VA, the largest dollar amount in history for the VA. It funds VA medical care at $72.3 billion, providing care for more than 7 million veteran and dependent patients.The bill includes $1.1 billion for the new VA electronic health record, ensuring our veterans receive proper care, with timely and accurate medical data transferred between identical systems at the VA and the Department of Defense.The bill seeks to further reduce the disability claims backlog to ensure adequate compensation and care for the almost 450,000 veterans still awaiting final decisions on their claims. VA Medical priorities - provides funding for the VA’s medical priorities, including $400 million for opioid abuse prevention, $8.6 billion for mental health care, $206 million for suicide prevention outreach, $589 million for traumatic brain injury treatment, $7.5 billion for homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training, and $270 million for rural health initiatives, ensuring veterans in rural America, and Kentucky, can receive the care they earned. For more detailed information on each of these bills, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/legislation/
08.31.2018	PIKEVILLE, Ky. (Aug. 31, 2018)– U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05)and Governor Matt Bevin today announced two grants worth $10.5 million to spur economic development and job creation in Eastern Kentucky. Letcher County will receive $4.5 million for a water expansion project that will serve 100 additional households and the future federal correctional facility in Roxana, Kentucky. The funding will be used to install approximately 9.5 miles of water transmission lines, along with elevated storage tanks and booster pump stations, and a waste water treatment plant (WWTP) to support the 800-acre penitentiary, which will house more than 1,200 inmates and employ approximately 300 full-time staff. EnerBlu, Inc., which manufactures low cost, high-power batteries, will receive $6 million to locate a one million square-foot, energy-efficient, manufacturing facility in Pikeville at the Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park. The facility will produce lithium titanate (LTO) batteries, battery packs and modules, battery systems, hybrid generator-storage units, micro-grid systems, and electric bus and truck assembly. EnerBlu and the City of Pikeville will provide approximately $21.65 million “in-kind” funds for property purchase, road construction and infrastructure construction to the site location. Not including construction activities, this project is anticipated to create over 900 jobs within a three-year period. The two grants were awarded through the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet’s (EEC) Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, as part of the 2017 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. Both projects were unveiled at the 2018 Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Summit in Pikeville, Ky. by Gov. Bevin and by Congressman Rogers, who championed $195 million in federal funding for the AML Pilot program since 2016, of which $80 million has been awarded to Kentucky. “Eastern Kentucky’s AML Pilot Projects are doing exactly what they were designed to do – reuse our land to create good-paying jobs for our families and help boost our struggling Appalachian economy,” Rep. Rogers said. "We are grateful for an additional federal AML allocation that will be designated for economic development projects in our Appalachian counties," said Gov. Matt Bevin. "This is another valuable tool that many Eastern Kentucky communities are utilizing to help revitalize their economies." The prison facility at Roxana is expected to provide an indirect revenue stream of approximately $3 million to $4 million to Letcher County and the surrounding Appalachian communities. The estimated 264,000 gallons of water purchased from Knott County each day will bring an estimated $289,000 to Knott County per year. Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely said the projects show how Kentucky is continuing to invest in businesses that will bring jobs to Eastern Kentucky. “It is rewarding to see so many worthy projects get funding so that they can be an important part of the economic rebuilding of Eastern Kentucky,” Sec. Snavely said. The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinetand the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. Kentucky’s 2018 AML Pilot Program granting period is open. Application forms for project submittals can be found at AMLPILOT or by calling or emailing Mr. Bob Scott, Director, KY Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 300 Sower Blvd., Frankfort, KY 40601. 502-782-6761, BobF.Scott@ky.gov.
08.30.2018	PIKEVILLE, Ky. (August 31, 2018) -- Celebrating the organization's 5th anniversary, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers and Governor Matt Bevin welcomed more than 1,100 attendees to the annual summit at the East Kentucky Exposition Center in Pikeville, applauding federal, state and local leaders for overcoming early challenges to drive successful efforts inspired by Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR). "Five years ago, the future of Kentucky's Appalachian region seemed daunting. However, with approximately 12,000 coal miners left without jobs in the wake of the war on coal, more than 1,200 people from across Eastern Kentucky rallied together under the united mission of SOAR to reimagine our future, improve quality of life and diversify our struggling economy," said Rogers. "Progress may seem slow at times, but we have made great strides against the heavy burden of the war on coal and we won't stop pulling together federal, state and local resources to overcome our challenges and recruit new innovative opportunties to our region. The horizon is brighter than ever before with hundreds of new jobs opening soon, a new federal prison approved for construction and broadband access on the way to every county. Our best days are ahead!" Congressman Rogers and Governor Bevin inspired local leaders and aspiring entrepreneurs to continue working together toward a better future for Eastern Kentucky. “This year’s SOAR Summit showcases the unlimited potential that exists in Eastern Kentucky,” said Gov. Bevin. “Kentucky’s Appalachian region is home to entrepreneurs, business leaders, innovators, and change-makers that are committed to making a difference in their local communities, and they are putting their ideas into action. We are committed to coming alongside the local communities to identify resources and new opportunities to encourage further economic growth and development. The determination and drive in this region of our Commonwealth ensures that the future of Appalachia will be bright.” Keynote speakers included USDA Rural Development Assistant to the Secretary Anne Hazlett; Tim Thomas, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC); Chris Thomlinson, owner of SilverLiner in Pikeville; Bob Schena, CEO of Rajant Corporation in Morehead; and Major General (Retired) Vinny Boles, who led logistics for the U.S. Army following the tragic events on September 11, 2001. Hazlett and Thomas joined Rogers and Bevin to make several funding announcements for the region, including: A $100,000 grant from the ARC for SOAR operations; A $1.2 million grant from Kentucky ARC for development of a 30-acre industrial site in Perry County; $625,390 in grant funding from USDA Rural Development for several projects in the SOAR region, including a new national pilot program for transitional housing related to the opioid epidemic in Rockcastle County; $30,000 private investment from Toyota Tsusho to launch an Advanced Manufacturing Makerspace at the Southeast Kentucky Community and Technical College's Middlesboro Campus; and $10.5 million for two new Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Pilot Projects in Letcher County and Pike County. For more information about the ongoing work related to SOAR, visit soar-ky.org. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched in 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges.
07.26.2018	FRANKFORT, Ky. (July 24, 2018) - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Gov. Matt Bevin today announced a grant by the Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE) through the 2017 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot program that will create jobs in Eastern Kentucky. The City of Hazard has been given preliminary approval for a $900,000 AML grant that will bring a natural gas pipeline from a wellhead in the central Perry County area to the Coalfields Regional Industrial Park. The addition of natural gas to the industrial park will attract jobs to a region that has been adversely impacted by changes in the coal economy. Through the efforts of Congressman Rogers (KY-05), chairman emeritus of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, the state has received $80 million through the AML Pilot Program from fiscal year 2016 to 2018 to return coal sites to productive use and attract new jobs to replace those lost during the downturn of the industry. “The AML Pilot Program is actively reclaiming land for job creation, tourism expansion and fruitful innovative opportunities,” said Congressman Rogers. “Hundreds of new long-term, sustainable jobs are being created and I’m inspired by the ingenuity of Eastern Kentuckians that is being highlighted through this new pilot program.” The project is expected to cost $2.98 million, of which $32,000 is coming from the City of Hazard and $2 million from other federal funds. "We are grateful for an additional federal AML allocation that will be designated for economic development projects in our Appalachian counties," said Gov. Bevin. "This is another valuable tool that many Eastern Kentucky communities are utilizing to help revitalize their economies." The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. “It is rewarding to see a project like this get funding so that Hazard can take part in the economic rebuilding of Eastern Kentucky,” said Sec. Charles Snavely of the Energy and Environment Cabinet. “I want to thank state Rep. Chris Fugate and state Sen. Brandon Smith for their support and encouragement of this project.” The 236-acre Coalfields Industrial Park serves a five-county area and is owned and operated by the Coalfields Regional Industrial Authority. It provides approximately 500 jobs including those at Sykes, a shipping, logistics, and supply-chain management company, and Federal Express. The park is constructed on former surface mine land with highway access and infrastructure resources readily available.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the Conference Report for the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019 to strengthen and modernize the military. "One of the most important Constitutional duties of Congress is to provide for the common defense, and I'm proud that this comprehensive legislation increases the size of our military and ensures our troops have access to the best possible resources to protect our homeland and neutralize threats at home and abroad," said Rogers, who voted for the NDAA conference report. "This bill also provides for our military families and authorizes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops." To help restore military readiness, the NDAA Conference Report authorizes $17.7 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn out Army equipment; $40.8 billion to begin to overcome the crisis in military aviation by getting more aircraft in the air; $36.3 billion to restore America’s strength at sea, and $23.5 billion to sustain, repair and rebuild crumbling military buildings and other infrastructure. America’s military is facing challenges on multiple fronts, including the troubling increase in serious training accidents; the re-emergence of competitors like Russia and China; the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea; and the imperative to keep up the pressure on ISIS, al Qaeda, and other terrorist groups. The Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act implements new reforms designed to speed decision making and improve military agility, while simultaneously restoring readiness and increasing capability and capacity in a force that has been asked to do too much with too little for too long. Since President Trump took office, the Administration and Congress have prioritized rebuilding the military. The Administration issued a new National Security Strategy, National Defense Strategy, and a Nuclear Posture Review to address a world with a wider spectrum of serious threats than at any time in recent history. The FY19 NDAA Conference Report focuses rebuilding efforts on these new strategies. The NDAA Conference Report complies with the bipartisan budget agreement and supports a base budget of $639.1 billion, including significant increases for improving the readiness of our military forces. The conference report is the result of rigorous bipartisan oversight, numerous visits with military personnel and facilities across the country and around the world.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House Appropriations Committee passed the Homeland Security funding bill today, the 12th and final appropriations bill for fiscal year 2019. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the Committee, voted for the bill to secure our borders, provide for national defense, enhance emergency response and combat illegal trafficking of opioids across the border. The legislation directs $51.4 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), an increase of $3.7 billion above the current enacted level. The bill also includes President Trump's requested $6.7 billion for major disaster relief and emergency response activities through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). It also includes $5 billion for physical barriers and modern technology along the U.S. southern border, including more than 200 miles of new physical barrier construction. Additionally, the bill includes $223 million for 140 new Customs and Border Protection (CBP) canine teams to initiate a five-year strategy towards achieving 100 percent scanning on the southern border. Chairman Rogers made the following remarks in support of the legislation: "As many of you know, as its former Chairman—and its first Chairman—this subcommittee is still near and dear to my heart. "In this year’s bill, I was particularly pleased to see the increase in funding for opioid detection at Customs and Border Protection--$108 million, specifically to enable for the scanning of mail at international and express consignment facilities. We've heard from law enforcement that is one of the major avenues for importing fentanyl and that's through the mail and the consignment operations. You fight back and I thank you very much. "Fentanyl is having a catastrophic invasion in our families and in our communities. We know that Fentanyl and its analogs are driving the nationwide spike in drug overdose deaths. "The additional support for these mail facilities is an important step to counter those exploiting the postal service for criminal gain, and I was proud to see the prioritization of these efforts. Job well done. "Thank you, and I yield back." The bill now moves to the full U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. For a summary, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395381 For the bill report, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180725/108623/HMKP-115-AP00-20180725-SD004.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/homeland_sc_bill.pdf VIDEO: Chairman Rogers urges committee passage of the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill for FY19
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act, H.R. 5979, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), designating the Mill Springs Battlefield a National Monument and part of the National Park System. The historic Civil War battlefield spans Wayne and Pulaski counties in southern Kentucky and adjoins the Mill Springs National Cemetery. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell filed a companion bill in the U.S. Senate in support of the action. Congressman Rogers made the following remarks on the House Floor urging passage of the legislation: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5979, the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act—legislation I introduced that directs the Secretary of Interior to establish the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument as a unit of the National Park System. “On January 19, 1862, the small Kentucky town of Logan's Crossroads erupted in a blast of artillery and musket fire, as Confederate and Union forces clashed in the Battle of Mill Springs. “When the smoke cleared, it was clear that the Union was victorious, and had secured its first significant victory of the Civil War. “To honor the site, the Mill Springs Battlefield in Pulaski and Wayne Counties, Kentucky was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark District in 1993. “Realizing the need to preserve and protect the battlefield for the future, the Mill Springs Battlefield Association was founded in 1992. MSBA currently owns more than 900 acres of the battlefield, and even built a $1.7 million, 10,000-square foot visitor center and museum at the site. “Mr. Speaker, while MSBA is currently doing an exemplary job in maintaining the battlefield, it simply does not have the financial resources to adequately preserve and maintain the site in perpetuity. “To ensure that the Mill Springs Battlefield is protected for future generations, I introduced this legislation—to add the battlefield to the National Park System. “This will ensure that this battlefield--where the Union first tasted victory--is protected, preserved and promoted well into the future. “Mr. Speaker, this effort is supported by the Secretary of Interior, Ryan Zinke, as well as the National Park Service. “It is also supported by many in Kentucky, including our Governor, my friends in our Congressional Delegation, and countless local leaders. “It is also supported by MSBA, who is willing to donate their property to make this National Monument a reality. “Chairman McClintock, I am particularly grateful to you, Chairman Bishop, and your staff, who have worked closely with me to bring this bill to the Floor. Thank you. “I’d also like to specifically thank my friend and colleague, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, for ushering companion legislation through the Senate. “And finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the men and women of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association. Without their decades of work to preserve this important site, none of this would be possible today. “Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act, and yield the balance of my time.” The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration in coordination with Leader McConnell's companion legislation. RECENT RELATED STORIES: Mill Springs Battlefield Clears First Hurdle to Become Part of the National Park System Congressman Rogers and Local Advocate Push for Mill Springs Battlefield to Become National Monument Rogers, McConnell Lead Effort to Add Mill Springs Battlefield to Federal System VIDEO: Congressman Rogers Urges Passage of Bill to Add Mill Springs Battlefield to the National Park System
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives passed two more federal funding bills today for fiscal year 2019 (FY19), including the Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill and the Financial Services Appropriations Bill. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers voted for the legislation, which contains several benefits for Kentucky, including $30 million for the state's Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Pilot Grant Program to help revitalize the land and economy in coal producing counties. The appropriations package also boosts rural broadband expansion, economic development, WYMT-TV's efforts to be carried on satellite, and work to curb the drug abuse crisis. "As we work to make America better, this funding package sets up rural communities for success through support for economic development and investments in programs that will improve our future from broadband to life-saving programs, like Drug Courts," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "We are attracting new jobs and more innovative opportunities across southern and eastern Kentucky every day, and this legislation provides the support necessary to ensure those efforts continue and grow." The Interior Appropriations bill contains a total of $35.3 billion, funding programs that protect and make the best use of domestic natural resources, that provide investments in infrastructure such as improvements for drinking water systems. The bill also makes strides to rein in harmful regulations at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill contains a total of $23.4 billion, targeting those funds to financial law enforcement and safety, efforts to fight opioid abuse, and programs that provide investments and opportunity for small businesses. The bill also continues efforts to continue to implement the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017” at the Internal Revenue Service. Kentucky Highlights in the FY19 Interior and Environment Bill: AML Pilot Program – The bill includes $120 million for this program in six states, of which $30 million will be for Kentucky. The program revitalizes abandoned mine land and spurs economic development in struggling coal-producing counties. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds EPA at $7.958 billion, $100 million below the FY18 level. Within this total, EPA’s regulatory programs are reduced by $228 million below the current level. The legislation supports the President’s proposal to reshape the Agency’s workforce by providing resources requested to offer buyouts and voluntary separation agreements to employees.The bill also targets additional funding provided by the recent budget agreement to infrastructure programs, including:- a total of $2.6 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund, which states and localities use for water infrastructure projects, and- a total of $75 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program to leverage federal dollars to provide financing for more than $8 billion in water infrastructure projects. Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule –The bill fully repeals the Obama Administration’s 2015 job-killing WOTUS Rule. Office of Surface Mining/AML Regulatory Grants – The bill includes $68.59 million for these regulatory grants. Kentucky Highlights in the FY19 Financial Services Bill: WYMT-TV in Hazard, Ky. – The report contains language aimed to help WYMT receive satellite carriage in the future. Specifically, the language directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to follow congressional intent and put a premium on the value of local news programming when considering broadcast stations' petitions, like WYMT's, to be carried on satellite. Fighting the Opioid Epidemic – The legislation contains $415 million for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). Within this amount, the bill provides $280 million for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and $118 million for other federal drug control programs, such as the Drug-Free Communities Program and drug court training and technical assistance. In addition to these funds, the bill provides an extra $15.4 million over the budget request to the US Postal Service Office of Inspector General to continue drug interdiction efforts and investigations. Microloan Technical Assistance Program– The bill includes $31 million. This funding will help small businesses that would otherwise not be able to receive small and short-term loans to fill critical funding needs from traditional financial institutions. FCC Rural Broadband Expansion– The report contains language encouraging the FCC to allocate Universal Service Funds for broadband expansion in rural and economically disadvantaged areas. Deployment of broadband in rural and economically disadvantaged areas is a driver of economic development, jobs, and new education opportunities. For a list of amendments considered to the legislation, please visit: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/6147/all-actions?r=1&overview=closed#tabs For the text of the draft bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20180716/BILLS-115HR6147HR6258-RCP115-81.pdf For the draft bill reports, please visit: Interior and Environment: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt765/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt765.pdf Financial Services and General Government: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt792/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt792.pdf
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted today in support of a House resolution, putting this Congress on the record against a carbon tax, which would be detrimental to the United States economy by raising costs on American energy and countless products. "Thanks to our rich natural resources in Kentucky, families and businesses have enjoyed low energy rates for decades, driving down costs for produce, gas and products that we use everyday. A carbon tax would reverse our advantage, driving away employers and driving down family bank accounts," said Rogers. "As we work together toward energy independence and economic security, this resolution makes clear that this Congress supports President Trump's work to end the War on Coal and reverse previously failed energy policy." A study by the National Association of Manufacturers found a carbon tax would: have a negative effect on consumption, investment and jobs; increase the cost of coal, natural gas and petroleum products thus resulting in higher production costs and less spending on non-energy goods; and lead to lower real wage rates, lower labor productivity, and decrease workers’ incomes. The House approved the resolution, H.Con.Res 119, which moves on for consideration by the U.S. Senate.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The Mill Springs Battlefield is one step closer to becoming part of the National Park System (NPS). On Wednesday, the House Natural Resources Committee unanimously approved the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act, H.R. 5979, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05). Committee clearance paves the way for the bill to be considered by the U.S. House of Representatives. A companion bill has also been filed in the U.S. Senate by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. In 1991, the National Park Service identified Mill Springs Battlefield as one of the 25 most endangered battlefields in America, prompting the birth of the grassroots Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA). Since 1992, MSBA has maintained and protected the battlefield. In 1993, the battlefield was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark District, but its addition to the NPS will provide much-needed federal support to maintain the site. "I introduced this bill to ensure that the Mill Springs Battlefield is preserved for future generations. This site is part of our nation's rich history," said Rogers. "In early 1862, the Confederate Army guarded Cumberland Gap, the eastern end of a defensive line extending from Columbus, Kentucky. A Union force arrived nearby on January 17, 1862, where they awaited reinforcements from Somerset to join them before attacking the Confederates. Ultimately, this battle became the first significant Union victory of the Civil War." On Tuesday, Bill Neikirk, a Pulaski County native and founding president of the MSBA, testified before the committee in support of Rogers' bill, offering to donate more than 900 acres of the historic land, along with continued assistance from the MSBA. "MSBA is unique in that we are not asking the Park Service to take over undeveloped battlefield land, nor buy the land. In contrast, we hope to donate the National Park Service the 900 acres with miles of well-kept interpretive trails, a marked driving tour, and a visitor’s center/museum," said Neikirk. "The Mill Springs Battlefield Association will continue as a friends group in support of the battlefield, as our dedication to preserving & protecting the battlefield will not change when this hopefully becomes a National Monument." Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA) submitted an amendment to the bill, adding the NPS-provided map to the legislation. The bill now moves on for consideration by the full U.S. House of Representatives. VIDEO: Click here to watch Neikirk's testimony and Rogers' statement in support of H.R. 5979.
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) invited Bill Neikirk, Pulaski County native and founding president of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA), to Washington this week to testify before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands on behalf of the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act. Rep. Rogers filed the bill, H.R. 5979, in an effort to highlight the national historical significance of the Civil War battleground spanning Wayne and Pulaski counties. A companion bill has also been filed in the U.S. Senate by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. "Though the Mill Springs Battlefield Association has maintained the battlefield since 1992, we appreciate the National Park Service’s ability and expertise to generate tourism, and believe that the Park Service is best positioned to maintain the battlefield into the future," said Neikirk in his testimony. "In recognition of this, we would like to ask the Committee to support Congressman Rogers’ bill, H.R. 5979, which would direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument as a unit of the National Park System." In 1991, the National Park Service identified Mill Springs Battlefield as one of the 25 most endangered battlefields in America, prompting Neikirk to develop the MSBA. "MSBA is unique in that we are not asking the Park Service to take over undeveloped battlefield land, nor buy the land. In contrast, we hope to donate the National Park Service the 900 acres with miles of well-kept interpretive trails, a marked driving tour, and a visitor’s center/museum," Neikirk continued. "The Mill Springs Battlefield Association will continue as a friends group in support of the battlefield, as our dedication to preserving & protecting the battlefield will not change when this hopefully becomes a National Monument." To honor the site, Mill Springs Battlefield was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark District in 1993, but its addition to the NPS will provide much-needed federal support to maintain the site. "I would like to thank Bill Neikirk, the Founder of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association, for taking the time to be here today to testify. He has been the driving force behind the continued preservation of the Mill Springs Battlefield," said Rep. Rogers. "The site of the Mill Springs Battlefield is currently maintained by the MSBA. Since its founding in 1992, MSBA has steadfastly preserved and protected the battlefield for future generations. They currently own more than 900 acres, and even built a $1.7 million, 10,000-square foot visitor center and museum at the site. While MSBA is currently doing an exemplary job in maintaining the battlefield, it simply does not have the financial resources to adequately preserve and maintain the site in perpetuity." "I’d like to thank the other members of the Kentucky Delegation—both here in the House, and in the Senate, who have supported my efforts to add Mill Springs to the National Park System—particularly Leader McConnell, who recently introduced a Senate companion to this bill." On Wednesday, the committee will vote on the bill to send it on to the full House for consideration. VIDEO: Click the image to watch the hearing regarding the Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument Act.
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday evening, the U.S. House Appropriations Committee approved the draft fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) funding bill on a vote of 30-22. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $177.1 billion in discretionary funding, essentially the same as the 2018 enacted level. The bill targets investments in medical research, public health, biodefense, education, and important activities that help promote job readiness. The legislation also includes several provisions to rein in unnecessary regulations and to protect the sanctity of life. "This bill supports continued life-saving efforts to curb the opioid epidemic and provides loan repayment for Substance Use Disorder treatment professionals in an effort to encourage more medical students to be a part of the solution. It also invests in critical research for diseases like cancer and Alzheimer's, while also boosting rural health programs and funding for infectious disease rapid response," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "The legislation also includes funding for job training, educational programs for low-income and first-generation college students, as well as employment services for veterans. I'm also proud that this bill protects the sanctity of life and provides proper care for unaccompanied immigrant children and refugee families." Kentucky will benefit from several key programs in the bill, specifically boosting efforts to combat the drug abuse crisis, enhancing job training and improving educational opportunities, such as: Drug Programs: The bill includes $2.4 billion for HHS’s flagship Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant, $516 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Opioid Overdose Prevention and Surveillance, $80 million for drug courts, and $112 million for grants to build treatment capacity in states most in need. The bill also carves out $20 million of the $105 million total allocated to the National Health Service Corps specifically for loan repayment for Substance Use Disorder (SUD) treatment professionals. Rural Health Programs: The legislation provides $11 million for state offices of rural health, $26 million for Small Hospital Improvement Grants, $26.8 million for CDC’s National Diabetes Prevention Program, and $12 million for Black Lung clinics. Training and Employment Services: The legislation invests $3.47 billion to help support crucial apprenticeship, employment training, and trade adjustment programs. TRIO: The bill provides $1.06 billion targeted to help serve low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities afford the costs of higher education. Universities across Kentucky rely on this funding to attract and admit eligible students. The bill now moves on to the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. For a summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395353 For the bill report, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/labor_report.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit:https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP07/20180615/108431/BILLS-115-SC-AP-FY2019-LaborHHS-LaborBill.pdf
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers announces nearly $200 million for flood control projects in Floyd and Johnson Counties. The federal funding will complete long-term disaster recovery projects, including the Town of Martin Redevelopment Plan and provide flood protection in Johnson County. The Town of Martin Redevelopment Plan, a flood control project orchestrated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) in Floyd County, was designed in 2004 to move city residents, businesses and government buildings out of the rural town’s dangerous flood plain. To complete the project, the USACE will utilize $80 million from the federal Storm Supplemental Appropriations for Disasters 2018 Package, which was part of the 2018 Bipartisan Budget Act, supported by Congressman Hal Rogers. “We started this unique project 14 years ago to relieve local families and businesses from the constant fear of flooding. It has been a massive undertaking, met with criticism for long delays and unexpected challenges; however, this is good news for the people of Martin. This community has suffered ten major floods in its history, but completion of this critical flood control program is finally in sight,” said Rogers, who has secured nearly $75 million in federal funds for the project since it began in 2004. “Our region has suffered deadly and damaging flash flooding for decades as a result of our mountainous terrain across southern and eastern Kentucky. This mitigation project not only protects the Town of Martin from future flooding, but also provides a beautiful and safe new location for the Floyd County Renaissance Learning Center, Martin City Hall, Police Station, Volunteer Fire Department and a residential area. I applaud the Corps for prioritizing completion of the Town of Martin Redevelopment Plan.” According to the USACE, the federal funding will allow them to finalize real estate acquisitions and demolitions, relocation of KY-1428, remove the Water Street bridge, and also complete phase two and three of site construction. The projected completion date is fiscal year 2025. “In providing the current working estimates of funds required to fully fund these studies and construction projects, the Corps is showing its commitment to “moving dirt” and, more importantly, to completing studies and construction,” said Mr. R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works. The USACE will also utilize $118 million from the supplemental funding for a major flood control project in Johnson County. The funding will allow the USACE to complete a detailed project report and implement a flood control plan, which could include a flood wall or levee, floodproofing, flood-safe redevelopment, and relocation of structures or public facilities. “The people of Johnson County have long-awaiting assistance for flood protection,” said Rogers. “This project will not only make Johnson County a safer place to live, but also has the potential to lower flood insurance rates and improve business opportunities in the City of Paintsville.” The projected duration of the Johnson County flood control plan is to be determined. The USACE tables listing the studies and projects receiving funding are posted at http://www.usace.army.mil/Missions/Civil-Works/Budget/ under "Supplemental Appropriations for Disasters 2018."
07.03.2018	SOMERSET, Ky. -- The Somerset Pulaski County Chamber of Commerce's monthly meeting kicked off today with a special recognition by U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers in honor of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. On June 12, 2018, McConnell became the longest-serving Republican Senate Majority Leader in our nation's history. To commemorate his milestone, Rogers presented McConnell with a tribute in the Congressional Record. Rogers made the following remarks to honor McConnell's achievement: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on becoming the longest serving Republican Senate Leader with a historic tenure of 11 years, 5 months and 10 days. My dear friend and colleague from Kentucky is a masterful political strategist with a once in a generation political mind, and it gives me great pride and happiness to recognize him on the achievement of this remarkable milestone. "For decades, Leader McConnell has dedicated himself to the public service of the Nation, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and the Republican Party. Guided by a deep-seeded conservatism, an unparalleled respect for our great Nation’s Constitution and the institutions of our democracy, and the ever-relevant wisdom of our Founding Fathers, Leader McConnell has demonstrated unmatched political acumen and dynamic leadership. His instincts are second to none: he knows when to fight and he knows when to compromise. The Leader is calculated and tactical, with keen foresight, and he works harder than anyone in the U.S. Capitol building. As a result, he simply gets things done. "While he has been at the helm of our great Party during times of celebration, prosperity and jubilance, the Senator has also never hesitated to step forward and lead the Party in times of turbulence and controversy. Through it all, he has seemed unflappable. Time after time, Senator McConnell has taken on a leadership role and worked tirelessly for the Republican Party by serving as our Party’s Senate Whip, Minority Leader, and Majority Leader. While holding each of these positions, Senator McConnell has worked to unify and guide the Party in the right direction. In doing so, he has rightfully attained the confidence, respect, and admiration of his colleagues and garnered many great accomplishments in the process. "As Senate Minority Leader, Senator McConnell held closely to his conservative values in spite of enormous pressure from an opposing Democratic Party in Congress and Presidential Administration. As the momentum in Congress began to turn, Senator McConnell once again stepped up to the challenge when his colleagues elected him as Senate Majority Leader. While holding this leadership position, he has achieved many successes, including the confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court and passage of the Senate’s Tax Reform bill—both of which required a champion who was not afraid to be a target of criticism. Both victories serve as a testament to Leader McConnell’s vision as one of the finest master strategists in the history of the U.S. Senate. "Throughout Leader McConnell’s tenure, he has also brought great esteem to our state and always remembered to prioritize our old Kentucky home. He has also continued to proudly represent our region since he was first elected as Senator in 1984. It has been a joy of mine to work alongside him on various bills and projects that have positively impacted Kentuckians. Together, we have worked to create jobs, support veterans, protect the coal industry, and sustain agriculture within Kentucky. I look forward to continuing our collaboration to further the prosperity of the people and communities of our beloved Southern and Eastern Kentucky. "Once again, I would like to congratulate Leader McConnell for this major milestone in his career of public service. It has been a pleasure to serve alongside him in Congress and to observe these historic moments of success. I wish him many more years of continued good health, happiness, and success. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back."
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Clare Beichler, a 2018 graduate from Rockcastle County High School, has been accepted into the United States Military Academy at West Point after receiving a congressional nomination from U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05). "Clare is one of only four individuals in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District who recieved my congressional nomination and acceptance into a military academy. It takes impeccable grades and a high school career marked by leadership and volunteer service to enter the ranks of West Point," said Rogers. "Clare was highly recommended by teachers and community leaders for her success as the JROTC Battalion Commander, as well as her passion for serving others." Clare graduated in the top 10% of her class. She excelled during her four years on the academic team and helped coach middle school team members. She was accepted as one of the U.S Military Academy's newest cadets at West Point as part of the Class of 2022. Rogers congratulates Beichler on her acceptance to West Point
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Kelsey Cyrus, a 2018 graduate from Rowan County High School, has been accepted into the United States Naval Academy after receiving a congressional nomination from U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05). "Kelsey is one of only four individuals in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District who recieved my congressional nomination and acceptance into a military academy. It takes impeccable grades and a high school career marked by leadership and volunteer service to enter the ranks of West Point," said Rogers. "Kelsey was highly recommended by teachers and community leaders for her success as a student athlete, as well as her passion for serving others." Kelsey was a 2017 Governor's Scholar and previously attended the U.S. Naval Academy's Summer Leadership Camp. She was captain of the cross-country and track teams, and qualified for state in cross-country all four years of her high school career. She was also a regional finalist in swimming for two years. Kelsey was accepted as one of the U.S Naval Academy's newest cadets for the Class of 2022. Rogers congratulates Cyrus on her acceptance to the Naval Academ
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations bill. The legislation funds the Department of Defense – including operations, readiness, equipment modernization, and health and quality-of-life programs for our troops and military families. The legislation provides a total of $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense. This includes $606.5 billion in base discretionary funding – an increase of $17.1 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill also provides $68.1 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding. This funding level is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act which was approved by the House last month, as well as the recently enacted budget agreement. The legislation also includes a 2.6% pay raise for the military, the largest in nine years. "I was proud to support this bipartisan legislation, which provides our men and women in uniform with the resources necessary to ensure our national security both at home and around the world. This legislation continues the progress that we have made since 2017 to restore the strength—and readiness—of our military,” said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "This legislation is proof that bipartisanship does still exist in Washington. Those from both sides of the aisle were able to come together to ensure that Congress upholds its most sacred responsibility—to provide for our nation’s common defense." The legislation supports equipment upgrades to improve readiness and fully funds the military's request for an increase of 15,600 troops. It also includes $205 million for the National Guard Counter-Drug program, which has provided strong support to the Kentucky National Guard in its missions to eradicate illicit marijuana plants from public lands in Eastern Kentucky. It also provides funding for new U.S. Army Blackhawk and Apache helicopters and Grey Eagle unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), like those stationed at Fort Campbell in Kentucky. Additionally, the Defense legislation provides $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families and retirees. Specifically, the bill provides $364 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. For bill highlights, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/fy_2019_defense_appropriations_bill_-_one_page_summary.pdf For a bill summary, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395335 For a list of floor amendments to the bill, please visit:https://www.congress.gov/
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed one of the most significant bipartisan measures to combat a single drug crisis in the nation's history, called the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) supported the bill to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities and bolster efforts to fight deadly synthetic drugs, like fentanyl. It includes Medicaid, Medicare and public health reform to help patients and families get the help they need. "Our families and communities desperately need additional support to help individuals who are battling an opioid addiction. This comprehensive bill combines multiple initiatives to ensure patients can access the treatment and recovery resources they need to overcome the strongholds of drug addiction," said Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "In 2016, more than 1,400 Kentuckians suffered a deadly drug overdose. This bill will provide hope and much-needed help to save lives and curb the tide of this heartbreaking crisis." Two bills cosponsored by Rep. Rogers were included in the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. The Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act will expand the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) efforts to combat the deadly drug abuse epidemic in the Appalachian region, where the opioid-related overdose rate is 65% higher than the rest of the nation. The Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for students who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. Both bills were previously approved by the House, strengthening the holistic efforts of H.R. 6. Earlier this year, Congress also approved $4 billion in federal funding to address the nation's deadly drug abuse epidemic. For more information about federal efforts to fight the nation's drug abuse epidemic, visit OpioidCrisis.gop. Click here for a full summary of H.R. 6. Click here to read the full text of H.R. 6.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for approving the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, H.R. 2, also known as the Farm Bill. The legislation promotes prosperity in rural America, providing stability for Kentucky farmers, protecting the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and investing in rural broadband development. "This vital legislation will provide a shot in the arm to rural America, which continues to struggle under the weight of economic uncertainty even as other parts of the country experience unprecedented growth. We are making real investments in our rural communities, including those in Southern and Eastern Kentucky, which will undoubtedly lead to new jobs and a brighter future," said Rogers. "This bill also promotes strong agriculture policies to reverse a 52-percent decline in our farm economy. It strengthens the farm safety net, streamlines and reduces regulatory burdens, helps aspiring young farmers and ranchers enter the industry, and maintains trade promotion for our crucial agricultural exports. I am proud to stand with the Kentucky Farm Bureau in support of this bill to keep this faith with our Commonwealth’s farmers and ranchers." "The bill also implements 35 improvements to our nation’s flagship nutrition program, SNAP and boosts workforce development. The Farm Bill modernizes the SNAP program in a way that guarantees every participant has access to the services needed to get back on their feet. It reinvests in the future of SNAP recipients by assisting with education and training to help work-capable adults escape poverty once and for all," continued Rogers. "The legislation also ensures that our seniors, children, individuals with disabilities and pregnant women will continue to receive SNAP benefits as needed, while protecting the sustainability of the program for generations to follow. These reforms will increase opportunity for current SNAP beneficiaries, while preserving the resources for the most vulnerable among us who struggle every week to put food on the table." "Broadband is of vital importance to the future economy and quality of life in our rural region. I'm pleased that this bill increases authorized appropriations for rural broadband to help plant and cultivate the seeds of technological innovation for years to come, and I am confident these federal investments will work in lock step with our vision for Kentucky Wired," said Rogers. The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2019 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill on a vote of 30-21. The legislation funds the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development, and other international activities. The bill will target funding to advance U.S. diplomatic priorities, increase global security, assist America’s allies, and provide assistance for those displaced due to manmade crises and natural disasters. In total, the bill provides $54 billion in both regular discretionary and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. This total is the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Within this amount, OCO funding totals $8 billion and supports operations and assistance in areas of instability and conflict, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and other countries in the Middle East. “This bill provides funding to ensure that America remains secure and that our diplomats and allies around the world have the tools they need to increase stability during this volatile time of international threats and unease,” Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “It will help advance peaceful and effective solutions to the many rising challenges facing the nation and the globe – including terrorism, threats from nuclear and chemical weapons, and emergency response efforts.” “In the face of unprecedented challenges around the globe from terrorism and violent extremism, transnational crime and drugs, and humanitarian crises, I am proud that this legislation continues to strengthen our diplomatic and development tools – core components of our nation’s security framework,” said State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairman Hal Rogers. “Together with our unmatched Armed Forces, our dedicated public servants and their partners help the United States lead by example and build a foundation for peace all over the world. In particular, this bill prioritizes funding for embassy security, combatting drug trafficking, global health and humanitarian assistance, and countering Russian aggression while maintaining vigilant oversight of every dollar spent.” VIDEO: Click the photo to watch Chairman Rogers' Opening Statement about the bill The following amendments to the bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Rogers – The manager’s amendment makes technical and noncontroversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Wasserman Schultz – The amendment allows the Secretary of State to transfer up to $30 million to the Inter-American Foundation to improve security and governance in the Northern Triangle region. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. For a summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395349 For the bill report, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180620/108462/HMKP-115-AP00-20180620-SD005.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180620/108462/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2019-AP00-State_Bill.pdf For the text of Chairman Rogers' opening statement, please visit: halrogers.house.gov
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), a long-time champion for holistic efforts to address the nation's drug abuse epidemic, applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for taking comprehensive action on nearly 50 opioid-related initiatives this week and next week. The legislation covers four main areas: treatment and recovery, prevention, protecting communities and fighting fentanyl. Each day in America, 115 people die from drug overdoses, while more than 2.7 million people will struggle with opioids this year, highlighting the urgency for a multi-pronged approach to save lives. "We have no time to waste in our efforts to save lives and end the devastating toll that this opioid-abuse epidemic is having across the country. It requires a holistic approach with all hands on deck to tackle this crisis from every side, and that's what the House aims to do through the proposed innovative initiatives this month," said Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Causus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "Our rural towns in Eastern Kentucky did not have the capacity to handle this monstrous problem, when it quietly took root in our neighborhoods nearly two decades ago, before spreading nationwide. Given the unique challenges confronting Appalachia, the opioid-related overdose rate is now 65% higher than in the rest of the nation, requiring dire attention at the federal, state and local levels." Two of Rogers' cosponsored bills were approved by the House with overwhelming bipartisan support, including: The Treating Barriers to Properity Act of 2018, H.R. 5294, expanding the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) ability to provide grants in Appalachia for projects and activities aimed at reducing drug abuse in the region; and The Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act, H.R. 5102, bipartisan legislation that Rogers cosponsored alongside Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA). In response to the nation's deadly drug abuse epidemic, the bill offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for students who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. Rogers voted for 25 opioid-related bills passed by the House this week, addressing Medicare coverage, education resources, law enforcement, veterans treatment courts, treatment and recovery centers, and expanded research. Some of the most important bills impacting Kentucky, include: H.R. 5582, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directing the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to evaluate the coverage of abuse-deterrent opioids in Medicare plans; H.R. 5685, the Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act of 2018, directing CMS to compile education resources for beneficiaries regarding opioid use, pain management, and alternative pain management treatments, and to include the resources in the “Medicare and You” Handbook; H.R. 5002, the ACE Research Act, providing the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications; H.R. 5752, the Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018, to streamline and enhance the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) tools to intercept illegal products as they enter the U.S. supply chain; H.R. 5788, the Synthetics, Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act and H.R. 2851, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, enhancing efforts to stop illicit fentanyl at our nation's borders; H.R. 4284, the Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act of 2017, directing Health and Human Services to create a public and easily accessible electronic dashboard linking to all of the nationwide efforts and strategies to combat the opioid crisis; H.R. 5327, the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, establishing Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORCs) that will serve as models for comprehensive treatment and recovery. CORCs would utilize the full range of FDA-approved medications and evidence-based treatments, have strong linkages with the community, generate meaningful outcomes data, and dramatically improve the opportunities for individuals to establish and maintain long-term recovery as productive members of society; and H.R. 5735, the Transitional Housing for Recovery in Viable Environments (THRIVE) Demonstration Program Act, establishing a demonstration program to set aside section 8 housing vouchers for supportive and transitional housing for individuals recovering from opioid use disorders or other substance use disorders. The House will consider the remaining opioid-related bills next week. For more information about the House's comprehensive work to combat opioid abuse, visit opioidcrisis.gop.
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House Appropriations Committee passed two more federal funding bills today for fiscal year 2019 (FY19), including legislation for Defense and Financial Services Appropriations, completing nine of twelve annual discretionary funding bills for congressional consideration. The Defense Appropriations Bill provides $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense to improve operations, readiness, equipment modernization, and health and quality-of-life programs for our troops. This includes $606.5 billion in base discretionary funding – an increase of $17.1 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill also provides $68.1 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding. This funding level is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act which was approved by the House last month, as well as the recently enacted budget agreement. The Defense legislation supports equipment upgrades to improve readiness and fully funds the military's request for an increase of 15,600 troops, along with a 2.6 percent pay increase. It also includes $202 million for the National Guard Counter-Drug program, which has provided strong support to the Kentucky National Guard in its missions to eradicate illicit marijuana plants from public lands in Eastern Kentucky. Additionally, the Defense legislation provides $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families and retirees. Specifically, the bill provides $364 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. "I am particularly pleased that this bill continued to prioritize oversight of the Department’s Electronic Health Record program. Many of you have heard the story of a young veteran in my district who lost his eyesight because his military health records could not be shared with the VA. This was a tragedy, and was wholly preventable. It is my hope that this kind of tragedy will never happen again. This is why I have been pleased by the recent steps that the Department of Defense and VA have taken towards interoperable electronic health records," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "But we as the Congress—and the Appropriations Committee--must continue to monitor this situation closely, and this bill provides us with the ability to do so through strong reporting requirements." The FY19 Financial Services Appropriations Bill provides $23.4 billion for a diverse group of federal agencies responsible for regulating the financial and telecommunications industries; collecting taxes and providing taxpayer assistance; supporting the operations of the White House, the federal judiciary and the District of Columbia; managing Federal buildings; overseeing the federal workforce; and supporting rural broadband expansion. Specifically, the legislation directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to follow congressional intent and place a premium on the value of local news programming, like WYMT-TV, a CBS affiliate in Hazard, Kentucky that has petitioned to be carried on satellite. The bill also encourages the FCC to allocate Universal Service Funds for broadband expansion in rural and economically disadvantaged areas. The Financial Services legislation will also help combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic with an investment of $415 million for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), including $280 million for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and $118 million for other federal drug control programs. It also provides $100 million for grants to community anti-drug coalitions through the Drug-Free Communities Program, and supports Drug Court training and technical assistance with an investment of $2 million. Both bills now move on to the full U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. For a Defense bill summary, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395335 For the Defense bill report, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180613/108421/HRPT-115-HR_Defense.PDF For the text of the Defense bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP02/20180607/108403/BILLS-115-SC-AP-FY2019-Defense-DefenseBill.pdf For a summary of the Financial Services bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395326 For the text of the Financial Services bill, please visit:https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP23/20180524/108372/BILLS-115-SC-AP-FY2019-FServices-FSGGBill.pdf For the Financial Services bill report, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180613/108421/HRPT-115-HR_FSGG.pdf
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers, who serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, applauds subcommittee passage of the fiscal year 2019 federal funding package for State and Foreign Operations. The legislation provides $54 billion for national security and international activities. Chairman Rogers spoke in support of the bill during a committee hearing this morning: "I’d like welcome everyone to today’s markup of the fiscal year 2019 appropriations bill for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. "I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for another year of his tireless work and commitment to move bills through the Committee. The completion of our mark up today will mean 10 of the 12 fiscal year 2019 bills will be through subcommittee, so I congratulate the Chairman. I also want to thank him for his support of the diplomacy and development mission sustained in the bill. The allocation for fiscal year 2019 allows the subcommittee to responsibly provide the resources to support United States foreign policy and security interests around the globe. "I also want to thank Mrs. Lowey for her work on this subcommittee. She cares deeply about the programs funded in this bill and, despite our differences on some issues, we have many common priorities that advance our country’s national security and economic interests. It has been a true pleasure to continue the strong partnership we fostered during my tenure as full committee chair through our work in this setting, and I thank her for her friendship "I would also be remiss if I neglected to note that, as a whole, our subcommittee has a great group of members. Our hearings and meetings are well-attended and I appreciate the interest and knowledge from members, on both sides of the aisle, on the programs that fall under our jurisdiction. So, I thank each of you for your contributions. "Before summarizing the recommendation before you, I want to welcome our newest Member, Mr. Rutherford of Florida. I have been proud to work with Mr. Rutherford on the STOP School Violence Act, which we passed into law earlier this year, so I know he is an engaged, thoughtful and hard-working member. We are glad to have you on the Subcommittee and look forward to working with you as the process moves forward. "Certainly, the importance of diplomacy in world affairs has come to the forefront this week as President Trump has undertaken historic efforts in Singapore to build a lasting peace in the Korean Peninsula. We are all hopeful that the President’s conversations with the North Korean leadership will bear fruit and lead to both prosperity for the people of that region and security for the US and her allies. "The FY19 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill before us today totals $54 billion. This is the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $11.8 billion above the President’s request. "The legislation supports the continued investment in our diplomatic and development capacity across the globe, which are core components of our nation’s security framework. Together with our unmatched Armed Forces, the dedicated public servants at the State Department and USAID help the United States lead by example and build a foundation for peace and security in every corner of the world. "It does so by first, providing over $6 billion for embassy security. This funding will allow the State Department to address the security needs of personnel serving at more than 275 U.S. diplomatic facilities overseas and is in line with the recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability Review Board. "Second, the bill recommends $9.3 billion for security assistance, including $3.3 billion of Foreign Military Financing for Israel, which is an increase of $200 million over last year. "Additionally, the bill maintains support for key partners, such as: Egypt and Jordan, to support stability in the region; Ukraine, Georgia, and other countries facing Russian aggression; and Colombia, Central America, and Mexico, to help counter transnational criminal organizations and stem the flow of drugs into the United States. "Third, the bill upholds American values. The bill increases funds to $2.4 billion funding to promote democracy around the world. It includes $7.6 billion for humanitarian assistance, and $8.7 billion for Global Health Programs, including $845 million for maternal and child health programs. "Fourth, the bill supports the President’s Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand by increasing assistance to countries in our Hemisphere to stop the flow of opioids into the United States, and it fully funds the President’s request to combat transnational criminal organizations. As you all have heard me discuss for years, the opioid epidemic is perhaps the leading domestic crisis of our time, called by the CDC, an epidemic and by the President, a disaster. As our challenge has shifted from prescription painkillers to illicit synthetic opioids, we must engage with our partners on the international stage to stop the flow of heroin and fentanyl through our borders and into our communities. This is a life or death situation, there's no doubt about that, and I am proud that this bill takes important steps to stem the tide of addiction and overdose deaths. We're beginning to see now for the first time, an actual reduction in the prescription pain abuse deaths and while we are seeing that shift from legitimate prescription pills, we're now seeing illicit, illegal heroin taking the place of those pills. The big problem is the heroin is being laced with fentanyl, which is an absolutely incredible killer and the user, who is using heroin laced with fentanyl, has no idea how much fentanyl is in the mix, and is many times fatal - unknown to the user. It's a whole new problem that we're facing now with the fight against this scourge. "Fifth, the bill prioritizes funding for 'global health security', which enables developing countries to be better prepared to prevent, detect, and respond to dangerous infectious disease outbreaks that could have a direct impact on the health of Americans. "And lastly, the bill focuses on making our government more accountable to Congress and the American people by strengthening oversight, improving management, and eliminating redundant programs. "Before turning to Mrs. Lowey, I want to express my appreciation for the work of the staff. "From the majority staff, I want to thank the clerk, Craig Higgins, and his team Susan Adams, Clelia Alvarado, David Bortnick, Winnie Chang, and Dean Koulouris. From my personal office, I also want to thank Megan Bell and Alex Pinson. "From the minority staff, I want to thank Steve Marchese, Erin Kolodjeski, Matt Washington, and Elizabeth Leibowitz. "We appreciate all of your help." The bill now moves on to the full House Appropriations Committee for consideration. VIDEO: Chairman Rogers' opening statement regarding the FY19 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act, H.R. 5294, expanding the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) efforts to combat the deadly drug abuse epidemic in the Appalachian region, where the opioid-related overdose rate is 65% higher than the rest of the nation. Congressman Rogers was an original co-sponsor of the measure. In December, Operation UNITE CEO and President, Nancy Hale, testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee during a hearing entitled, The Opioid Epidemic in Appalachia: Addressing Hurdles to Economic Development in the Region. Rogers introduced Hale to the congressional panel. Congressman Rogers gave the following remarks on the House Floor today before the bill was passed with unanimous support: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It gives me great pleasure to rise in support of H.R. 5294, the Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act. "All of us are painfully aware of the devastating toll taken by opioid addiction and abuse in every corner of our great country. While this epidemic is truly national in its scope today, it actually began to quietly overtake small communities in Appalachia over a decade ago. "Our hills were flooded with painkillers, our hospitals flooded with patients, our churches flooded with helpless parents crying out for help. Our rural towns simply did not have the capacity to handle this monstrous problem. Today, given the unique challenges confronting Appalachia, the opioid-related overdose rate is 65% higher than in the rest of the nation. "But the people of Appalachia are resilient, and they are problem solvers. They have taken important strides to combat this problem holistically. Operation UNITE in my district is perhaps the leading national example – Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education: a three-pronged approach to tackle opioid abuse. "I was heartened and grateful when Chairman Barletta invited Operation UNITE’s CEO, Nancy Hale, to testify before his subcommittee about the unique challenges UNITE confronts in Southern and Eastern Kentucky and the creative solutions they’ve employed to beat back against this scourge. "Today, I remain grateful for his leadership in shepherding H.R. 5294 to the House floor. This bill will bolster the Appalachian Regional Commission’s role in combatting the opioid epidemic. "ARC has always been a valued partner in our fight, but this legislation clarifies that the Commission can and should make targeted investments to reduce barriers to workforce development; attract and retain healthcare services, businesses, and workers; and develop relevant infrastructure, including broadband which can be used for telemedicine treatment. "These investments are critical for my district and the entire Appalachian region, and I urge your support. Thank you, and I yield back." The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. VIDEO: Congressman Rogers speaks on the House Floor in support of H.R. 5294
06.12.2018	Washington, June 12, 2018 The House Appropriations Committee today released the fiscal year 2019 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation funds the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development, and other international activities. The bill will target funding to advance U.S. diplomatic priorities, increase global security, assist America’s allies, and provide assistance for those displaced due to manmade crises and natural disasters. In total, the bill provides $54 billion in both regular discretionary and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. This total is the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Within this amount, OCO funding totals $8 billion and supports operations and assistance in areas of instability and conflict, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and other countries in the Middle East. “This bill provides funding to ensure that America remains secure and that our diplomats and allies around the world have the tools they need to increase stability during this volatile time of international threats and unease,” Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “It will help advance peaceful and effective solutions to the many rising challenges facing the nation and the globe – including terrorism, threats from nuclear and chemical weapons, and current and emerging humanitarian crisis.” “In the face of unprecedented challenges around the globe from terrorism and violent extremism, transnational crime and drugs, and humanitarian crises, I am proud that this legislation continues to strengthen our diplomatic and development tools – core components of our nation’s security framework,” said State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairman Hal Rogers. “Together with our unmatched Armed Forces, our dedicated public servants and their partners help the United States lead by example and build a foundation for peace all over the world. In particular, this bill prioritizes funding for embassy security, combatting drug trafficking, global health and humanitarian assistance, and countering Russian aggression while maintaining vigilant oversight of every dollar spent.” Bill Highlights: State Department Operations and Related Agencies – The bill contains a total of $16.2 billion in base and OCO funding for the operational costs of the State Department and related agencies, as well as diplomacy efforts to enhance peace and stability around the globe. This is $163 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Within this amount, the legislation provides $6.1 billion for embassy security, the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and more than $1 billion above the request. These funds will address needs at more than 275 diplomatic facilities overseas, including facility upgrades and security personnel as recommended in the Benghazi Accountability Review Board report. To meet these and other needs, the bill reduces funding for assessed and voluntary payments to United Nations (UN) organizations and other international bodies by $228 million compared to the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. International Security Assistance – The bill provides a total of $9.3 billion in base and OCO funding for international security assistance. This is $239 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Funds are included for international narcotics control and law enforcement activities, antiterrorism programs, nonproliferation programs, peacekeeping operations, and other critical international security efforts. Antiterrorism programs that provide counterterrorism law enforcement training to partner countries are funded at $360 million. The bill also provides funding to assist foreign countries to detect, disrupt, and dismantle terrorist financial networks and bolster border and airport security. The legislation provides security assistance to key allies and partners. The bill fully funds the $3.3 billion commitment to Israel, beginning the first year of the 10-year memorandum of understanding between the United States and Israel. The bill also continues strong support for Foreign Military Financing programs for Ukraine, Georgia, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia – at or above current levels. The bill maintains robust funding for counter-narcotics and law enforcement efforts in Colombia, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean, and maintains funding to combat cybercrime. The bill supports the President’s Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand by increasing funding to help Mexico secure its borders, combat poppy cultivation, and address heroin and synthetic drug production; increases funding to support precursor chemical control; and increases funding for global demand reduction programs. The legislation directs the Secretary of State to develop an international diplomatic and assistance strategy to stop the flow of opioids into the United States. The legislation also fully funds the request to disrupt transnational criminal organizations, including those involved in the trafficking of heroin and fentanyl. United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Operations – The bill contains $1.6 billion for USAID and the USAID Office of Inspector General – an increase of $3.6 million from the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The legislation also includes oversight measures to ensure the proper management of development programs and the appropriate use of U.S. funds. Bilateral Economic Assistance – The legislation contains a total of $25.5 billion in base and OCO funding for bilateral economic assistance in foreign countries – a decrease of $289 million from the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. This funding is targeted to activities to provide stability in volatile regions and enhance U.S. presence in critical and strategic areas. Within this amount, programs that support development assistance, global health, and humanitarian assistance are prioritized, as well as economic support for key partners like Jordan. In addition, the bill includes $8.7 billion for global health programs, including critical funding for global health security and emerging health threats. International Financial Institutions – The legislation provides $1.5 billion for assistance to foreign countries through international organizations and banks, equal to the the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill does not include funding for several controversial or unnecessary programs, including: The Green Climate Fund, International debt relief, The UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and The UN Population Fund (UNFPA). Increased Oversight, Savings, and Policy Provisions – The bill continues robust requirements to increase program oversight, improve management, and tighten the reins on taxpayer dollars. Some of these provisions include: Syria – The bill allows funding to be used for non-lethal aid in areas not controlled by the Assad regime. Oversight and vetting of recipients is required, and Congress must be notified before any funds are made available. Egypt – The bill provides economic and security assistance if Egypt sustains its strategic partnership with the United States and adheres to the peace treaty with Israel. Afghanistan – The bill continues conditions on assistance for transparency, accountability, and other requirements, including prohibiting funds for new major infrastructure projects. Palestinian Authority –The bill maintains restrictions on the Palestinian Authority (PA), including a requirement to reduce funds to the Palestinians by an amount equivalent to that expended by the PA as payments to prisoners who committed acts of terrorism; prohibiting funding if there is a Palestinian government formed through an agreement with Hamas; and prohibiting funding if the Palestinians are not acting to counter incitement. The bill also includes a provision restricting Palestinians’ representation in the U.S. if they initiate or actively support an International Criminal Court investigation against Israel. Countering Russian Influence and Aggression – The bill increases assistance for Ukraine and maintains funding for Georgia to respond to instability caused by Russian aggression and provides $250 million for the Countering Russian Influence Fund authorized by Congress. Records management – To address problems with record-keeping, transparency, and responsiveness at the State Department and USAID, the bill continues the: Prohibition on funds being used to support private email accounts or servers; and Augmented funding for Freedom of Information Act activities to ensure requests receive responses in a timely manner. Guantanamo Bay – The report directs the Secretary of State to notify Congress if the State Department commits to providing assistance to foreign governments that accept Guantanamo detainees. Assistance to Foreign Governments and Local Organizations – The bill requires certain conditions be met before the Administration can give funds directly to foreign governments and local organizations. Multi-Year Funding Commitments – The legislation includes congressional oversight requirements before the Administration can make multi-year funding commitments to foreign countries or international organizations. UN Reform –The bill provides no funding for the Human Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines that it is in the national security interest and the Council stops its anti-Israel agenda and ensures integrity in the election of its members. The bill also prohibits funds for UN organizations headed by countries that support terrorism. The bill withholds a portion of funds for the UN and international organizations until transparency and accountability measures are met, including by enforcing restrictions on first-class and business-class travel. The bill also allows the Secretary of State to withhold up to 5% of a contribution from a UN organization that has taken an official position against U.S. interests or U.S. allies, including Israel. Arms Trade Treaty – The legislation prohibits funding to implement the UN Arms Trade Treaty. Coal – The bill overrides the anti-coal regulations of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and Export-Import Bank and allows the financing of coal-fired and other power generation projects by U.S. companies overseas. This provision will bolster U.S. job creation and ensure quality, cost-effective technology for developing and other nations. Protecting Life – The bill supports important policy provisions to ensure the respect for life around the globe. For example, the bill: Includes the President’s Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy prohibiting all global health assistance to foreign nongovernmental organizations that promote or perform abortions; Prohibits funding for UNFPA, and caps family planning and reproductive health programs at $461 million, the fiscal year 2008 funding level; and Maintains longstanding pro-life riders, including the “Tiahrt Amendment,” which ensures family planning programs are voluntary; the “Helms Amendment,” which bans foreign aid from being spent on abortions; and the “Kemp-Kasten Amendment,” which prohibits funds to organizations the President determines to support coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization. For the text of the legislation, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP04/20180613/108419/BILLS-115-SC-AP-FY2019-StateForOp-StateBill.pdf
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (R-KY) applauds unanimous approval by the U.S. House of Representatives today of the Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act, H.R. 5102, bipartisan legislation he cosponsored alongside Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA). In response to the nation's deadly drug abuse epidemic, the bill offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for students who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. Congressman Rogers gave the following remarks on the House Floor in support of the bill, after being introduced by the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden, who applauded Rogers' tireless efforts to combat the opioid abuse crisis: "Thank you, Mr. Speaker. "Mr. Chairman, thank you for those words. This is a fight that is critical to the country and I want to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Walden, and the other members of the Energy and Commerce Committee for reporting out for consideration today this multi-pronged assault on this cruel epidemic that is ravaging the country. The committee has responded and I thank you Mr. Chairman for all of these bills here today, especially the bill that we are debating now, and that's the Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act. "We've invested billions of dollars in treatment and recovery services, while only ten percent of Americans with a substance use disorder actually receive treatment. Ninety percent go without treatment. That situation is even more dire in small communities: far too often, when our rural constituents recognize their addiction, they are not able to find treatment or recovery services anywhere close to home. "Those who do enter the treatment profession often don’t stay long due to the stress of the job, they don’t work in areas most in need of their services, or they have difficulty repaying their sizeable student loans. If we want to maximize our down payment for the future, these professionals are the key. "H.R. 5102 creates a substantial student loan repayment benefit for a broad spectrum of medical professionals who enter this noble vocation. It also ensures that these individuals serve in areas most in need of their services for the long haul – offering periodic payments over six years. "With these incentives in place, more of our constituents suffering from addiction will receive the quality treatment they so desperately need. "I want to thank Ms. Clark for her genuine partnership and Dr. Burgess and his team for their guidance. I urge passage of this important bill, and I yield back." The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to read the full text of the bill. VIDEO: Watch Congressman Rogers' speech on the House Floor in support of H.R. 5102 Related press release - May 15, 2018: Rogers, Clark workforce loan repayment bill advances in House
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON— U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced that $923,741 in revenues available through the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (GOMESA) will be distributed to Kentucky for Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) grants that support outdoor recreation and conservation projects. These funds, which are made up of non-taxpayer dollars from Outer Continental Shelf lease revenues, are part of $61.6 million being awarded to the 50 states, the Territories, and the District of Columbia. The funds come through federal matching grants that leverage public and private investment in America’s state and local public parks. “I believe the Land and Water Conservation Fund State and Local Assistance Program demonstrates how we can work together to improve and expand access to public outdoor recreation opportunities, modernize our country’s park and recreation infrastructure, and support Kentucky communities with new jobs and other economic benefits,” said Zinke. This year’s distribution of GOMESA revenues is a significant increase from past years with this level of funding expected to continue into the future. Moving forward, Interior will distribute these funds ahead of the traditional annual LWCF Appropriations.“This is a great state-federal partnership that benefits all citizens,” said Zinke. “Making this change in distribution gets these funds to states so they can start creating public outdoor recreation opportunities earlier.” “The impact of these important grants are visible across southern and eastern Kentucky, in the smiles of children as they play on new and improved playgrounds in the region, and as families enjoy updated picnic areas, trails, campgrounds and the like,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “These grants help preserve our land and water, while improving the quality of life in our communities by providing more recreational options in our own backyard. I applaud Sec. Zinke for passing along lease revenues for projects that folks can enjoy across the country.” After this year, states will receive GOMESA revenues during the winter and traditional LWCF Appropriations during the spring months.The LWCF was established by Congress in 1965 to ensure access to outdoor recreation resources for present and future generations, and to provide money to federal, state and local governments to purchase land and water for the benefit of all Americans. Using zero taxpayer dollars, the LWCF also invests earnings from offshore oil and gas leasing to permanently conserve outdoor recreation areas for public use and enjoyment. The funds enable state and local governments to improve park and other recreation areas in their communities by rehabilitating and upgrading existing parks, creating brand new parks in places that have none, and developing and expanding trail systems that link communities to each other and to additional outdoor recreation opportunities.The GOMESA was enacted by Congress in 2006 and directed certain Outer Continental Shelf revenues to be disbursed to the States through grants under the LWCF State and Local Assistance Program administered by the Department of the Interior and National Park Service.Since the inception of the LWCF, over $4.2 billion has been made available to state and local governments to fund more than 42,000 projects throughout the nation. The allocation for the State and Local Assistance Program is determined by a formula set in the LWCF Act. For more information, please visit www.nps.gov/lwcf. ###
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON -- Several counties in southern and eastern Kentucky will benefit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) Work Plan announced today for fiscal year 2018 (FY18). The plan is directly funded by the comprehensive federal funding package for FY18, passed by Congress earlier this year with support from U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05), who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. During budget hearings with leaders from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Chairman Rogers specifically highlighted the significance of completing projects in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. As a result, the USACE Work Plan includes the Town of Martin Redevelopment Project, foundation repairs at the historic Wix-Howard Cemetery in Harlan County, drinking water and wastewater improvements across the region, and a study to extend the whitewater rafting season in Pike County along the Virginia border. "The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has been a tremendous partner in protecting our resources and expanding our capabilities in southern and eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. "This Work Plan will continue the Corps' critical efforts to improve safety and quality of life across the district. I applaud the Corps for continuing to listen to local leaders and community members who are impacted by each project." The USACE FY18 Work Plan includes the following projects in southern and eastern Kentucky: $4.4 million for the Town of Martin Redevelopment Project's mandatory real estate acquisitions; $3 million in water and wastewater infrastructure construction funds for the Southern and Eastern Kentucky Environmental Infrastructure Program (Section 531); $1 million for foundation repairs at the historic Wix-Howard Cemetery in Loyall, Kentucky; and $90,000 to update the Water Control Manual for the John W. Flannagan Dam along the Kentucky-Virginia border to potentially increase whitewater rafting opportunities in Kentucky. The complete Work Plan is available online at usace.army.mil. Click here for state-by-state construction information. Click here for state-by-state operations and maintenance information.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a $145.4 billion comprehensive federal funding package that combines the fiscal year 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bills (H.R. 5895). U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the bill, which includes a boost in funding for several key programs that impact Southern and Eastern Kentucky, including the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flood control projects, rural healthcare for veterans and support for military families. "This bill enhances national security, provides for our veterans and military families, and invests in rural America," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "Specifically, it adds $10 million for broadband in Appalachia, $50 million for the Appalachian POWER initiative and funding to continue the vital work of flood control in our mountainous region of Eastern Kentucky. The bill also requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to continue efforts to reduce wait times for our veterans with medical needs and provides more opportunities for those suffering with a substance abuse disorder." The Energy and Water portion of the bill totals $44.7 billion with a focus on national security efforts, including nuclear weapons activities, as well as energy and water infrastructure investments. The bill provides $3.8 billion for the Legislative Branch, including annual funding for office operations for Members of the House of Representatives, support for agencies of Congress, security and police forces, services for visitors, as well as Capitol operations and maintenance. The section regarding Military Construction and Veterans Affairs provides a total of $96.9 billion in discretionary funding, a $4.2 billion increase from the current level. The bill includes $921.4 million in Overseas Contingency funding. Bill Highlights for Kentucky Appalachian Regional Commission - The bill provides $155 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission, including $10 million for an Appalachian broadband initiative and $50 million for the Appalachian POWER initiative. Lake Cumberland Water Reallocation Study - The bill prohibits the Army Corps of Engineers from carrying out any water-supply reallocation study at Lake Cumberland, preventing the Corps from assessing additional fees on local communities that access the lake for municipal water supply. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Nonstructural Flood Control Projects – The bill provides $18 million for these projects nationwide. Department of Energy Fossil Energy Research and Development – The bill provides $785 million for Fossil Energy research, which is $58 million more than the current level. This critical research ensures that coal will continue to be a part of our nation’s energy portfolio for generations to come. The bill repeals the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which restricts property owners, and is damaging to coal extraction, farming and other dirt-moving industries in Kentucky. Veterans Electronic Health Records - The bill provides $1.207 billion for the Veterans Electronic Health Record, and it requires an ongoing Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of the development of the record. Substance Use Disorder - The bill cites long wait times for VA Substance Use Disorder treatment and requires a report on reducing these wait times. Rural Health - The bill provides $270 million for the Office of Rural Health, ensuring rural veterans are able to receive the care and benefits they earned through their service. The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. For the floor amendments to the bill, please visit:https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5895/amendments?r=1 For the text of the draft bill, please visit:https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20180604/BILLS-%20115HR5895HR5894HR5786-RCP115-71.pdf For the draft bill reports, please visit: Energy and Water – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/energy_report.pdf Military Construction/Veterans Affairs –https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/milcon_report.pdf Legislative Branch – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/leg_report.pdf
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for approving the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, H.R. 8. The legislation provides for improvements to the Nation's ports, inland waterways, locks, dams, flood protection, ecosystem restoration, and other water resources infrastructure to generate economic growth and protect communities across the country. "This bill continues the successful flood protection work that has been completed across southern and eastern Kentucky over the last three decades, and takes great strides to repair failing water systems to ensure clean drinking water is available for every American," said Congressman Rogers. "It also supports the critical work of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, who work to protect our communities and waterways every day." The bill authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to help repair a water system in Hazard, Kentucky, including a larger water treatment plant, intake structures, raw water pipelines, distribution lines, pumps and storage tanks. WRDA also provides $10 million for other water-related infrastructure and resource protection projects in Kentucky. The legislation now moves on to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Kentucky's successful Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Pilot Program is one step closer to receiving a fourth round of federal funding, thanks to U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), who helped launch the initiative in 2016 to rehabilitate and revitalize AML sites in struggling coal-producing communities for economic development and tourism-related projects. The U.S. House Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Interior and Environment federal funding bill today, including $90 million for the AML Pilot Program. Under the measure, Kentucky would be eligible for an additional $30 million for state-administered grants. Since 2016, Rogers has secured $80 million in federal funding for Kentucky, providing critical funding for coal communities hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry. "This pilot program is one of the most successful job creation and tourism initiatives that we've ever had in Eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Rogers. "So far, funding has been awarded for projects in ten different counties with several more proposals awaiting final approval. It allows local leaders to work with entrepreneurs and other visionaires to bring dream projects to reality." "For example, the new Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park in Pike County will soon be home to three new businesses and create over 1,000 new long-term, sustainable jobs, thanks to seed funding through an AML Pilot Grant," continued Rogers. "Bell, Breathitt, Clay, Floyd and Magoffin counties have also been awarded funding for tourism-related projects that will create new jobs and attract more people to visit our region. Leslie, Harlan, Johnson and Martin counties have also been awarded grant funding to improve infrastructure or improve economic development here at home. Additional projects are in the pipeline and it appears more funding will soon be on the way, upon final congressional approval." Kentucky will also benefit from other components of the FY19 Interior Appropriations bill, including: EPA Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds – The bill includes a total of $2.557 billion, including $1.013 billion for the Drinking Water fund and $1.544 billion for the Clean Water fund. Office of Surface Mining (OSM)/AML Regulatory Grants – The bill includes $68.59 million, which is equal to the 2018 enacted level. Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Funds – The bill includes $75 million, which is $12 million more than the President’s budget request. Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule – The bill repeals the Obama Administration’s 2015 job-killing WOTUS Rule. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT), which is $35 million above the budget request. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to non-taxable federal lands within their counties. Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) – The bill provides $360 million for LWCF programs, such as state and local recreation and battlefield preservation programs. For a full summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=395297 For the text of the bill, please visit:https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP06/20180515/108314/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2019-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf For the bill report, please visit:https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20180606/108402/HRPT-115-HR.pdf
05.29.2018	SOMERSET, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. The winning artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year, representing southern and eastern Kentucky. The first place winner is Lyjesta Buker, a junior at North Laurel High School. Lyjesta's graphite portrait of a young woman entitled "The New Noir" displayed great artistry and detail. She is the daughter of Michele Buker-Bowles and her art teacher is Tony Johnson. Lyjesta will recieve two airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C. along with all of the 2018 winning artists from across the country. "Going to DC has always been on my bucket list, but I never dreamed I would be going to see my artwork hanging in the Capitol Building," said Buker, the winning artist. "It's an incredible honor to win this competition." "Our region has a number of incredibly talented artists and this competition provides a way to highlight our students' work on the national level," said Congressman Rogers, who hosts the competition for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District each year. "Lyjesta's graphite drawing will captivate thousands of visitors in the Capitol Building throughout the year, representing southern and eastern Kentucky." The second place artwork entitled "Great Depths" was submitted by Taylor Bussey, a senior at Paintsville High School. Her acrylic painting features an octopus in the great depths of the ocean. The third place artwork entitled "Tradition" was created by Peyton Duncan, a junior at Johnson Central High School. Peyton's artwork depicts how Christianity is passed down from one generation to the next. All of the artists will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition and a letter from Congressman Rogers for their participation. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, click here. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. Lyjesta Buker displays her winning artwork "The New Noir" Second place artwork "Great Depths" submitted by Taylor Bussey Third place artwork "Tradition" submitted by Peyton Duncan
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- As Memorial Day celebrations kickoff this weekend, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers and U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced plans to introduce legislation adding the historic Mill Springs Battlefield, spanning Pulaski and Wayne counties, to the National Park System. This effort would commemorate the pivotal significance of the site during the Civil War, as the first major victory for the Union Army. "Countless local advocates have worked diligently to preserve the hallowed grounds at Mill Springs where nearly 6,000 Confederate Army soldiers camped before the Union Army claimed this crucial land in its march toward victory," said Rogers. "Senator McConnell and I have proudly worked with local leaders to preserve the land for years, and I have worked closely with Interior Secretary Zinke on this project since his confirmation last year. This national designation would be a tremendous honor for our rural region and a testament to those who have successfully preserved this site for battlefield re-enactments and visitors from across the country to learn more about our American landmark." “I applaud Congressman Hal Rogers for his leadership to preserve the history and culture of Kentucky and our nation by introducing legislation in the House to designate Mill Springs Battlefield as a National Monument,” said McConnell. “Enshrining this American Civil War battlefield among our nation’s most treasured lands can promote the public education, tourism, and remembrance of the Union Army’s first significant victory in the West. I look forward to continuing to work with the Kentucky Congressional delegation and the Department of the Interior to protect this historic battlefield for generations to come.” In 1993, the battlefield was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark District, highlighting the exceptional value it illustrates for our nation's heritage. The Mill Springs Battlefield Association, Inc. (MSBA) has tirelessly worked to preserve the site by acquiring more than 400 acres of land in Pulaski and Wayne counties. The association also invested $1.7 million in 2006 to build a 10,000-square-foot Visitor Center and Museum, which exhibits authentic artifacts from the Civil War. This bill is the second in a two-part process to add the battlefield to the federal system. First, the National Park Service (NPS) must complete a study to evaluate Mill Springs’ addition to the park system. Congress passed legislation in 2014 to authorize this study, which is expected to be completed later this year. Second, Congress must pass legislation officially authorizing the battlefield’s addition to the NPS, which is what this latest bill would accomplish. Parallel to this legislative effort, most of the Kentucky delegation has also urged U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to recommend to the President that he designate the historic battlefield as a National Monument through the Antiquities Act of 1906. Senator McConnell and Representatives Rogers, Andy Barr, Brett Guthrie, James Comer and John Yarmuth sent a letter with this request to the Secretary in December 2017. As part of this effort, just last week Acting Director of the National Park Service Dan Smith visited Mill Springs and met with local leaders to evaluate the addition of Mill Springs in the National Park System. The legislation was introduced in the House on May 25 and will be introduced in the Senate in June. Click here for more information about H.R. 5979.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement applauding Gina Haspel, an Eastern Kentucky native, for being sworn in as the first female Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). “I’m incredibly proud to have an Eastern Kentucky native at the helm of our nation’s flagship intelligence agency. Gina Haspel’s remarkable career with the CIA spans more than three decades and has proven that she is fully prepared to lead this agency in disrupting global terrorism networks and strengthening our nation’s complex counterterrorism efforts. “Her distinguished service has been marked with the highest honors, including the George H.W. Bush Award for Excellence in Counterterrorism, the Intelligence Medal of Merit and the Presidential Rank Award. President Trump also commended her for serving a ‘crucial role in our fight against al Qaeda’ and earning the utmost respect of her peers in the field. “But, hailing from Boyd County, Kentucky, what strikes me the most is that she exemplifies eastern Kentucky—and eastern Kentucky values. Eastern Kentuckians work harder than anyone else. They go to work before the sun rises, and often return home after the sun sets. They do not quit. They are loyal. They put their families, friends, our State and our Country above themselves. They look for ways to serve, and ask for nothing in return. This is Director Gina Haspel. “I am confident that Director Haspel will serve our nation with great integrity and tenacity to ensure America and her allies remain safe for years to follow. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I look forward to working with her in the future.” Click here to read more about Director Haspel’s impressive career serving our nation.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Hal Rogers (R-KY) have led a bipartisan group of members of Congress in calling on President Donald Trump not to shift management of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program from the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to the Department of Justice. The program’s location within the Office of the President and not a specific agency has fostered an unprecedented level of cooperation, coordination, and information-sharing between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies across the nation. “As strong supporters of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, we write to urge to you to maintain the HIDTA program within the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP),” the federal lawmakers wrote. “…ONDCP has ensured that state and local law enforcement agencies have a leading role in the program’s management in each region. This allows each region to effectively tailor strategies to the unique challenges and threats that the region is facing while still focusing on accomplishing the goals of the National Drug Control Policy. This local and state input is critical not only to the effectiveness of HIDTA, but also to informing drug policy at the federal level.” The federal lawmakers continued, “At a time when communities across the country are struggling with one of the worst drug crises in our nation’s history, we respectfully urge you not to disrupt one of the most effective counter-narcotics law enforcement tools in the federal government’s toolbox.” In addition to Torres and Rogers, the letter was also signed by Reps. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Bill Pascrell (D-NY), Pete Sessions (R-TX), Lucille Royball-Allard (D-CA), Evan Jenkins (R-WV), Jim Costa (D-CA), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Andy Barr (R-KY), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Andre Carson (D-IN), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Tim Ryan (D-OH), David B. McKinley (R-WV), Peter Defazio (D-OR), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Joe Kennedy, III (D-MA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). Torres represents California’s 35th congressional district. She previously worked for more than 17 years as a 9-1-1 dispatcher for the Los Angeles Police Department. Rogers represents Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District. Fifteen years ago, he launched a non-profit organization called, Operation UNITE, in response to the deadly prescription drug abuse epidemic that first erupted in his rural region, utilizing a three-pronged approach including law enforcement, treatment and education. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear President Trump, As strong supporters of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, we write to urge to you to maintain the HIDTA program within the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). Since its creation in 1988, HIDTA has become one of the nation’s most important tools in the fight against drug trafficking. HIDTA has received continued bipartisan support from Congress, and from law enforcement and criminal justice experts at the state, local, and national levels, because of its well-earned reputation for effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability. In 2017 alone HIDTA programs resulted in the investigation of 8,067 drug trafficking and money laundering organizations, and in the seizure of approximately 2,767 tons of marijuana plants, 117 tons of cocaine, 28 tons of methamphetamine, 5.2 tons of heroin, and more than 1 ton of prescription narcotics. Furthermore, HIDTA programs apprehended over 50,923 fugitives in the same year. Key to HIDTA’s effectiveness is its management by the ONDCP. Because it is located within the Office of the President and not a specific agency, ONDCP has been able to be a completely neutral broker. This neutrality has fostered an unprecedented level of continual collaboration between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies across our nation. This neutrality was the cornerstone the HIDTA Program was built upon. In addition, ONDCP has ensured that state and local law enforcement agencies have a leading role in the program’s management in each region. This allows each region to effectively tailor strategies to the unique challenges and threats that the region is facing while still focusing on accomplishing the goals of the National Drug Control Policy. This local and state input is critical not only to the effectiveness of HIDTA, but also to informing drug policy at the federal level. We therefore join the many state and local law enforcement agencies, the National Governors Association, and numerous grassroots organizations and services providers from across the country that have expressed their opposition to shifting HIDTA management to the Department of Justice. While we recognize that it is unusual for an office within the White House to manage a federal grant program, we believe that HIDTA’s record of success speaks for itself. At a time when communities across the country are struggling with one of the worst drug crises in our nation’s history, we respectfully urge you not to disrupt one of the most effective counter-narcotics law enforcement tools in the federal government’s toolbox. Thank you in advance for considering this important request. Sincerely, ### Press Release Link
05.18.2018	LONDON, Ky. -- Tucker Martin, a 2017 graduate from South Laurel High School, has been accepted into the United States Military Academy at West Point after receiving a congressional nomination from U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05). "Tucker is one of only four individuals in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District who recieved my congressional nomination and acceptance into a military academy. It takes impeccable grades and a high school career marked by leadership and volunteer service to enter the ranks of West Point," said Rogers. "Tucker was highly recommended by teachers and community leaders for his success in academics and athletics, as well as his passion for serving others." Martin graduated fourth in his class from South Laurel High School and was a member of the baseball and golf teams. He will become one the U.S Military Academy's newest cadets at West Point as part of the Class of 2022. Congressman Rogers presented Tucker Martin with a certificate of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), unanimously passed through the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Responding to the nationwide opioid epidemic, the legislation offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for participants who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. The bill now awaits a vote by the full House of Representatives. “Every new treatment professional we invest in could mean survival for someone’s child, parent, sibling, or friend who may not have had access to treatment otherwise. Communities across the nation are calling on Congress for solutions and this legislation provides the support needed to facilitate their recovery and health,” said Clark. “I am grateful for the Energy and Commerce Committee’s support of this legislation and hope to see leadership bring the legislation to the floor as soon as possible.” “Each step we take toward improving access to treatment is a step toward saving more lives and helping restore families torn apart by substance abuse,” said Rogers. “It is abundantly clear that the opioid abuse epidemic requires a holistic approach to turn the tide of deadly overdoses, now taking the lives of 115 Americans every day. This bill will open the door for more students to be a part of the growing heroic team of treatment professionals so desperately needed across the country. I applaud the Energy and Commerce Committee’s swift action to bring this critical, time-sensitive legislation before the House for a vote.” Experts report that only 10 percent of the 22 million Americans with a substance use disorder receive treatment. This treatment gap is largely attributed to the shortage of workers in the substance use disorder field. To qualify for the program, participants must agree to be employed in a full-time substance use disorder treatment job in a high need area for up to six years. That job must involve serving in a direct patient care role and can include serving as a physician, registered nurse, social worker, recovery coach, or any other role listed in the bill. Participants may serve in a wide range of facilities, so long as they are located in an area with a shortage of mental health professionals or a high rate of drug overdose deaths. The bill gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services the flexibility to add eligible professions or facilities as the epidemic evolves. Full text of the Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act can be found here.
05.11.2018	STANFORD, Ky. -- Lincoln County High School Senior, William "Reed" Campbell, recently received a Congressional nomination for the U.S. Air Force Academy from U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05). On Senior Night at Lincoln County High School, Congressman Rogers attended the ceremony to announce Campbell's acceptance into one of the nation's most prestigious military academies. "Reed is one of only four students in Kentucky's Fifth Congresssional District who received my Congressional nomination and acceptance into a military academy. It takes impeccable grades and a high school career marked by leadership and volunteer service to enter the ranks of our prestigious Air Force Academy," said Rogers. "He came highly recommended by leaders throughout his community for being an outstanding young man of high character, with great conviction for serving others." Campbell has received a number of accolades for his achievements, including becoming a Governor's Scholar, a Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership Delegate, a regional president for Future Farmers of America, a Senior Airman for the Civil Air patrol and Captain of the Cross Country Team. Campbell will become one of the U.S. Air Force Academy's newest cadets after graduating from Lincoln County High School. Rep. Rogers presents Reed Campbell with a certificate of acceptance into the U.S. Air Force Academy
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) attended a special meeting of the Gateway Area Development District (ADD) to provide an update about on-going work in Washington, DC and across Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Congressman Rogers ended his remarks with a tribute to Gail Wright who is retiring after dedicating nearly 30 years as Executive Director of the Gateway ADD. Congressman Rogers recently gave a tribute on the House Floor to honor Wright's tireless efforts on behalf of the region and he presented her with a framed copy of his remarks, which are recorded in the Congressional Record. "Gail has been an incredible force for the Gateway area," said Rogers. " She knows the inner workings of grant funding; she knows how to bring strategic partners together; and she is passionate about making this region a better place to live for our children and grandchildren." Wright has been a long-time champion for economic and community development in the Gateway area. She has assisted local communities with critical infrastructure improvements and generating new innovative opportunities to spur job creation and regional development. Josh Farrow has been named as Wright's successor. He was Associate Director of Project Development. Congressman Rogers honors Gail Wright upon her retirement from the Gateway ADD Congressman Rogers spoke to the Gateway ADD about work in Washington and Eastern Kentucky
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- With historic federal funding and a holistic plan in place to address the nation's drug abuse crisis, Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05), Chairman Emeritus of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, saluted U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions today for his efforts to address the opioid abuse epidemic with a three-pronged approach including prevention, treatment and law enforcement. "Mr. Attorney General, you could not do a better job than elevate this issue in the minds of the public and law enforcment. It's a calamity as you have said. We are losing more people to opioid deaths than car wrecks and gun violence combined," said Rogers. "The fentanyl problem with heroin is the new fatal twist. What can you tell us about trying to stop the flow of fentanyl from China to Mexico, through the drug cartels in Mexico, and into the distribution system in the U.S.? What can you tell us about that and are we making any progress on fentanyl prevention?" "China is the main source of fentanyl," responded Sessions. "The President has raised it with Chinese leaders personally. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein has been to China and talked with them. DEA and FBI both have a presence there and I have raised it with two different Chinese delegations to the United States and they have made promises. They have taken some steps. It has not yet impacted us successfully, but we are urging them, and I think we have a right to expect them to be cooperative in a matter this important to the people of the United States." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the rate of drug overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids, other than methadone, such as fentanyl increased by 88 percent from 2013 to 2016. From 2015 to 2016, the rate doubled. "The FBI has doubled its team. They've figured out a way to hammer these dark websites where people order it through the mail," continued Sessions. "I'm more confident now that we can make progress in that area. I think the goal is clear to reduce this problem, not just preside over a continuing problem, but to go at it hard. Based on my experience as a prosecutor on the judiciary committee, I think we can do it." "I think when the history books are written, Mr. Attorney General, this will be the most important fight that you are leading," said Rogers in his closing comments. To watch the full hearing visit appropriations.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. Chairman Rogers questions Attorney General Sessions about the national drug abuse epidemic
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- During budget hearings on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, brought the nation's opioid abuse epidemic to the forefront of discussions with Admiral Paul F. Zukunft, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard and Dr. Scott Gottlieb, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). "We are continuing to see the problem grow worse. Overdose deaths are approaching 60,000 each year. You've increased seizures and interdictions by a great amount. It's astounding. In 2017, you interdicted 223 metric tons of cocaine, more than $6 billion worth from 708 suspected smugglers. It's great work," said Chairman Rogers to Admiral Zukunft. "Columbia is a great friend of the U.S., but they have stopped eradicating the poppy and we're being flooded. It's killing people by the tens of thousands. I salute you on the seizures you are making, but it's not quite enough." Later in the afternoon, Chairman Rogers applauded Dr. Gottlieb for taking great strides to impact the drug abuse crisis through the FDA's regulatory authority. Since becoming the FDA Commissioner nearly one year ago, Dr. Gottlieb has taken the following actions: he formed an Opioid Policy Steering Committee to examine mandatory pain management education for healthcare professionals; removed Opana Extended Release (ER) from the market after postmarketing data showed significant potential for abuse and misuse; implemented a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) plan for prescribing immediate release opioids for the first time to weigh the risks of overdose and abuse; approved a small electrical nerve stimulating device to help reduce the symptoms of opioid withdrawal; issued guidance to encourage the development of generic abuse-deterrent formulations of opioids; and he joined the Federal Trade Commission to release a joint warning letter to marketers and distributors of 12 opioid cessation products for illegally marketing unapproved products. "Upwards of 50 percent of people who become addicted, their first exposure will be from a lawful prescription. So, people are still becoming addicted from a prescription, although more and more people, their first exposure is increasingly a street drug, which is a low-cost alternative. What we want to do is put in place more measures that could help rationalize prescribing and make sure that when pills are dispensed, it's for an appropriate duration," explained Dr. Gottlieb. "So, the idea is that we would build in place evidence-based guidelines perhaps in labeling and perhaps by providers in health systems to better adjust what gets dispensed. We are working through that right now." "The miracle drug hopefully that comes along is an effective pain management pill that is not addictive," said Congressman Rogers to Dr. Gottlieb. "NIH and CDC are working heavily to make that happen. Have you any thoughts on that?" "When it comes to chronic administration of any drug for the treatment of pain, there has been no free lunch," said Dr. Gottlieb. "All the drugs have had some liability associated with them whether they are safety issues with chronic administration, abuse potential; so, we would need to look at this very carefully, but we do see some promise in the early pipeline." To watch the hearing with the U.S. Coast Guard, click here. To watch the hearing with the FDA, click here. Chairman Rogers questions federal leaders about ongoing efforts to combat the drug abuse epidemic
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds President Trump for issuing a Major Disaster Declaration for Kentucky, releasing federal funds to help communities across Southern and Eastern Kentucky recover from severe storms, flooding, landslides and mudslides that occurred February 9-14, 2018. Eighteen counties in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District are included in the declaration for Public Assistance through FEMA, including: Bell, Breathitt, Clay, Floyd, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Magoffin, Martin, Owsley, Perry, Pike and Whitley Counties. "This federal declaration will provide our hardest hit counties with the resources necessary to clean up and repair or replace damaged facilities, roadways, bridges, and the like," said Congressman Rogers. "I'm grateful for the flood control projects that are in place along the Cumberland and Big Sandy Rivers that protected our communities from further damage." The entire Commonwealth of Kentucky is eligible for assistance through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. For more information, visit kyem.ky.gov.
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- In February, Congress passed and President Trump signed into law a historic federal tax reform bill called the Tax Cuts and Job Creation Act (H.R. 1). It included a plan to designate “Opportunity Zones” across the country to boost economic development through tax incentives where poverty and unemployment rates remain high. Each state was required to designate the zones utilizing census data for low-income tracts, among other economic-based factors. Governor Bevin announced today the U.S. Department of Treasury certified 144 Opportunity Zones in 84 Kentucky counties. Several tracts were designated in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District including parts of: Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Clay, Floyd, Harlan, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Magoffin, Martin, McCreary, Morgan, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Pulaski, Rowan, Wayne and Whitley Counties. “We continue to see more benefits as a result of passing meaningful tax reform. The Opportunity Zones are not designed as a fix-all, but they will certainly help deliver support for our communities most in need, especially in Eastern Kentucky where our small towns are still reeling from the residual War on Coal,” said Congressman Rogers, who voted in support of the federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Creation Act. “I’m pleased to see Governor Bevin’s commitment to Eastern Kentucky through these designations and I look forward to working alongside each community to maximize the regional impact of the important investments ahead.” The designation incentivizes economic development projects in low-income areas through federal tax breaks and temporary deferrals for those located in Opportunity Zones. Governor Bevin announced the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development will oversee the state’s program through the Kentucky Opportunity Zone Initiative and launched KYOZ.org to provide additional information.
04.04.2018	ATLANTA, GA -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) introduced Kellyanne Conway, White House Adviser, to more than 3,000 attendees at the 2018 National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit on Wednesday morning. "I applaud President Trump for raising awareness about the nation's opioid abuse epidemic and his commitment to help find and implement holistic solutions," said Rogers, as he welcomed Conway to the stage. "Just last month, he signed into law the 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, dedicating over $10 billion to combat the drug abuse epidemic in America." Conway highlighted two of President Trump's new policies to address the issue. "The President has called for a reduction in prescribing over the next three years by 30 percent," said Conway. "Here you have the Rx awareness campaign that was done by the CDC and the prescribing protocols that have been put out." Conway said the Veterans Health Administration, last year, became the first hospital system in our nation to publish its opioid prescribing, recognizing that pain management may not always require pain medication. "Also the President has called for the interoperability of our nation's prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP). As you know 49 of the 50 states have a PDMP - we're working on the 50th and hope they will come forward," said Conway. "We see many organic improvements within the system of the physicians and the pharmacists - a better education that they are undertaking. You'd be suprised to see some of the medical schools did not always have safe prescribing as part of their curriculum, so that's fast changing, which is great." The White House recently launched the Crisis Next Door initiative with a website for Americans to share their personal stories about addiction and recovery to raise awareness, share solutions and provide hope. Attendees have the opportunity to record their own stories in the Exhibit Hall during the summit, which will be featured online at http://crisisnextdoor.gov. "At the White House on October 26th, the President went first by sharing the story of his older brother, Fred Junior, succombing to his alcohol addiction at the age of 42. The President talked about his own family's experience and how it impacted him and his life," Conway added. Conway said the Trump Administration's work reflects the same holistic model of the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, incorporating law enforcement, treatment and prevention efforts. "I want to thank each and every one of you very much for being on the front lines for many, many years," Conway said in closing. "Consider us a partner, but also a resource and also a people who will listen." Rep. Rogers welcomes Kellyanne Conway to 2018 Rx Summit Conway discusses the nation's public health emergency with Doug Edwards, Director of the Institute for the Advancement for Behavioral Healthcare, at the 2018 summit White House Adviser Kellyanne Conway and Congressman Rogers
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) has signed a Record of Decision (ROD) regarding the construction of a high security prison in Letcher County, Kentucky. The ROD is a public document, the final step in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process, and it officially signals the agency’s intent to move forward with this important project. “With funding in place and the completion of environmental studies, today’s announcement is a tremendous milestone for Letcher County and the surrounding area,” said Congressman Rogers. “This new high security prison will create hundreds of new jobs in a region that has been plagued by the downturn in the coal industry. BOP estimates the facility alone will have 300-400 employees, and we’ll see hundreds of indirect jobs as well. The Letcher County Planning Commission has done an incredible job muddling through this complex process and preparing the community for this important project.” U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions informed the Congressman of the BOP’s decision this afternoon. BOP selected a 700-acre site on reclaimed mine land in Roxana for the facility. “Not only will this project be a long-term economic shot in the arm for Eastern Kentucky, but it will also provide much needed relief for the federal prison system,” said Rogers. “BOP still has challenges with overcrowding in high security prisons. This new facility will help increase safety and security for inmates and prison staff alike.” Congressman Rogers first secured $5 million to study several potential sites in Letcher County in Fiscal Year 2006. Since then, BOP has been engaged in an extensive process to identify a suitable location and conduct the required environmental studies. The final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was completed in September 2017. While Congressman Rogers chaired the House Appropriations Committee, Congress secured roughly $500 million necessary to construct the prison ($444 million in Fiscal Year 2016 and $50 million in Fiscal Year 2017). BOP will next begin the process of acquiring the land that will comprise the site of the new prison, which they expect will take roughly 12 months. They will also begin to work with local officials on infrastructure improvements that may be needed to support the new prison. Local leaders have already begun to plan for these upgrades and have applied for federal funds for support.
04.03.2018	ATLANTA, GA – A bipartisan panel of U.S. Senators and House members joined a Congressional Forum this morning at the 2018 National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia to discuss ongoing federal efforts to combat the nation’s public health emergency on opioids, as well as their vision for future life-saving efforts. In 2016 alone, over 42,000 Americans died after overdosing on opioids, a 28 percent increase from 2015. Moreover, for each of these tragically fatal overdoses, there were over 30 nonfatal overdoses. The 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, passed by Congress and signed by President Trump last month, marks the largest federal anti-drug investment in U.S. history, allocating nearly $10 billion to combat the nation’s challenges with drug abuse. “Though our districts are very different, the human toll taken by the opioid epidemic is just the same,” said Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. “Every member sees the critical and urgent need to make these targeted investments in our nation’s future. Despite the oftentimes heated political rhetoric in today’s age, Congress has come together, cast partisanship aside, and worked to find solutions to the opioid crisis.” Congressman Rogers and Congresswoman Katherine Clark introduced the bipartisan Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act to incentivize medical professionals to enter the addiction treatment profession by offering them up to $250,000 in student loan repayment. “In my district, I’ve heard repeatedly that there just simply aren’t enough treatment specialists available to help with the growing number of Americans struggling with substance abuse disorder,” said Rep. Clark (D-Mass.). “The lack of workforce available in this field is an urgent national problem.” The rate of drug overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids (other than methadone), such as fentanyl, increased by 88 percent from 2013 to 2016. From 2015 to 2016, the rate doubled. “The economic incentives to move to fentanyl are overwhelming. If you are in a drug gang and spend $6,000 on heroin, you can sell it for $80,000 on the streets of the United States. If you spend the same $6,000 on fentanyl, you can sell it for $1.6 million on the streets of America,” said Sen. Edward Markey (D–Mass.). “The INTERDICT Act, signed into law earlier this year by President Trump, equips our border control agents with advanced technological tools and resources that help stop the flow of fentanyl across our borders.” Several Members mentioned the National Center of Health Statistics’ recent report of decreased longevity in America being largely attributed to the opioid epidemic. The average life expectancy declined from 78.7 in 2015 to 78.6 in 2016. “Stigma has allowed addiction to go untreated for years. For too long our policies reflected a belief that addiction was a character defect,” said Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-NH). “When we stigmatize we lose; we lose people; we lose untapped talent; we lose opportunity and possibility. Over time we see and feel the ripple effects of such loss, as we are feeling now with this crisis in our prisons, our schools, our neighborhoods and our economy.” The federal delegation shared details about bills that they have introduced to address the epidemic through a holistic effort incorporating law enforcement, treatment, prevention and research. “H.R. 4275, the Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act, will help pharmacists and give them the tools and the materials that they need to identify fraudulent prescriptions and forged prescriptions so we can educate them about what to look for,” said Rep. Buddy Carter (R-Ga.), the only pharmacist in Congress. “At the federal level we have made a beginning, but this war will not be won from Washington. It will be won on the streets of our cities in rural America, and in our classrooms, our churches, and in neighborhood clinics who take away the stigma and increase the understanding,” said Rep. William Lacy Clay (D-Mo.). To watch the Congressional Forum and learn more about the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, visit facebook.com/rxsummit.com. Congressman Rogers gives Congressional Update Keynote during the 2018 National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Last week, Congress passed the 2018 Consolidated Approprations Act to provide federal funding for government programs and operations, including the military, national security, veterans benefits, infrastructure, school safety and combating drug abuse. The bill, which also boosts funding to secure our borders and enforces immigration laws by 30 percent, was signed into law by President Trump. It also provides the largest pay raise for American troops in eight years and historic funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs to enhance care for our veterans. "This legislation provides the largest increase in annual defense funding since the beginning of the War on Terror. It rebuilds and modernizes our military, and gives our warfighters the resources they need to defend our homeland and combat terrorism overseas," said Rogers, who voted in support of the legislation. "It also extends more resources to families of our troops and provides better care for our veterans, enhancing access to proper medical care and reducing the backlog of disability claims." Bill Highlights for Defense, Homeland Security & Veterans: Defense The FY18 Defense bill rebuilds our military, supports our troops, and invests in critical weapons and equipment. It also targets additional funding to requirements identified by military leaders, including higher troop levels, readiness efforts, infrastructure, and equipment modernization. Overall Defense Spending – provides our men and women in uniform over $61 billion more dollars over last year’s levels, a total of $654 billion. This is the biggest year-to-year increase in defense spending in 15 years. Taking Care of Soldiers – includes a 2.4% pay raise for our troops. It also provides $1.4 billion to ensure quality housing for the more than one million service members using these services, and $708 million for new or existing military medical facilities to continue support and care for our troops, their families, and wounded troops abroad. Combating Global Threats – funds our ongoing operations against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and supports increased US military presence in European nations being threatened by Russian aggression through the European Deterrence Initiative. Readiness and Training – supports readiness programs, increased flight and training time, as well as depot maintenance in order to ensure that our troops and their equipment are prepared for the demands of responding to worldwide threats. Health Care & Research – provides $34.4 billion—an increase of $300 million from FY17-- for the Defense Health Program. This funding will provide comprehensive care for our active duty troops and retirees and crucial research on cancer, traumatic brain injury, cancer, and psychological health. Homeland & Border Security Protecting Our Borders - Customs and Border Protection is receiving a $1.8 billion million increase in funding—which will be used to hire more agents, advanced border technology, and utilize new tools that will help stop the illegal flow of drugs and people across our borders. It also provides for more than 90 miles of a border wall system (16 more miles than the President’s request) by including $1.57 billion for a physical barrier and associated technology and personnel. The bill includes $655.6 million for border and port technology: communications, surveillance systems, opioid detection, and the National Targeting Center. Enforcing Immigration Laws - Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is getting a $641 million increase in funding, which will be used for detention, electronic monitoring, GPS tracking, and hiring of additional officers to tackle our nation’s illegal immigration crisis. Deporting Illegal Immigrants -- ICE receives $159 million to support the identification, location, and arrest of removable aliens in the U.S. Veterans Overall VA Funding - Provides $81.5 billion for the VA, including the largest funding increase for the VA in history - $7.1 billion (9.5%) above FY17. It funds VA medical care at $68.8 billion, providing care for more than 7 million veteran and dependent patients. The bill includes $782 million for the new VA electronic health record, ensuring our veterans receive proper care, with timely and accurate medical data transferred between identical systems at the VA and the Department of Defense. The bill seeks to further reduce the disability claims backlog to ensure adequate compensation and care for the almost 500,000 veterans still awaiting final decisions on their claims. VA Medical priorities - provides funding for the VA’s medical priorities, including $386 million for opioid abuse prevention, $8.4 billion for mental health care, $186 million for suicide prevention outreach, $316 million for traumatic brain injury treatment, $7.3 billion for homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training, and $270 million for rural health initiatives, ensuring veterans in rural America, and Kentucky, can receive the care they earned. To learn more about Kentucky-related highlights in the law, visit halrogers.house.gov.
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Among congressional priorities included in the 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act that was signed into law last week, is nearly $4 billion to combat the nation's public health emergency on opioid abuse. It invests billions in treatment, prevention and law enforcement efforts to stem the rapid rise in deadly overdose deaths. In 2016, more than 42,000 Americans lost their lives as a result of a drug overdose. "The federal response largely reflects the multi-faceted approach that Operation UNITE has successfully utilized over the last 15 years to hold drug dealers responsible, help addicts gain access and support for treatment, and prevent drug use through education in our communities and schools," said Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "Today, like every day, approximately 115 Americans will die of a drug overdose, and we simply must remain vigilent in our efforts to combat the epidemic from every angle. This legislation will ensure that our professionals and community advocates have the resources they need to help save lives and change the course for future generations." In an effort to raise awareness about America's opioid epidemic, Operation UNITE will help host the 7th annual National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit next week, April 2-5, 2018 in Atlanta, Georgia. It is now the largest national conference addressing the growing global opioid crisis, drawing federal, state and local leaders, including both public and private sectors, and advocates from around the world. Anti-Drug Funding Together we’ve made progress combatting drug abuse in Southern and Eastern Kentucky and across the Commonwealth, but more must be done to curb ever-increasing drug overdose rates and put people on the path to recovery. Consequently, this bill achieves record funding levels to comprehensively support local, state, regional and federal efforts to combat addiction and drug trafficking, including: Drug Enforcement and Criminal Justice Activities The bill includes significant increases in law enforcement, prosecution agencies and grant resources for state and local criminal justice entities. $2.1 billion is included for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), $419.5 million of which is specifically allocated to combat the diversion of prescription drugs. $10 million is provided to support state and local law enforcement efforts to clean up methamphetamine labs, and $8 million is continued for Anti-Meth Task Forces. $542 million is provided for Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement, and the bill provides $280 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program to assist federal, state, and local authorities clean up trafficking hot-spots, which will enable the Appalachian HIDTA to continue its work in southern and eastern Kentucky. The bill also includes $236 million for the National Guard Counter-Drug program, an increase of $120 million from the President’s request and $2 million more than the FY17 level. The Kentucky National Guard Counter-Drug program is among the best in the nation, and has eradicated millions of dollars of illegal drugs. Byrne Justice Assistance Grants are funded at $415 million, an increase of $109 million from the FY17 level. This funding will support all components of the criminal justice system, including drug and gang task forces to domestic violence programs, treatment, and justice information sharing. Overall, it will help keep Kentucky safe. For Drug Courts, the bill includes $164 million for the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help non-violent offenders struggling with addiction. An additional $20 million is included for Veterans Treatment Courts to help our men and women in uniform who are struggling with addiction. Activities under the Second Chance Act are also funded at $85 million. Treatment Over $4 billion is included for treatment services alone, across a broad spectrum of programs within the federal government. Most notably, over $5 billion is provided for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), including a $1 billion increase for its treatment programming and a $25 million increase to its prevention programming. The bill also provides an additional $105 million to allow National Health Service Corps members to deliver Substance Use Disorder treatment services to our communities. The bill also appropriates more than $475 million for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to continue its Opioid Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention program – more than double the amount appropriated last year. The legislation also encourages HHS to facilitate training of healthcare professionals and paramedics and to increase access to emergency devices, like Naloxone, and allocates. Prevention, Recovery and Research The legislation provides $30 million to implement and enhance Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), which help doctors make good prescribing decision and investigators root out bad actors. $99 million is approved for the Drug Free Communities Program, which provides funding to community-based groups seeking to prevent youth substance abuse. $119 million is available for a Strategic Prevention Framework, which provides prevention professionals a comprehensive process for addressing the substance misuse and related behavioral health problems facing their communities. $7.434 million is provided specifically for Recovery Community Services Program and Building Communities of Recovery to support those in their journey to overcome addiction. The National Institute for Health (NIH) is slated to receive an overall increase of $3 billion increase for life-saving research, $500 million of which is focused on efforts to combat opioid addiction. To learn more about Kentucky-related highlights in the FY18 Consolidated Appropriations Act, visit halrogers.house.gov.
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- The 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, signed into law last week, provides critical funding for the federal government through the remainder of the fiscal year, including a number of provisions to ensure coal remains a vibrant part of America's energy portfolio. The law also boosts our military and national defense, enhances school safety, combats the nation's opioid epidemic, and supports economic development and infrastructure projects. The law provides funding for key federal programs that impact people living in the coalfields of Southern and Eastern Kentucky, including $155 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), $301.5 million for the Economic Development Administration (EDA), and another $25 million for the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program, an effort championed by Congressman Rogers to revitalize land for economic development opportunities in coal communities. "The war on coal is over, but we have a lot of work ahead of us to revitalize our communities and create new job opportunities in our region. This funding will go a long way to invest in pro-coal initiatives to help our Appalachian communities rebuild and launch innovative projects," said Congressman Rogers. "This legislation also provides grants to improve water quality and shore up safe drinking water, which could prove to be very beneficial in the wake of aging water system disruptions in Eastern Kentucky." FY18 Omnibus Highlights Pro Coal Provisions Impact on Coal Exports – includes language prohibiting any funds in the bill from being used for to either directly or indirectly prohibit coal-fired power projects around the globe. EPA Funding / Oversight – freezes EPA funding at the FY17 level. Since FY10, EPA funding has been reduced by $2.2 billion. It also reduces funding for EPA regulatory activities by $23.5M from FY17 and holds EPA staffing to the lowest level in 30 years. EPA’ staffing levels have been reduced by 650 positions over the last year, and 3,106 since FY10. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) – the bill provides $10.37 million for state training grants and ensures those funds may be used to help coal operators manage the cost associated with the expensive equipment necessarily for complying with the MSHA Dust Rule. The bill also expresses concern that the level of MSHA inspectors far exceeds that which is required to ensure the safe operation of existing domestic coal mines and directs the agency to take action, including reductions in force if necessary, to ensure sufficient industry oversight that does not exceed statutory and regulatory requirements. Fossil Energy Research – advances an “all of the above” energy strategy by investing in fossil energy research. These investments in cutting edge technologies will ensure coal remains a significant part of our energy portfolio—both here at home and abroad. Department of Energy (DOE) Fossil Energy Research programs are funded at $727 million, which is $59 million above FY17 funding levels. The DOE Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) and Power Systems Program is funded at $481 million, with $53 million set aside for the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) to focus on coal, natural gas and oil technologies. Economic Development Programs Reclamation of Abandoned Mine Lands – in addition to full support for the annual state AML grant program, an additional $115 million is provided for the continuation of a pilot program successfully implemented in Fiscal Year 2016. This program targets opportunities for reclamation and job creation in struggling coal communities in Appalachia. Kentucky will receive an additional $25 million in grants for reclamation and economic development. Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) – provides $155 million for ARC, which supports economic growth in distressed counties in the Appalachian region, including $10 million to continue an existing program which will increase broadband access. This also includes $50 million for the POWER Initiative to support communities, primarily in Central Appalachia, that have been adversely impacted by the declining coal industry, by providing resources for job creation, job training, and other employment services. Economic Development Administration – allocates $301.5 million for the EDA, an increase of $25 million from FY17. $30 million is specifically carved out for EDA’s Assistance to Coal Mining Communities program, which supports locally-driven efforts to generate job creation, capital investment, workforce development and re-employment opportunities in coal country. Additionally, this legislation encourages the EDA to use these funds to support broadband infrastructure projects, which will help communities attract new industries and grow local economies. Federal Prison System – includes $7.1 billion for Federal Prison System Salaries and Expenses, an increase of $105 million from FY17 enacted level, to support federal employees at the four federal prisons in our region. The bill also includes an additional $50 million to construct a new federal prison in Letcher County, Ky., bringing the total reserved for this project to $494 million. National Parks – provides $3.2 billion for the National Park Service, including much-needed funding for park maintenance and $23 million for the celebration of the National Park Centennial. These funds will support projects at Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, Cumberland Gap National Historic Park and Mammoth Cave National Park in Kentucky. Community Service Block Grants, Rural Community Facilities, and Community Economic Development Grants – provides $715 million that will allow Community Action Agencies to continue their efforts to support low-income individuals increase self-sufficiency. Payment in Lieu of Taxes – fully funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program for Fiscal Year 2019 at $530 million. The PILT program compensates local communities for lost tax revenues due to the presence of Federal lands within their boundaries. Funding from this program will benefit almost every county in the 5th Congressional District Community Development Financial Institutions – provides $250 million to promote economic revitalization in low-income communities. Kentucky-based organizations like Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation and Community Ventures use these funds to help individuals buy homes, start and grow small businesses, as well as fund projects that improve our local communities. HubZone – includes $3 million to help small businesses in rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities. Rural Infrastructure U.S. Army Corps of Engineers – provides $6.83 billion, $789 million more than FY17, for the Corps of Engineers to improve and rebuild the nation’s water resources and infrastructure. This includes $5.4 million for the Corps’ non-structural flood control programs, some of which may be used for the Town of Martin Redevelopment Plan. Water Reallocation Study at Lake Cumberland – prohibits the US Army Corps of Engineers from completing a Water Reallocation Study for Lake Cumberland. This study would result in nearby towns and other users paying more for access to water at the lake. USDA Infrastructure Programs – provides an additional $201.5 million for Rural Community Facilities loans and grants, which facilitates construction of healthcare facilities, town halls, child care centers, police offices, libraries, food pantries and other essential communal infrastructure. The bill also provides $5.5 billion in loans to finance power generation, transmission, and distribution systems and $690 million for telecommunications infrastructure in rural areas. Finally, the bill funds a $600 million increase for broadband grants and loans, 90 percent of which must go to rural areas without sufficient service currently. Rural housing programs – $25.1 billion, a $100 million increase, is included for USDA Section 502 Loans. $31.5 million is available for the Housing Repair program. Within HUD, $50 million is provided for the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Program. $1.4 billion is also included for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program to help state and local governments provide affordable housing options to low-income people. Clean Water and Drinking Water – provides $1.69 billion to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund $1.16 billion for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, which support local drinking water and sewer construction projects. The bill also provides a $500 million increase to improve water quality and ensure the safety of drinking water in rural communities through technical assistance grants. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) – includes $3.3 billion for grants that provide critical infrastructure funding to states and local communities to address economic development and housing needs. Programs to Support Rural Educational Achievement and Job Training Head Start – promotes school readiness, an important part of preparing children for a successful future in the region, with $9.8 billion for Head Start programs – an additional $600 million over last year. Career, Technical, and Adult Education – provides $1.8 billion for Career, Technical, and Adult Education, an increase of $110 million from FY17. This program is an essential component of the high school curriculum. This funding will assist Kentucky schools in providing students with skills necessary for a successful transition to the workforce. Job Corps – provides $1.7 billion for FY18, an increase of $14.5 million from the FY17 level. This funding will assist the several Kentucky Job Corps locations to continue providing career technical training to our nation’s youth, while allowing them to work towards a high school diploma or college credits. It also promotes a sense of community and family. To learn more about Kentucky-related highlights in the law, visit halrogers.house.gov.
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- President Donald Trump signed the 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act into law last week, providing $1.3 trillion to fund the federal government for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 (FY18). The legislation provides discretionary funding to modernize our military and support critical programs across the country, including authorization and funding for the STOP School Violence Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Congressman Hal Rogers, to boost school safety and prevent future violence among students. “This bill gives students and school officials the tools they need to help reduce fear in our classrooms and a plan of action when warning signs appear,” said Rogers. “Enhancing early detection, prevention, and coordination with law enforcement will save lives. There may not be one single answer to prevent all future violence in schools, but this funded effort is very much a part of the solution.” The legislation authorizes and provides funding for the Department of Justice to provide grants to states for training and prevention programs for students, school officials and law enforcement, helping coordinate threat assessment teams across the country. It will also launch an anonymous reporting system for students to safely communicate warning signs when threats arise. In February, Congressman Rogers participated in a bipartisan press conference in Washington, DC, as one of the first four cosponsors to support the original bill. Also, in a speech on the House Floor two weeks ago, Rogers urged his colleagues to approve the legislation, taking immediate action to help students and educators feel safer at school. The STOP School Violence Act earned the support of the Sandy Hook Promise and a leading group of survivors and families from the deadly February shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. To learn more about Kentucky-related highlights in the FY18 Consolidated Appropriations Act, visit halrogers.house.gov. VIDEO: Rep. Rogers spoke on the House Floor in support of the STOP School Violence Act two weeks ago PHOTO: Rep. Rogers participated in a bipartisan press conference in DC as one of the original cosponsors of the STOP School Violence Act (Right click to download the photo in high resolution)
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauds House passage of the comprehensive federal Omnibus funding bill for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 (FY18). The $1.3 trillion funding package ensures discretionary funding is available to boost our military and vital programs across the country. It keeps the promise of moderizing our military, heightens border security and national defense, provides the largest pay raise for troops in eight years, enhances school safety, broadens the effort to combat the nation's opioid epidemic, supplies critical funding for economic development and infrastructure measures, among several other programs that are important to Kentucky. Rogers spoke on the House Floor urging his colleagues to approve the FY18 federal funding bill: "Mr. Speaker, despite the Chairman’s laudable efforts to complete all FY18 House bills on time, the perpetual stalemate on unrelated matters left us with the undesirable choice of several continuing resolutions. Piecemeal funding of government is universally harmful, but now we have a chance to get back on track and finalize funding for 2018. "Protecting American interests around the globe through military readiness and diplomacy is not a luxury in this hostile environment – it is a responsibility. This bill provides the necessary resources to fulfill that responsibility. It upholds our commitments to key strategic partners and allies, such as Israel, Jordan, Egypt, and Ukraine. The bill will also assist other partners to fight terrorism, secure borders, resist aggression, and stabilize communities affected by conflict. We also uphold our longstanding commitment as Americans to help those displaced by conflict or natural disaster, or facing famine. "Today’s bill will also fight back against the scourge of opioid abuse and help to reignite the economy of coal country. "Like Operation UNITE in my Kentucky district, the federal government has taken a holistic approach to tackle this complex challenge. The agreement provides historic levels of funding for law enforcement, treatment, prevention, recovery and research. Only when these elements work in concert will we truly be able to turn the tide and save lives. "In addition, after struggling under the War on Coal, it is time to turn a new page in Central Appalachia. This bill will give us more tools to strengthen economic development in the region. First, the agreement invests in cutting edge technologies to ensure coal remains a significant part of our energy portfolio—both here at home and abroad. There is also continued support for the AML pilot program that allows us to clean up abandoned mines and repurpose them to create jobs – and robust funding for critical federal agencies like ARC and EDA. "Finally, I am proud that this agreement includes legislation that I helped introduce, the STOP School Violence Act, which aims to curb the epidemic of violence in our schools. This is a significant step forward in our effort to protect our children from senseless tragedy and I urge a vote 'yes'." The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. To view bill highlights, click here. VIDEO: Congressman Rogers spoke on the House Floor in support of the FY18 Omnibus Bill
03.21.2018	SOMERSET, Ky. -- Congressman Hal Rogers invites all high school students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. One student will be selected to represent southern and eastern Kentucky in Washington, DC. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year and the winning artist will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D.C. for an annual awards ceremony with winning artists from other congressional districts across the country. The winning artist may also be eligible for a college scholarship. "We have incredibly talented young artists right here in southern and eastern Kentucky, and this competition puts their work in the national spotlight," said Congressman Rogers. "I take great pride in seeing the winning artwork from our region on display in the nation's Capitol where more than three million people visit every year." For competition guidelines and to download a student release form, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. The artwork must be two-dimensional. Framed work cannot exceed 26" x 26" x 4" and cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. Unframed artwork will be accepted in the congressional office; however, the winning artwork must be framed by the artist before being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building. Artwork will be accepted in Congressman Rogers' district offices in Hazard, Prestonsburg and Somerset until May 1, 2018. Last year, the winning artist was Yedarm Lee from Somerset Christian School. Yedarm brought a squirrel to life in her pencil drawing entitled, "Squirrel." For more information, contact Danielle Smoot in Congressman Rogers' Somerset district office at 606-679-8346 or danielle.smoot@mail.house.gov. Click here for Competition Guidelines Click here to download a student release form Click here for a student submission checklist The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. For information about the annual competition, visit halrogers.house.gov.
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) demanded answers from U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross regarding his proposal to eliminate the Economic Development Administration (EDA) as a way to save money in the budget for 2019. "Your own evaluations show EDA programs have exceeded performance goals in private sector investment in distressed communities and jobs created as a result of EDA grants, yet for a second year in a row, you propose to eliminate this agency entirely," said Rep. Rogers. "Mr. Secretary, Kentucky's Fifth District is among the poorest, most economically distressed congressional districts in the nation. In more than half of my counties, at least 30 percent of residents live below the poverty level. Even the county with the lowest percentage is still well above the national average. This dire need is exactly why my constituents have received over $20 million in EDA grants since 2011. I am very concerned about how this proposal would affect rural America." "Many difficult decisions were necessary to reach the funding level provided in this budget and unfortunately, the elimination of EDA was one of those," Sec. Ross responded. "Within EDA, I'm particularly troubled by the loss of money that we have historically directed to coal mining communities," continued Rep. Rogers. "I come from the warfield - from the war on coal. I have 12,000 laid off coal miners in my district alone who are able people, mechanically talented people. In the past, EDA has worked to help these types of communities that need assistance and the only place for them to turn to, quite frankly Mr. Secretary, is EDA. I hope that you could reconsider your budgetary recommendation in this regard." Rogers noted the House Appropriations Committee has rejected the Administration's proposal to eliminate the EDA over the last two years, deciding to provide sufficient funding for the agency and its programs. Rogers also asked Sec. Ross about the backlog of trade cases pending before the International Trade Administration (ITA), impacting the domestic steel industry. For example, in December 2015, AK Steel temporarily laid of approximately 700 employees at its Ashland, Kentucky facility, pointing out the "onslaught of unfairly traded imports." "Several of these companies joined together and filed a complaint with the ITA and the International Trade Commission accusing China, and other countries of purposefully undervaluing their corrosion-resistant steel imports in order to increase market share in the US," said Rep. Rogers. "Over the last few years, this Committee has steadily provided funding increases for the ITA's enforcement and compliance division. I am pleased to see that the President's request continues this trend with an additional $3 million above the House-passed bill in FY18." Sec. Ross said the agency is working diligently to reduce the backlog and increase enforcement. VIDEO: Click the photo to view Congressman Rogers' comments during the Commerce Budget Hearing
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C. (March 20, 2018) – Senators Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Angus King, I-Maine, and Congressmen Kevin Yoder, R-Kansas, and Hal Rogers, R-Kentucky, received the Champions for Children award Tuesday during the annual Save the Children and Save the Children Action Network (SCAN) Advocacy Summit, sponsored by Johnson & Johnson. “We are so grateful to these members of Congress for their dedication to mothers and children everywhere,” said Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children. “Without their leadership, fewer children would have access to high-quality early childhood education programs in the United States and life-saving health services around the world.” “It doesn’t matter if you are a Republican or a Democrat, we can all agree that every child deserves a strong start in life, no matter where they were born,” said Kris Perry, President of SCAN. “These champions are making that possible and we look forward to continuing to work with each of them to make even more progress for the world’s most vulnerable citizens – our children.” Advocates from across the country traveled to Washington this week to attend in-depth advocacy trainings and urge lawmakers from both parties to make key investments in early childhood education in the U.S. and maternal, newborn and child survival programs overseas. During the 2018 Advocacy Summit, more than 200 advocates – including 75 high school and college students – from 34 states are expected to meet with more than 150 lawmakers and their staffs on Capitol Hill. ### Save the Children gives children in the United States and around the world a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from harm. We invest in childhood — every day, in times of crisis and for our future. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Save the Children Action Network is the political voice for kids. We believe that every child deserves the best start in life. That’s why we’re building bipartisan will and voter support to make sure every child in the U.S. has access to high-quality early learning and that no mother or child around the globe dies from a preventable disease or illness. By investing in kids and holding leaders accountable, we are helping kids from birth to age five survive and thrive. Media Contact: Allie Wright, alwright@savechildren.org, (202) 794-1823
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after President Trump announced further action on the nation's public health crisis on opioids. "While Eastern Kentucky tragically started out as ground zero for skyrocketing prescription drug abuse overdoses, this crisis has now expanded into a national opioid epidemic - the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 50. We need all hands on deck, including our Commander-in-Chief, to help save lives and beat back the tide of abuse. I am pleased that President Trump is engaged on this issue and look forward to working with him to implement a holistic federal response. "In Eastern Kentucky, with Operation UNITE leading the charge to save lives, we quickly learned that we can't arrest our way out of the problem. In fact, it is UNITE's three-pronged approach, including law enforcement, treatment and education that has developed into a national model for successful federal policy and legislation. This week in Congress, we are working to secure more money to target effective treatment and education measures to prevent abuse and help more people through recovery. "In just a few weeks, Operation UNITE will once again help lead the critical journey for solutions to the opioid abuse epidemic during the annual National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta on April 2-6, 2018. I count it a great honor to stand alongside UNITE to bring together stakeholders from federal, state and local agencies, both private and public sectors, and passionate advocates from across the country. Over the last seven years, the Rx summit has influenced critical drug-related policies and inspired an unmatched movement for action amongst professionals in every related industry. With more lives hanging in the balance each day, we must remain diligent in our fight for hope." For more information about the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, click here.
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, on the one-month anniversary of the school shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the STOP School Violence Act, H.R. 4909, introduced by Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), John Rutherford (R-FL), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Hal Rogers (R-KY). “In the immediate wake of last month’s tragedy in Parkland, more than 15 students were arrested in my home district of Eastern Kentucky. Thankfully our students and local law enforcement acted swiftly to prevent a copycat event in our own schools,” said Rep. Rogers. “As our nation battles this epidemic of school violence, it is imperative we utilize our available resources to stop tragic events before they occur. But, unfortunately, too many students and officials don’t have the tools they need to successfully act upon similar situations. Thanks to this bipartisan bill and the tireless advocacy of Sandy Hook Promise, hopefully we can turn that tide.” “I’m deeply grateful to Sandy Hook Promise for their tireless support for this legislation," said Rep. Deutch. "When we first introduced this bill, I had no idea it would hit so close to home for me and my community. This vote is proof that Congress can take bipartisan action to keep our children safe. However, my colleagues should not be mistaken to think this is enough. We cannot tackle the rampant gun violence in our country without addressing guns themselves. Let’s move with this bipartisan momentum and pass meaningful legislation to make our communities safe.” “Today’s vote in the House marks an important step toward keeping our children and our schools safe," Rep. Rutherford said. "As a career law enforcement officer in Jacksonville, I know that security requires a multi-layered approach. The STOP School Violence Act will give schools and communities the resources they need to identify threats and prevent acts of violence before they occur so we can avoid tragedies like what transpired at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School a month ago today. I commend Rep. Deutch, along with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, for working with us to make schools more secure, and I look forward to seeing the Senate join us in the effort to protect our kids.”"When we drop our kids at school, we want them to be excited about the day ahead — not fearful for their safety. Passing the STOP School Violence Act is the first of what I hope will be many steps towards making schools safer and preventing gun violence. Today’s vote will give teachers, students and law enforcement more support from Congress,” Rep. Kilmer said. “But the problem of gun violence needs to be addressed directly. The leaders of Congress need to listen to the students and teachers who are united today in calling for more action on this issue and better policies that make it harder to use a gun to commit violence.” The STOP School Violence Act would boost school efforts to develop violence prevention programs and coordinate with law enforcement to improve school safety. It would create a grant program to train students, teachers, school officials, and local law enforcement how to identify and intervene early when signs of violence arise and create a coordinated reporting system when threatening signs are noticed.The legislation was introduced on January 30, 2018, two weeks before the tragic mass shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. It passed by a vote of 407-10 and now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. During a speech on the House Floor, Congressman Rogers urged his colleagues to pass the STOP School Violence ActClick the photo to watch the full speech
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) requested tourism assistance for Eastern Kentucky during a fiscal year 2019 budget hearing with leaders from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation, including R.D. James, Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, and Assistant Secretary Dr. Timothy Petty, Assistant Secretary for Water and Science. Rogers specifically highlighted a longstanding request from local residents in Pike County to extend the whitewater rafting season on the Russell Fork River when excess water is discharged from the Flannagan Dam on the Virginia border. "The whitewater rafting season on the Russell Fork River, which is the discharge river, is great for tourism for a very short span of time. They want to see if there is a way to stretch out the discharge so there are several weeks, even months of whitewater rafting on the river," explained Rogers. "Yet, there is no money requested for the study that's required in the budget request. For years, we've mandated that this study take place." The proposed study would cost one million dollars with equal cost sharing between the state government and the Corps. Lt. Gen. Todd Semonite suggested a study may not be required, unless an endangered species or another inhibiting factor is found. "It's a fairly small item in your agenda, but it's big for the people of Pike County who are suffering from the tens of thousands of mine layoffs," said Rogers. "They're looking for a way to make a living and tourism is the best thing we've got going in those mountains and great streams, but we can't get the Corps engaged." Secretary James and Assistant Secretary Dr. Petty agreed to report back to Congressman Rogers after examining the status of the proposed project. Click the photo to watch the entire hearing. Rep. Rogers' questions begin at 1:35:33.
03.12.2018	Requests President Trump’s timely and serious consideration of the Governor’s disaster declaration request, which would aid Kentucky communities and families severely impacted by February flooding WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator Rand Paul, and Representatives Hal Rogers (KY-05), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Brett Guthrie (KY-02), Thomas Massie (KY-04), Andy Barr (KY-06), and James Comer (KY-01) sent a letter to President Donald Trump today expressing their support for Governor Matt Bevin’s request for a federal disaster declaration for Kentucky. They wrote, “From February 9 through February 14, 2018, the Commonwealth of Kentucky experienced a severe weather system that produced strong wind and episodes of torrential rain which caused flooding, flash flooding, landslides, and mudslides. The impact of this weather system has severely affected 22 counties in the Commonwealth, causing extensive damage exceeding the ability of the state government and localities to effectively respond.” A copy of the federal delegation’s letter is HERE.
03.01.2018	Rogers Questions AEP About High Utility Rates WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently sent a letter to the American Electric Power (AEP) company questioning why some customers living in Southern and Eastern Kentucky are paying over 200% more for electric bills since last fall. The letter highlights examples of utility bills that the congressman has received from individuals, small business owners and non-profit organizations in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. "One gentleman in particular said his AEP bill jumped from $189.59 to $486.31, which will take up more than 32% of his fixed income of $1,582," explained Rogers in the letter. "Like so many other folks in my region, as a result of the unexpected 256% jump in utility rates, he is now forced to decide between paying to keep his home warm and his lights on, paying for his medication, or buying groceries this month." "While I clearly understand the fluctuation of rates can be partially attributable to changes in weather patterns and other market conditions, the increased rates and added fees appear quite extreme," writes Rogers. "Roughly 20% of the bills provided to me are attributable to unexplained fees, taxes and adjustments totally unrelated to consumption." Rogers questioned the amount of fees being passed on to customers and asked what could be done to ensure electricity costs remain consistently affordable to people living in the second-poorest congressional district in the country. The letter ends with a request for a response within 30 days. To download a copy of Congressman Rogers' letter to AEP, click here.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY) and Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA) have introduced H.R. 5102 , the bipartisan Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act. The legislation will improve access to desperately needed treatment for the millions of Americans struggling with a substance use disorder. Experts report that only 10 percent of the 22 million Americans with a substance use disorder receive treatment. This treatment gap is largely attributed to the shortage of workers in the substance use disorder field. The Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act offers student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for participants who agree to work as a substance use disorder treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. The program will be available to a wide range of direct care providers, including physicians, registered nurses, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals. “We can’t just stand by while parents bury their children because they were forced to wait weeks or months for lifesaving treatment,” said Clark. “Families in every corner of the country are battling the opioid epidemic, and by encouraging more treatment workers to enter this field, we are giving them a fighting chance. Every new treatment professional we invest in could mean survival for someone’s child, parent, sibling, or friend who may not have had access to treatment otherwise.” “We are working diligently to attack the drug abuse epidemic from every angle, but one glaring gap remains: there simply aren’t enough professionals available to meet the surging need for treatment. Developing this loan repayment program will help bring more medical professionals to the heart of communities most in need,” said Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Drug overdoses are the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 50, so we must expand our reach to treat and save those battling addiction.” To qualify for the program, participants must agree to be employed in a full-time substance use disorder treatment job in a high need area for up to six years. That job must involve serving in a direct patient care role, and can include serving as a physician, registered nurse, social worker, recovery coach, or any other role listed in the bill, as well as any additional titles added by the Department of Health and Human Services. Participants may serve in a wide range of facilities, so long as they are located in an area with a shortage of mental health professionals or a high rate of drug overdose deaths. Full text of 5102 can be found here. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (R-KY), John Rutherford (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) announced the bipartisan Students, Teachers and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Act of 2018, H.R. 4909, during a press conference on Capitol Hill. We know that violence in our schools, including suicide, bullying, and mass shootings, is preventable through proven early intervention programs and training. Following tragedies like Columbine, Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook, the federal government has funded short-term school safety initiatives focused on crisis response, active shooters, and physical infrastructure. While these are important investments, we have not yet seen sustained strategies to curb youth violence or stop suicides and violence in our schools before they happen. Our students, educators, and local law enforcement need the tools and support to take proactive and continuous steps toward improving school safety. Sandy Hook Promise praises U.S. Congressmen Rutherford, Deutch, Rogers, and Kilmer for introducing the STOP School Violence Act. “As a 40-year career law enforcement officer, I know firsthand the importance of identifying signs of trouble and intervening in a situation before it escalates to violence,” stated Congressman Rutherford. “The best way to keep our students and teachers safe is to prevent tragedy before it occurs. Our bill takes important steps to do just that by encouraging local schools to partner with local law enforcement to learn how to identify threats, so that incidents can be stopped before they occur, saving lives and preventing violence. No parent should have to be fearful of sending their child to school, and I thank my colleagues for joining me in the effort to enhance school safety.” “Just since the beginning of the year, we’ve had at least twelve shootings on school property. This shouldn’t be how schools begin a new semester,” said Congressman Deutch. “Children and teachers must feel safe in their classrooms. This bill is a sensible and meaningful approach to gun violence in schools by equipping students, teachers, and administrators with the tools to identify possible signs of violence and respond appropriately.” The legislation invests in early intervention and prevention programs to stop school violence before it happens by authorizing the Department of Justice to make grants to states for the purposes of training students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene to prevent people from hurting themselves or others. The legislation also permits the development and operation of anonymous reporting systems, and formation of school threat assessment and intervention teams to help schools intake and triage threats before tragedy strikes. “In Kentucky, we were gravely reminded in recent weeks of the dire need for more effective prevention efforts in our schools to curb violence and reach our troubled youth before another heartbreaking tragedy occurs,” said Congressman Rogers. “We clearly need to do more to help our students on both sides of the equation: both bullies and their victims need more comprehensive intervention in our schools. It is my hope that Congress will take quick action to pass this worthy life-saving bill, which also gives teachers and staff additional support.” “When our kids go to school, they should be excited about the day ahead — not fearful for their safety,” Congressman Kilmer said. “This legislation will give teachers, students and administrators the tools and resources necessary to stop school violence before it starts. This is a great first step in making our schools safer, and I hope this bipartisan effort leads to future action that directly addresses the specific threat of gun violence in schools.” “No child should fear going to school and no other parents should have to know the pain of losing their child in a school shooting. We can stop violence in our schools by training our students and their educators to know the signs and intervene. We are proud to support this legislation that will ensure that millions more schools will be trained in prevention and lives will be saved,” said Mark Barden, co-founder and managing director of Sandy Hook Promise, and the father of Daniel, who was killed in the Sandy Hook Elementary tragedy. About Sandy Hook Promise: Sandy Hook Promise (SHP) is a national, nonprofit organization based in Newtown, Connecticut. We are led by several family members whose loved ones were killed in the tragic mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, 2012 that claimed the lives of 20 first-graders and 6 educators. SHP is focused on preventing gun violence (and other forms of violence and victimization) before it happens by educating and mobilizing youth and adults on mental health and wellness programs that identify, intervene and help at-risk individuals. SHP is a moderate, above-the-politics organization that supports sensible non-policy and policy solutions that protect children and prevent gun violence. Our intent is to honor all victims of gun violence by turning our tragedy into a moment of transformation. For more information, visit www.sandyhookpromise.org or call 203-304-9780. Congressman Rogers participated in a press conference on Tuesday on Capitol Hill highlighting the STOP School Violence Act
02.24.2018	FRANKFORT, Ky. (Feb. 24, 2018) – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Gov. Matt Bevin today announced a $3.4 million project to alleviate water supply issues within the Martin County Water District. The project will help secure clean water for the people of Martin County and will be administered by the Kentucky Division of Abandoned Mine Lands (KY DAML), which has received preliminary approval from the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE). The water intake modifications will utilize collective funding from a 2018 AML grant and a 2017 AML Pilot grant. Kentucky’s Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has also invested an additional $1.2 million to assist with repairs. The work will include installing a secondary water intake in the Tug Fork River, upgrading the Crum Reservoir dam, installing a new water line from intake to the dam, and making improvements to the district’s water treatment plant. A monitoring system will be installed to allow water plant operators to check on water tanks, pump stations, and control valves within the system, as part of the project. The Martin County Water District has a history of water system concerns, including low pressure, leaking water lines and meters, and financial deficits. The project also will help address issues raised by the Kentucky Public Service Commission. “Our team, including the Energy and Environment Cabinet and the Department of Local Government, worked closely with Congressman Rogers to craft a solution that addresses the water supply issues in Martin County,” said Gov. Bevin. “We have listened to the concerns of the local community, and the grant and corresponding project plan will provide assistance and address needed repairs and improvements within the local water district.” These improvements also will address the emergency water outages in Martin County that many residents experienced last December and January by providing a more reliable source water supply to the treatment plant. “While Martin County’s aging water system is in dire need of a gamut of repairs, this funding is a big step in the right direction and helps ensure the people of Martin County will soon have a more reliable, sustainable source of clean drinking water that will include a modernized monitoring system to help prevent future emergencies,” said Congressman Rogers. “Everyone across the country should have access to clean drinking water. Over the last 30 years, we’ve expanded water systems in every county to make sure every day needs are met in Eastern Kentucky. As systems age and deteriorate, like the one in Martin County, we must remain vigilant to prevent prolonged water outages.” Congressman Rogers and Governor Bevin have worked tirelessly on this solution for several months along with Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely and Department of Local Government Commissioner Sandra Dunahoo. Dunahoo and Snavely applauded the multifaceted efforts to secure funding for the needed water district improvements. “The Department of Local Government is committed to working across agency boundaries to find solutions for local communities,” said Dunahoo. “We are pleased that we were able to help in expediting $1.2 million in federal funding, through the ARC, for Martin County.” “This is government at its best,” Snavely said. “While the Cabinet has already been working with the Martin County Water District to find solutions to its water issues, we are confident that this will speed up the process and bring relief to residents.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
02.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the winning team for the Congressional App Challenge. Four students from the Floyd County Area Techonology Center in Prestonsburg: Jacob Pitts, Jonathan Dotson, Tanner Gibson and Michael Shepherd, developed the Ky Fishing Buddy mobile app. Their winning app will be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building this year, representing Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. During the fall school semester, thousands of high school students coded original apps as part of district-wide competitions hosted by Members of the House for the nation-wide Congressional App Challenge. "The Ky Fishing Buddy app is a great way to highlight our recreational hotspots for fishing in Eastern Kentucky, providing important information about laws and regulations you need to know when fishing in our region," said Congressman Rogers. "This team has submitted a winning app three years in a row! I applaud their ingenuity and ability to develop an app that could be very useful to local families and visitors. We have incredibly talented students in Eastern Kentucky!" "Many people in our community love to fish! There just wasn’t any apps out there with local information about our lakes and awesome fishing opportunities we have here in Eastern Kentucky," said Michael Shepherd, a CTE student. The Congressional App Challenge invites winners from across the country to showcase their apps to Members of Congress and members of the tech community at #HouseOfCode, a reception on Capitol Hill to be held in April 2018. Their work will be featured for one year on the permanent display in the U.S. Capitol Building and on the House.gov website. The winning students will also receive $250 in Amazon Web Service Credits and $100 Southwest Airline Gift Cards to attend #HouseOfCode in Washington, DC. "I am so pleased with our app team here at Prestonsburg," said Dr. Jeff M. Shannon, IT Teacher for Floyd County Area Technology Center. "They continue to build apps that fulfill the needs of our great community here in Eastern Kentucky. It has been wonderful, as a teacher, to go and see my student’s work featured at the U.S. Capitol over the past couple of years!" The Congressional App Challenge aims to engage students in coding and computer science. In all, 190 Congressional districts across 42 states hosted app challenges for their student constituents. "This year the Congressional App Challenge has expanded its reach, with notable inroads in rural America and with underrepresented minorities and young women" said Rachel Decoste, Director of the Challenge. "This has been a banner year thanks to our sponsors, partners and the dedicated educators who are at the heart of this initiative’s success." Over 4,100 students participated in the 14-week regional competitions. They submitted over 1,270 original student-created apps, a 96% growth in number of apps from last year’s Challenge. All of the winners are listed online at CongressionalAppChallenge.us. About the Congressional App Challenge The CAC is an official initiative of the U.S. House of Representatives, managed by the Internet Education Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. The first three years of the program yielded 426 challenges across 42 states. PHOTO: (Left to right) Lenville Martin - Floyd County Area Technology Center Principal, Lori Bricken - Prestonsburg High Principal, Ricky Thacker - Prestonsburg High Assistant Principal, Tanner Gibson - Student, Michael Shepherd - Student, Jacob Pitts - Student, Jon Dotson - Student, Dr. Jeff M. Shannon (IT Instructor)
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2019. "President Trump’s proposed budget compliments the diligent work of the Bipartisan Budget Act, calling for much-needed boosts to funding for our nation’s military, border security, infrastructure, rural broadband expansion and efforts to combat the nation’s deadly opioid epidemic. "While his plan does support important programs administered by agencies, like the Appalachian Regional Commission, I’m concerned by proposed reductions to resources that provide for economic development in rural areas, such as Eastern Kentucky, where families and small communities are still struggling to rebound from the recession. “As Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to complete responsible federal funding legislation for fiscal years 2018 and 2019." State and Foreign Operations Proposed Budget “I firmly believe that strong investments in diplomatic and development programs are an irreplaceable component of our national security. In fact, our most senior military commanders have told us this “soft power” helps prevent the need for military intervention and facilitates operational success when military action is necessary. That is why I am once again disappointed by the severe cuts proposed in the President’s fiscal year 2019 budget for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. "I applaud the inclusion of $3.3 billion for Israel and am pleased to see an increase from last year’s request for Jordan and Tunisia. However, the President’s 2019 budget falls short on other important priorities like humanitarian assistance, global health programs, and programs to counter-Russian aggression, to name just a few. During a time of record displacement of individuals and families, a growing number of countries facing instability, and rising global tensions, U.S. leadership abroad is critical. "We will certainly review this budget proposal, but ultimately Congress has the responsibility to equip our leaders with both the authority and resources needed to advance our national security interests.” --U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers released the following statement after both the U.S. House and Senate approved the Bipartisan Budget Act for fiscal years 2018 and 2019. The two-year budget agreement extends government operations through March 23, 2018 and paves the way for comprehensive, long-term federal funding. The legislation provides critical investments in national defense, veterans benefits, failing infrastructure, emergency disaster aid, extensions for Medicare and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and combatting the nation's public health crisis resulting from opioid abuse and misuse. "The Bipartisan Budget Agreement is the greatest compromise of the 115th Congress to date, putting Americans and our military first. "This legislation honors our U.S. Armed Forces by removing restrictive spending caps so we can modernize our military fleet, enhance equipment, improve training and add strength through recruitment. Defense Secretary James Mattis pleaded with Congress to remain faithful to the men and women who bravely serve this nation - and this long-term budget deal accomplishes that goal. It also provides for our veterans by helping reduce the shameful maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration. "I applaud the investment of $20 billion in our infrastructure to repair failing rural water and wastewater systems, expand rural broadband, enhance transportation and other innovative programs. This legislation also builds on congressional efforts to combat the nation's opioid epidemic, committing another $6 billion to help turn back the tide of addiction through holistic, life-saving measures. I am also particularly pleased to see renewed funding for Community Health Centers, which are so vital for the wellness of many in our rural region. "While I may not agree with everything in the Bipartisan Budget Agreement, it is refreshing to see this Congress reach across the aisle for the greater good and provide certainty and sustainability for programs that are important to the American people, from children's health insurance, to Medicare, to education, to national security. Together, we are building a stronger, more secure America."
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump's State of the Union Address: "President Trump rightfully highlighted the successful transition that he has led from a stagnant economy to a thriving American recovery boasting 2.4 million new jobs, ending the war on coal and passing historic tax reform that is already increasing paychecks and benefits for hard-working Americans. I was pleased to hear the President’s commitment to make critical infrastructure improvements, boosting national security and our military strength, and paving the way for immigration reform. I applaud the President for honoring American heroes and inspiring our nation with a message of hope." Rogers' guest for the SOTU was JC Egnew, a long-time business leader and job creator in McCreary Co. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook .
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds passage of the fiscal year 2018 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which has now passed three times in the U.S. House of Representatives since July 2017. The legislation provides $659.2 billion for Defense, including a 2.4% pay raise for U.S. troops. Rogers spoke on the House Floor today urging the Senate to approve this critical funding for our military. "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the fiscal year 2018 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. Although I am proud to support this critical legislation, I will say that I am disappointed to be here yet again, speaking in support of the Defense Appropriations bill as we again seek its passage in the House. "Despite Chairman Frelinghuysen’s herculean efforts to complete all 12 bills on time, and passing several packages that included the defense bill, the Senate has failed to act. We recently saw the effects of this, when the government shutdown and put great stress on the backs of our service members and their families. "Mr. Speaker, it is time that we push aside the partisanship, and do what is right for our country’s national security by passing this bill. While it certainly represents the outcome of many hard choices, it prioritizes funding where our troops need it most. It wisely invests in readiness, training, maintenance and the procurement of new equipment and technology to ensure that our troops are prepared for the tasks before them. "I am pleased that this bill takes care of our troops and their families at home, by granting them a long awaited 2.4% pay raise. Our nation has been at war for nearly two decades, and our service members have put their lives on the line to ensure we can live our way of life. This raise represents just one small way for us to honor their service. "Mr. Speaker, they say that the third time is the charm, and I hope that this holds true. After the House passes this bill, I urge the Senate to do so as well so that the President can sign this bill into law. According to the Constitution, it is the Congress’ responsibility to provide for our common defense. This bill does just that. I urge my colleagues to vote “yes,” and I yield back the balance of my time." The legislation heads to the U.S. Senate again for consideration. VIDEO: Rogers urges Senate to pass Defense funding bill during House Floor speech
01.25.2018	By, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers Chances are, you are enjoying some extra cushion in your wallet this year, or you will very soon. It’s a direct result of President Trump’s hard-fought tax reform law, the Federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that Congress passed in the final weeks of 2017. As a result of this historic legislation, more than two million Americans (and counting) will receive a bonus, while the Treasury estimates 9 in 10 Americans will see more money in their paychecks this year. In fact, starting in February, a family of four in Kentucky will see an increase in their hard-earned paychecks, totaling an average of nearly $2,000 more in 2018. And that’s the good news…in even better news, this is only the beginning. Since tax reform went into effect, Americans for Tax Reform has compiled a growing list of more than 250 companies from across the country that have announced pay raises, bonuses or improvements in benefits. For example, Community Trust Bancorp, Inc., headquartered in Pikeville, Kentucky, announced a bonus of $1,000 for full-time employees and $500 for part-time staff this year, noting “changes in the tax law facilitate” the institution’s ability to “recognize hard work and dedication.” Those bonuses alone will impact employees at 70 different banking locations in Kentucky. In addition to the one-time bonuses we’re hearing about right off the cuff, large nationwide companies have also announced wage hikes for their employees. For example, in February, Walmart, which employs thousands of people across Southern and Eastern Kentucky, will boost minimum wage to $11. This will be a well-deserved shot in the arm for working families all across our region. A pay increase from the nation’s largest private employer certainly signals the type of sustainable, long-term benefits we could reap from tax reform. In addition to a boost in pay, Kentuckians will also soon see a reduction in utility rates. Just last week, the Kentucky Public Service Commission (PSC) announced that electric, gas and water customers will pay about 4 percent less this year. The PSC gave direct credit to the federal corporate income tax rate cuts that dropped from 35 to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. It’s refreshing to see lower utility rates and to hear stories from employers who are thrilled to give their loyal employees more pay and better benefits. Those reports are a welcome change from the job-killing mandates created by Obamacare and the skyrocketing utility rates that escalated during the Obama Administration’s War on Coal. Regardless of your political leanings, no one can deny the direct benefits of the Federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for families, individuals and businesses nation-wide. When Kentuckians take home more of their hard-earned money and spend less to keep the lights on, they have more money to invest in their own families, futures and dreams. Similarly, when companies are rewarded for doing business in America, we keep more jobs from being shipped overseas. Already, $1.6 billion in new company investments have been planned in the United States. Tax reform was long overdue, and I applaud our President and this Congress for working together to make meaningful change for a better America and a better Kentucky. #####
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement applauding passage of a three-week continuing resolution to reopen federal government operations through February 8. Senate Democrats stalled passage of a four-week stopgap funding bill, shutting down the government at midnight on January 19. The funding legislation also provides critical funding for military operations and a six-year extension for the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). In Kentucky, 92,727 children receive CHIP benefits. “I’m pleased to see the Senate put an end to this unnecessary shutdown. While funding the government in piecemeal fashion is never ideal, it is especially reckless to hold hostage critical funding, like health insurance for nearly 20,000 children in my congressional district, to advance partisan political goals. The American people deserve better, along with our brave troops at home and overseas. Now, let’s get back to work on a long-term budget deal.” The Senate approved the bill 81-18 and it received a vote of 266-150 in the House.
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Members of the U.S. House of Representatives from Kentucky,Congressman Andy Barr (KY-06), Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05), Congressman Brett Guthrie (KY-02), and Congressman James Comer (KY-01) issued the following joint statement: “Last night, the House of Representatives voted to keep the government open and to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years. While there is nothing in this legislation that Senate Democrats oppose, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is nonetheless working to defeat the bill because it does not include a reauthorization of an unrelated program that does not expire until March. On behalf of our American troops and the more than 90,000 Kentucky children that depend on the Children’s Health Insurance Program, we urge the Senate to pass the House-approved funding bill to keep the government open, to strengthen national defense and to support children and families in need while we continue to negotiate immigration reforms and border security.” ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, as thousands of Americans filled the National Mall in support of the annual March for Life in Washington, DC, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, H.R. 4712. The pro-life legislation mandates medical care and legal protection for any child born alive during an attempted abortion procedure, while protecting mothers from prosecution and holding abortionists accountable who do not utilize life-saving measures for infants that survive. "While the March for Life took place on Capitol grounds today, my colleagues and I stood with them on the House floor, voting to protect the sanctity of life," said Congressman Rogers. "This legislation takes another step to protect these innocent babies, by charging practitioners who fail to report or provide life-saving measures for the rare abortion survivors. Every life deserves a voice and a fighting chance of survival." Last year, the House Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives reported abortions and abortion facilities are being incentivized by illicit fetal-tissue traffickers to harvest infant organs. H.R. 4712 will hold those practicitioners accountable. Last year, Rogers also voted for the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, restricting abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Both bills now await consideration by the U.S. Senate.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the House urging members of Congress to vote for a four-week extension of the current Continuing Resolution to keep the government open, providing critical funding for the military and a six-year extension for the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The current stop-gap funding bill is set to expire at midnight on Friday, January 19, 2018. "Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. "Here it is in a nutshell: Chairman Frelinghuysen saw to it we passed all 12 of the appropriations bills and sent them to the Senate where not a single one has been allowed to come to the floor because of democrat senators who profess they want to keep the government going, but vote no. And because the democrats in the Senate have barred the consideration of any of these bills, here we are. "We have no choice, if we want to keep the government open, but to vote for this bill. It's the only game in town, and those on the other side who profess they want to keep the government going today will vote no. I don't understand that logic. "This is the only chance we have to keep the government operating, to be sure that the American taxpayers' money is being spent properly and adequately, but for the purpose of keeping our government open. So, Mr. Speaker, I urge a yes vote on this bill, and let's move on. I yield back." The funding bill passed the House and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click the photo to watch Rogers' House Floor speech
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Jorden Jones, a 2016 graduate of South Laurel High School, to Washington, DC as part of the University of Kentucky's "WilDCats at the Capitol" Internship Program. "It is always a pleasure to support our brightest students, like Jorden, as they explore public service and government operations in our nation's historic halls of Congress," said Congressman Rogers. "Jorden has jumped right in, assisting people from across Southern and Eastern Kentucky, while learning the ropes on Capitol Hill. She is a delightful addition to our DC office and displays a great deal of leadership potential." Jones is a sophomore at the University of Kentucky, where she is majoring in Political Science and Sociology. She is currently studying Arabic and aspires to have a career in diplomacy. "I would like to thank Congressman Rogers, his wonderful staff, and the University of Kentucky for this amazing opportunity," said Jones. "I am deeply grateful to experience the elaborate shaping of our nation at such an incredible perspective, and to be immersed in a community of significant history and leaders." Jones was also a 2012 Rogers Explorer. Jorden Jones and Congressman Rogers
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- This week, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of 15 bills to strengthen national security and enhance foreign intelligence surveillance. The U.S. House of Representatives also approved reauthorization of Title 7 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to provide critical intelligence about foreign terrorists and keep Americans safe. "We can all sleep better knowing that our homeland is secure and the appropriate authorities have access to the information necessary to protect and defend Americans from the global threat of terrorism," said Congressman Rogers. "I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing bipartisan measures to improve counter terrorism activities, enhance cyber security and promote border security." The legislation now heads to the Senate for consideration, including the following: H.R. 4561 SAFE TECH Act, directing the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to establish a program and framework for enabling third party testing for advanced security screening technologies in order to alleviate existing bureaucratic hurdles in TSA’s testing and evaluation process; H.R. 1486 Securing American Non-Profit Organizations Against Terrorism Act of 2017 , establishing a Non-Profit Security Grant Program under which the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall make grants to tax-exempt, nonprofit organizations determined to be at risk of a terrorist attack; H.R. 4578 Counter Terrorist Network Act, requiring the National Targeting Center to collaborate with appropriate agencies—including Federal, State, local, tribal, and international entities—to enhance border security through operations that seek to disrupt and dismantle networks, including foreign terrorist networks that pose terrorist or other threats; H.R. 4555 DHS Interagency Counterterrorism Task Force Act of 2017 , authorizing DHS to assign personnel in overseas interagency counterterrorism task forces to combat the threat of terrorism; H.R. 4564 Post-Caliphate Threat Assessment Act of 2017, directing the DHS Secretary, Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence to conduct a threat assessment of currect foreign terrorist fighter activity, including new travel and trends, as well as activity in Iraq and Syria; H.R. 4569 Counterterrorism Information Sharing Improvement Act of 2017 , ensuring relevant data regarding terrorist organizations is provided to DHS for counterterrorism purposes; H.R. 4581 Screening and Vetting Passenger Exchange Act of 2017 , directing the DHS Secretary to develop best practices for utilizing Advance Passenger Information and Passenger Name Record data for counterterrorism screening and vetting operations; H.Res. 676, supporting the rights of the people of Iran to free expression and condemning the Iranian regime for its crackdown on legitimate protests.
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump's executive order, Supporting Our Veterans During Their Transition from Uniformed Service to Civilian Life. The action mandates mental health care resources for 100% of all military troops transitioning back into civilian life for 12 months. "Approximately 20 veterans commit suicide each day in America - the loss is overwhelming and heartbreaking. President Trump’s executive order will undoubtedly save lives and help reduce the tragedy of suicide among our veterans. The first year back home can be the most daunting and most critical time for intervention, and this action will ensure 100% of our first year veterans have the mental health care resources they need during that time. Those who sacrified so much to defend our freedom deserve the very best care as they return home to the country they love." The Executive Order directs the Secretaries of Defense, Homeland Security, and Veterans Affairs to: Within 60 days, develop and submit a Joint Action Plan to provide “seamless access to mental health treatment and suicide prevention resources for transitioning uniformed service members in the year” following military service; and Within 180 days, update the President on the implementation of the Joint Action Plan and outline further reforms to increase veterans’ access to mental health services. For more information, visit whitehouse.gov.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House approval of the fiscal year 2018 (FY18) Continuing Resolution (CR), to give Congress ample time to finalize the FY18 federal appropriations bills and ensure government operations continue through January 19, 2018. The temporary funding legislation includes important provisions for critical national defense programs and extends vital funding for programs like the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Community Health Centers and the Veterans Choice Program. The House also passed a separate measure to provide emergency disaster aid for hurricane and wildfire relief efforts. "While CRs are never our preferred course of action, this bill is a necessary measure to continue vital government programs and services – preventing uncertainty and harm from a shutdown," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. "I am also pleased that this CR extends $550 million to fund Community Health Centers through March, which will ensure these essential facilities can continue providing care to underserved, rural communities while we finalize full-year appropriations and work to fully reauthorize these important programs." Both bills now head to the U.S. Senate for consideration. The current CR expires on December 22, 2017.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a historic tax reform bill for the first time in more than three decades. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R. 1, which simplifies the tax code and provides tax cuts across the board. "As a result of this bill, Kentucky families will begin taking home an average of nearly $2,000 more in their paychecks and small business owners will have more resources than ever before to help them expand and create more jobs here at home," said Rogers, who voted for the legislation. "The House and Senate have worked closely together on this reform bill to ensure the plan eliminates costly loopholes and focuses on helping our middle class and low-income families. I'm proud to help advance sweeping tax reform and join President Trump in keeping this important promise to the people of southern and eastern Kentucky." To learn more about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- On Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Nancy Hale, President and CEO of Operation UNITE, stood together on Capitol Hill to advocate for stronger federal policies and funding to combat the drug abuse epidemic in the Appalachian region. Rogers introduced Hale to testify before the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management during a hearing entitled, The Opioid Epidemic in Appalachia: Addressing Hurdles to Economic Development in the Region. Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), also served as a witness during the hearing. "I believe that the opioid epidemic is indelibly tied to the future economic development of Appalachia, and that ARC could be doing more to help organizations like UNITE tackle the challenges associated with substance abuse," said Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "One thing is painfully clear: the continuation of our addiction crisis and a vibrant Appalachian economy cannot coexist. The need for more targeted action is urgent, as innocent children are left behind in the wake of deadly overdoses, and as more employers search for a drug-free workforce, both in Appalachia and across the country. I think this hearing is an important first step and I am grateful that you have made it a priority." Hale testified about Operation UNITE's success utilizing a holistic approach, including investigations, treatment and education. The comprehensive organization is now a national model. UNITE has provided Drug-Free Workplace training to more than two dozen companies to educate both employees and supervisors about addiction, the signs and symptoms of drug use, the effects and costs of substance abuse in the workplace, and how to identify available support services in the area. "According to information released in August from the Appalachian Regional Commission, overdose and opioid-related overdose mortality rates for ages 15 to 64 are 52.1 per 100,000 people in Appalachian Kentucky. That is the second highest in Appalachia and more than DOUBLE the amount for the non-Appalachian areas of the United States," said Hale. "Unfortunately, our problem is not unique. Many communities are facing the same consequences from this epidemic. That is why UNITE’s efforts must continue: the enemy is evasive and persistent." "Support from the Appalachian Regional Commission – both financially and through collaborative partnerships – has enabled UNITE to create hope and change the culture, not only in our corner of southeastern Kentucky, not only across Appalachia, but on a national stage," Hale said in conclusion. To watch the hearing, visit halrogers.house.gov. Hale testifies during a Congressional hearing Nancy Hale and Congressman Rogers in his DC office
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House today for passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R.1. The historic legislation brings comprehensive reform to the American tax code for the first time in more than 30 years, creating a simpler, fairer system for everyone. "We are delivering on the President's promise to make meaningful tax reform that will simplify the tax code, allow you to keep more of your hard-earned paycheck and help our job creators put more people back to work," said Rogers, who voted for H.R.1. "It lowers tax rates across the board. In Kentucky, the average family will get to keep nearly $2,000 more of their paychecks each year. In Eastern Kentucky, more than 43,000 taxpayers claim the child tax credit, which will increase from $1,000 per child to $1,600 per child under our plan." The legislation roughly doubles the standard deduction, meaning the first $12,000 of income for a single person will be tax-free and it increases to $24,000 for married couples. For those who prefer to itemize their tax returns, the legislation preserves important deductions, like mortgage interest, that make the dream of home ownership a reality. In Kentucky, the bill is expected to create nearly 13,000 new jobs. The 38,000 small business owners in Eastern Kentcky will experience a tax deduction and the job-killing corporate tax rate will be cut from 35% to 20% to spur job creation. "Finally, the days of complicated itemized tax returns will be a thing of the past. Ninety percent of Americans will be able to file their taxes on a simple postcard," said Rogers. The bill now moves on to the U.S. Senate for consideration. President Trump and Congressman Rogers celebrate tax reform
11.15.2017	By Rep. Hal Rogers and Mark Shriver Children represent the poorest age group in America. According to data released in September by the U.S. Census Bureau, more than 13.2 million children were living in poverty in 2016. That means, in the world’s most developed nation, one out of every three people living in poverty is a child. These kids are put at an unfair disadvantage compared to their more well off peers when it comes to education. For example, by age 4, children in poverty are as much as 18 months behind in development as other children. That’s why we’re grateful for programs working in Kentucky to help give all kids, especially those from low-income families, a strong start in life. Save the Children began its work in the United States in Kentucky communities in 1932, providing support to schoolchildren during the Great Depression. Today, the organization has a presence in 41 Kentucky communities, serving nearly 18,000 children every year. In October, we joined actress and Save the Children Trustee Jennifer Garner and Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers in Clay County to visit successful early learning programs in rural Eastern Kentucky and discuss local children’s challenges at a community meeting. During our visit, we met with Kelsey and Austin, the parents of 16-month-old Ryker, a participant in Save the Children’s Early Steps to School Success Program. This critical program assists babies and young children with language, equips parents with the skills and knowledge needed to be the first and best teacher for their child, and develops strong connections between home and school. Kelsey and Austin described their excitement for Ryker’s future and spoke of their desire to give him the best start in life – and feel like they can with the help of Early Steps. They are eager to learn more about how they can help prepare Ryker for a successful start to kindergarten. We were encouraged by these parents’ willingness to help their child succeed, and are working to make sure all children have the support they need to be successful. Most of a child’s brain is developed by the time they are 5 years old, so it’s critical that all kids in the U.S. have access to high-quality early learning programs and childcare, which are key tools in breaking the cycle of poverty. Our group also visited Manchester Elementary School, where many students receive free tutoring through 21st Century Community Learning Centers-funded after-school literacy programs. As a result, a growing number of students are achieving distinguished or proficient ratings for literacy, like the little girl who proudly spoke with us about how she earned 100 percent on nearly all of her quizzes this year, and plans to continue that streak during the rest of the school year. Save the Children works in eight counties across Kentucky, and serves nearly 2,200 children in Clay County alone. Visiting the organization’s critical programs was an incredible opportunity to remind ourselves of what we know to be true – early childhood education transforms lives, especially for children living in poverty. And while that is enough reason to provide further support, our economy also benefits from early childhood programs. In fact, Nobel Prize-winning economist and University of Chicago professor James Heckman’s most recent research shows that high-quality early-childhood programs for disadvantaged children more than pay for themselves, and can provide a 13 percent return on investment per year, per child. All kids deserve an equal chance to succeed. That’s why there is tremendous value in both federal and state investments in early learning and care programs. Rep. Hal Rogers represents the Fifth District of Kentucky. Mark Shriver is Save the Children’s Senior Vice President of U.S. Programs and Advocacy. Congressman Rogers, Mark Shriver & Manchester Elementary Student Jennifer Garner and Congressman Rogers join Save the Children staff for a home visit in Clay County to see how the Early Steps program works
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the 21st Century Flood Reform Act (H.R. 2874), to improve the taxpayer-backed National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), created in 1986. The legislation is a collection of seven bills approved by the Financial Services Committee to reauthorize the NFIP for five years, introduce private market competition and provide affordable coverage for policyholders. "In Eastern Kentucky, our communities along the Cumberland River suffered deadly and devastating flash flooding for decades before flood walls and levies were built to mitigate future damage. Still today, some of our local families and communities struggle with flood insurance costs and coverage, proving the need for insurance reform," said Congressman Rogers, who voted for the legislation. "This legislation breaks up the monopoly of government flood insurance, which has operated on the backs of taxpayers to the tune of over $30 billion, yet still maintains a $1.4 billion annual deficit. Reform is necessary to cover recovery costs for flooding disasters in the future." The legislation will develop a Flood Damage Savings Account for individual policyholders to reduce or eliminate NFIP premiums. It also decreases the cap on annual rate increases and surcharges on low-risk properties. It simplifies the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) process of identifying and addressing at-risk properties, while prioritizing mitigation assistance for multiple-loss properties. The legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds bipartisan House passage of the conference report for the 2018 National Defense Appropriations Act (NDAA), which provides nearly $700 billion to strengthen our U.S. Armed Forces, confront aggression around the world and secure the largest pay raise for military troops in eight years. "As we face the threat of terrorism and brutal extremists, both at home and overseas, we must rebuild and modernize our military equipment and naval fleet to shore up our national defense," said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "This bill also provides an overdue 2.4% raise for our troops and preserves benefits for their families." The legislation increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as the Air Guard. It also implements new oversight and transparency of Pentagon purchases. The legislation has passed through both chambers of Congress and will soon head to the President's desk for his signature into law.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, H.R. 3922. The legislation extends the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for five years and extends Federally Qualified Health Centers for two years, in addition to other critical public health programs. "The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act not only protects vital health care for our children, but also ensures access to medical care will continue to be available in underserved areas, like rural southern and eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Rogers, who voted for the bill. "It also continues important programs, such as Teaching Health Centers (THC) that train primary care physicians at our local colleges and institutions, like the University of Pikeville." The bill provides a two-year extension for National Health Service Corps, THC Graduate Medical Education, Family-to-Family Health Information Centers, the Youth Empowerment Program and the Personal Responsibility Education Program. The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act avoids a scheduled $5 billion reduction to the Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital program, which helps account for higher costs at hospitals with a higher proportion of Medicaid patients. Additionally, it includes over $1 billion for the Medicaid programs in Puero Rico and the Virgin Islands to help shore up those programs so patients can receive access to care. The legislation now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2017 (H.R. 849), eliminating an unelected advisory board that could make drastic cuts to benefits with little to no Congressional oversight. The bill would specifically terminate the unconstituted Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a 15-member board charged with developing proposals to reduce Medicare spending. The IPAB's proposals are considered under fast-track procedures that limit Congress' ability to modify the amount of cuts to Medicare and automatically put the proposal into effect. "This unelected board has complete, unchecked authority to decide which treatments and services should be cut, with the lives of dependent Americans totally in their hands – instead of in their doctors’ hands," said Congressman Rogers. "If constituted, the IPAB would have the authority to move swiftly and potentially make devastating cuts to Medicare. It is yet another reason why we need to repeal and replace Obamacare." The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined several of his colleagues to reintroduce the Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program (B-CROP) Act. The bipartisan bill would award grant funding to vital rural broadband projects in combination with the current loan funding available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Utilities Service. U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate earlier this year. “Broadband is America’s modern day interstate highway for business, communications and emergency response. Without it, rural parts of the country are missing out on economic diversity, educational advancements, telemedicine and much more,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “B-CROP will complement the KentuckyWired project, by making grant funding available to local governments and other eligible entities to extend the 'last mile' of fiber optic cable into each community." KentuckyWired is a statewide, open-access fiber optic network which will deliver robust, reliable and affordable broadband to every county in the Commonwealth upon completion. “We believe the B-CROP Act can help promote the deployment of robust broadband networks in rural areas that are the most challenging to serve," said Shirley Bloomfield, CEO of NTCA-The Rural Broadband Association. "NTCA looks forward to working with members of Congress to tackle the important issues addressed by this legislation.” The B-CROP Act proposes policies to target federal funds for rural and tribal areas with the least connectivity. All Americans, regardless of where they live, work or retire, need access to broadband to succeed in the 21st century. Without access to high-quality, affordable broadband service, workers have fewer opportunities for good-paying jobs, farmers and business owners are isolated from new markets, children are limited in their educational opportunities and health care providers do not have reliable access to the most advanced technology available to help patients. Specifically, the B-CROP Act does the following: Allows for grants of up to 50 percent of a project’s cost, and up to 75 percent for remote, high-need areas, to be awarded in combination with the current loan funding available through USDA’s Rural Utilities Service. Helps enhance the economic feasibility of projects serving rural and tribal areas. Gives highest priority to projects in areas that are currently unserved by high-speed broadband. Coordinates with the FCC’s Universal Service High-Cost Support programs to complement those federal investments, responsibly spending taxpayer money. Increases the authorized funding for RUS’s Broadband programs to $50 million per fiscal year. Provides adequate resources to private-sector providers — including corporations, LLCs, cooperatives or mutual organizations, state or local governments and Indian tribes or tribal organizations — to expand broadband access to unserved rural areas. Gives partnership projects special attention, including initiatives that leverage matching funds and that work with anchor institutions like health centers, libraries, colleges, universities and other educational entities. Click here for more information about the B-CROP Act.
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) attended President Trump’s announcement today at the White House and released the following statement in response to the president’s declaration of the opioid epidemic as a public health emergency: “Eastern Kentucky was one of the original epicenters of the opioid epidemic, with powerful prescription painkillers taking hundreds of lives and wrecking countless families through the pain of addiction. Rapidly, the overdose rates have skyrocketed nationwide becoming the leading cause of injury death in America, killing 175 people every day. I applaud President Trump for raising the stakes and declaring the epidemic a public health emergency. It builds upon the momentum of Operation UNITE in Eastern Kentucky, the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and our congressional efforts to save lives, treat addiction, expand recovery efforts, enhance education and prevention in our communities, and tackle the illicit drug trade.” In recent years, Congress has appropriated more than $8 billion annually across the federal government toward anti-drug enforcement, treatment, education and research efforts. Earlier today, Congressman Rogers discussed the opioid epidemic with CSPAN’s Washington Journal Host John McArdle. Click the photo below to watch the video. VIDEO: C-SPAN's Washington Journal Interview President Trump declares national opioid epidemic a public health emergency
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution, paving the way for tax reform. "This budget paves the way to a more prosperous future for our families and a simpler tax code. It has been more than 30 years since we last overhauled our tax code, which has grown to seven tax brackets and more than 70,000 pages. It's time to implement a plan that supports business growth, higher-paying jobs and less cuts to hard-earned paychecks. This is what we need to get our economy going and today, we're one step closer to that goal." For more information about H.Con.Res. 71, click here.
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that he has cosponsored H.R. 4079, the bipartisan Restoring Enforcement Standards to Track Opioids Responsively and Effectively (RESTORE) Act. This legislation will restore the Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA) power to hold distributors, wholesalers and pharmacies responsible for their roles in the nation's deadly opioid epidemic. This authority was restricted last year with the passage of S. 483, which H.R. 4079 fully repeals. A recent joint investigative report by the Washington Post and 60 Minutes shed light on efforts by companies in the pharmaceutical industry to remove some of DEA’s statutory and regulatory authority to crack down on distributors and pharmacies that had not been diligent or vigilant in tracking the amount of painkillers being pumped in and out of their supply chains and pharmacies, respectively. The resulting legislation, authored by Rep. Tom Marino, limited the ability of DEA to suspend a company’s license in these situations. Congressman Rogers sponsored the RESTORE Act to fully reinstate the DEA's ability to immediatately suspend a company’s license to distribute, sell or disburse controlled substances if that company’s actions or lack of action pose an "imminent danger to public health or safety." "I've been fighting S. 483 since this harmful bill was introduced in 2015. I personally reached out to the bill's sponsors and those in leadership, sharing my opposition to any legislation that hamstrings the ability of the DEA to go after those responsible for driving addiction in our country - whether intentionally or negligently. Some important changes were made; however, it is clear that the bill has unfortunately had the chilling effect on DEA that I initially feared," said Congressman Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "It's time to restore DEA's full authority to rein in irresponsible actors that are endangering communities around the country. I urge my colleagues to act swiftly on the legislation."
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing legislation to stop fentanyl, a deadly synthetic opioid, at the nation's border. The International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology (INTERDICT) Act, H.R. 2142, provides U.S. Customs and Border Protection with enhanced, portable chemical screening devices to detect fentanyl and other synthetic opioids at ports of entry and at mail facilities. Fentanyl can be up to 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine. In 2014, fentanyl killed 9,500 Americans. "Last year, fentanyl was a contributing factor in nearly half of all drug overdose deaths in Kentucky, killing 623 people and devastating their families," said Congressman Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "We're attacking the drug abuse epidemic from every angle, utilizing Operation UNITE's holistic model including law enforcement, treatment and education. As a first line of defense, stopping this deadly drug from entering our country could save thousands of lives." The majority of fentanyl in the United States originates in Mexico or China and is typically smuggled across the border or sent via mail or express consignment couriers. The INTERDICT Act now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
10.19.2017	CORBIN, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) hosted the Supplier Education and Economic Development (SEED) Defense Contracting Symposium today at the Corbin Center to help educate local employers about how they can compete for more jobs in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. "The Defense Department awarded $448 billion in federal contracts in fiscal year 2015 alone. I believe we could have captured more of those contracts in Kentucky, so that's why we're here - to help our companies become eligible to compete for jobs that we can do right here at home," said Congressman Rogers, who launched SKED 31 years ago to create more jobs in the region. "Several local employers have secured competitive federal contracts for decades, proving our workforce has what it takes to get the job done right. However, we're just scratching the surface of opportunity so far." Dyke Weatherington, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space, Strategic and Intelligence Systems, who is based in the Pentagon, attended the event to discuss the importance of supplying military needs for our warfighters. "Providing a strong industrial base is how the Department of Defense is going to get ahead of the threat," said Weatherington. "With the support of Congress, we are going to push our priorities and there will be lots of opportunities for small business." Prime federal contractors, like Northrop Grumman, Lockheed Martin and Boeing attended the event to meet with local employers to provide information about the requirements and certifications necessary for federal contracts, including HubZone and ISO certifications. "We want to help you get ready to do business with us," said Gwen Tillman, Corporate Manager/Global Supplier for Northrop Grumman Corporation. "With all the changing regulations, it's a challenge to find companies that are engaged and able to keep up with all the regulations that they have to adhere to." Four local employers participated in a panel discussion led by Brett Traver, Executive Director of SKED. Scott Roush from Summit Aviation in Somerset, J.C. Egnew from Outdoor Venture Corporation in Stearns and Bob Schena from Rajant Corporation in Morehead shared their success in creating and retaining jobs through ongoing federal contract work in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. Meanwhile, Rusty Justice from BitSource in Pikeville talked about his interest in expanding. "Our workforce here is second to none. We believe that with all our heart and our pocket book. We could have invested anywhere in the country, but we chose Eastern Kentucky," said Justice, who has hired and trained former coal miners to develop digital software. "When we posted the first radio ad for our first 10 jobs at BitSource, we received 950 applications in the first week. I believe we will see a repopulation of people who want to come back to the region." To help prepare local employers, SKED was recently awarded a federal grant to help 12 companies become ISO certified. "The most important thing we can do is open the door of opportunity for our local employers," said Traver. "We believe this event will bear fruit in the near future in the form of jobs for the people of Southern and Eastern Kentucky." Weatherington provides keynote address about Defense contracts Gwen Tillman discusses requirements for Northrop Grumman contracts Over 100 attendees at the SEED Defense Contracting Symposium Local companies attend SEED Defense Contracting Symposium
10.17.2017	MANCHESTER, Ky. -- The first Save the Children program in the United States started in Harlan County, Kentucky in 1932. Today, it is a global network for educational and wellness programs led with the help of Mark Shriver and award-winning actress Jennifer Garner. On Tuesday, they joined Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers in Clay County to discuss childhood challenges and visit successful programs in rural Eastern Kentucky. "It was an honor to spend the day in Rep. Rogers' district and visit Save the Children's programs in Clay County," said Jennifer Garner, an actress and Save the Children Trustee. "Early childhood education and care help lift kids out of poverty, so we must invest in home visiting and literacy programs, like the ones we saw today in eastern Kentucky. I'm grateful to state and federal leaders like Rep. Rogers, who are helping us shine a light on the good work happening to give kids a brighter future." The group visited Manchester Elementary School where many students receive free tutoring through innovative Save the Children programs to improve reading. As a result, a growing number of students are achieving distinguished or proficient ratings for literacy. "The challenges we face in Eastern Kentucky are not new, but every year, more people are stepping up to invest time and resources to transform this region," said Congressman Rogers. "Thanks to partnerships from superstars, like Jennifer Garner and Mark Shriver, we can elevate awareness, implement effective programs and drive hope where it's needed the most. I appreciate the continued work of Save the Children in the lives of our young students." The group also visited with two families who participate in the Early Steps to School Success Program, which provides children under the age of five with language, social and emotional development skills to ensure every child is ready for Kindergarten. “We were thrilled to visit Save the Children’s programs with Congressman Rogers in his district today, and we are so thankful for his commitment to children’s issues,” said Mark Shriver, Senior Vice President of U.S. Programs and Advocacy for Save the Children. “Save the Children works in eight counties across Kentucky, and serves nearly 2,200 children in Clay County, so we appreciated the opportunity to showcase what we know to be true – early childhood education transforms lives, especially for children living in poverty.” Wrapping up the visit, Garner, Shriver, Rogers and Stivers led a community discussion about childhood education and wellness at the EKU Manchester Campus with approximately 150 attendees. "Save the Children has been a vital resource for Kentucky families and schools for decades, providing children and young parents with new skills and a boost of confidence," said Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers. "These research-based programs are giving our students a brighter future and I'm grateful for the success we are seeing in our students as a result." Save the Children serves 41 Kentucky communities, reaching nearly 18,000 children every year. Mark Shriver spoke to 150 attendees at the EKU Manchester Campus Congressman Rogers welcomes actress Jennifer Garner to Manchester Elementary School Congressman Rogers & Mark Shriver read with a local student Congressman Rogers and Mark Shriver applaud a student for passing all reading quizzes Congressman Rogers and Shriver observe a reading group at Manchester Elementary Left to right: Cynthia Rogers, Jennifer Garner and Congressman Hal Rogers
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers released the following statement applauding the U.S. District Court's rejection of an atheist's challenge to opening prayer before Congress in Barker V. Conroy. The ruling dismissed the lawsuit filed by the Freedom From Religion Foundation and its co-president Dan Barker who aimed to deliver a secular invocation in place of the traditional opening prayer in Congress. "This great nation was established as one nation under God and every day since the first Continental Congress, it has opened in prayer to God led by our elected Chaplain. I believe in the power of prayer and I'm grateful for everyone who uplifts this nation to the Almighty. The ruling itself is an answered prayer, rightfully favoring House Chaplain, Father Pat Conroy and upholding our freedom to conduct prayer before beginning critical business each day for our country." Since the election of the first House Chaplain in 1789, the U.S. House of Representatives has been served by chaplains of various religious denominations, including Baptist, Christian, Congregationalist, Disciples of Christ, Episcopalian, Lutheran, Methodist, Presbyterian, Roman Catholic, Unitarian, and Universalist.
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) testified today before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, as part of a bipartisan hearing regarding the opioid crisis. The hearing brought together Members from both sides of the aisle to discuss the drug abuse epidemic and highlight potential legislative solutions. Congressman Rogers made the following remarks before the committee: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate you holding this hearing to discuss Congress’ continued work on opioid misuse and abuse. Over the past 15 years, many of you have heard me advocate for a holistic approach to addiction, including enforcement, prevention, and treatment measures like those successfully implemented by Operation UNITE in Kentucky. We need to further encourage regional collaboration on this issue that ignores lines on a map. I hope to work with the Committee on this issue in the future. "Today, however, I’d like to focus on treatment. Despite the light we’ve shone on addiction, only 10% of those needing treatment for alcohol- or drug-related addiction actually receive it. Underlying challenges in the treatment workforce further compound this lack of access. "There are simply not enough incentives for health professionals in training to specialize in addiction medicine. Treatment professionals work in stressful environments, receive relatively low pay, and turnover at rates much higher than other health professionals. NIH continually pioneers research on addiction science and new ways to treat this chronic disease, yet America has only half the number of practicing addiction specialists needed to put their findings in practice. "This is a patient safety and public health calamity. Patients in need of addiction treatment ought to have access to specialized care in every corner of this country. That is why I will soon be introducing legislation with my colleague Katherine Clark to create a student loan repayment program for qualified substance use disorder treatment professionals. This program will not only encourage health professionals to pursue careers in addiction medicine, but steer them towards areas most in need of their services. "Though it’s not a silver bullet, this bill would be another substantial step in the right direction. I hope to work with each of you to this end and I thank the Chairman for having me today." To watch the hearing and learn more about the opioid crisis, click here.
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today applauding the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the fiscal year 2018 Budget Resolution (H. Con. Res. 71), which will balance the federal budget over 10 years. The legislation will produce a $9 billion surplus in fiscal year 2027, with a $6.5 trillion deficit reduction. "This is the most comprehensive mandatory reform package in 20 years, saving taxpayer dollars, strengthening our national defense and empowering hardworking Americans," said Congressman Rogers, who voted for the budget resolution. "This budget prepares the way for a simpler, fairer tax code, while reining in wasteful spending and boosting support for our men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces."
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for approving the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36), restricting abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy when unborn children are capable of feeling pain. The bill establishes criminal penalties for any person who performs or attempts an abortion after 20 weeks, with exceptions for saving the life of the mother, and in cases involving rape or incest. "It is our moral duty to protect our innocent unborn children from violent late-term abortions, when medical professionals confirm the fetus responds to pain after 20 weeks," said Congressman Rogers, a long-time member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus. "I was proud to cosponsor this legislation, protecting both the life of our unborn children and their mothers." The bill, also known as Micah's Law, was named for Micah Pickering who was born at the same stage and survived after spending four weeks in intensive care. Medical professionals report anesthesia is used in surgeries for 20-week-old patients still in utero. Meanwhile, it is still permissible in the United States to perform abortions at the same stage of development in the sixth month of pregnancy and beyond. The United States is currently one of only seven countries in the world that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Bureau of Justice Assistance has awarded $600,000 through the Harold Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP) to help combat drug abuse in Kentucky. The Kentucky Injury Prevention and Research Center (KIPRC) plans to utilize the funding to educate prescribers and pharmacists about the data included the Kentucky All Schedule Prescription Electronic Reporting (KASPER) program. KIPRC and a team of researchers will hold quarterly action team meetings to evaluate changes in prescribing practices and abuse trends. "While Kentucky continues to have some of the highest drug overdose rates in the country, we're also leading the charge to save lives and stop illegal drug trade nationwide," said Congressman Rogers, co-founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "KASPER is one of the most functional tools we have to track opioid prescribing and drug abuse trends in our state and this funding will help us utilize the data to improve the accuracy of our efforts." The funding is part of the fiscal year 2017 Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-based Program to improve collaboration and strategic decision-making of regulatory and law enforcement agencies and public health officials to address prescription drug and opioid misuse, save lives and reduce crime. “KASPER has long been a vital tool in our fight against prescription drug abuse in Kentucky, and recent legislative actions are designed to enhance the effectiveness of KASPER,” said Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services Secretary Vickie Yates Brown Glisson. “The Office of Inspector General is delighted to collaborate with the Kentucky Injury Prevention and Research Center to evaluate the impact of legislative actions in reducing substance use disorder and drug overdose deaths in the Commonwealth.” The program is part of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) signed into law last summer.
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and U.S. Representative Harold “Hal" Rogers (R-KY-05) today introduced the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) Reform Act, which would reform the Commission to focus its mission on investing more in the poorest Appalachia communities. The McConnell/Rogers bill would move ARC’s headquarters from Washington, DC to a location in Appalachia. Every other regional commission has its headquarters in its respective region, thereby reducing administrative overhead costs and making the commissions closer and more accountable to the people and communities they serve. The bill also would increase ARC funding to distressed counties under its Area Development Program. Currently, the most distressed counties in the region can only receive up to 30 percent of ARC’s area development funds. The McConnell/Rogers bill would increase that allocation to 60 percent for such projects in the poorest counties. Given the persistent levels of poverty in the distressed counties in the Appalachian region, more area development funding and emphasis should be devoted to these counties. ARC also would be required to submit an annual report to Congress regarding its allocated funds, in dollar amounts and percentage of total appropriations, to distressed counties. “For decades, I have supported ARC and its mission to invest in communities to strengthen economic growth throughout the Appalachian region. However, as I have expressed before, I believe the commission can be improved and made more efficient,” Senator McConnell said. “I am proud to partner with my friend, Congressman Rogers, to introduce our bill to make desperately needed reforms at ARC and provide vital assistance to those who need it most.” “The Appalachian Regional Commission has a critical task—to improve the lives of those who live across Appalachia. However, every President over the past four decades has worked to abolish the ARC, questioning things like waste and mismanagement at the agency, so it’s time for reform,” said Congressman Rogers, who introduced a companion reform bill in the House. “Senator McConnell and I structured this legislation to bring clear direction to the ARC, reviving its core mission to boost economic development and reduce poverty in our most distressed Appalachian counties through meaningful projects. Over the years, the ARC has provided a lifeline for vital programs in our communities, from connecting more families to clean water and sewer, to now helping rural communities transition into the complex digital economy. The bill refocuses their efforts and repositions the ARC directly in its service area to reduce operating expenses and provide better communication about needs in the region.”
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act (H.R. 3354) to fund the federal government in fiscal year 2018. The legislation includes all 12 annual Appropriations bills, and totals $1.2 trillion, including $87 billion in funding for Global War on Terror (GWOT)/Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). It funds critical programs like national defense and economic development, while also working to eliminate wasteful spending. Rep. Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement about his support of the legislation: "This bill beefs up our Armed Forces to ensure our brave men and women in uniform are well-equipped to beat back our enemies overseas and keep us safe here at home. It prioritizes our efforts to combat the drug abuse epidemic, providing robust funding for a comprehensive federal response that mirrors Operation UNITE’s successful three-pronged strategy in Kentucky. "The bill also includes important resources to reinvigorate the economy in our rural coal communities – including strong funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission and another $30 million for the AML pilot program in Kentucky. I have secured two years of funding for this important effort to reclaim and repurpose abandoned mine land to create jobs and long-term opportunities. "I’m optimistic this important legislation will be signed into law before the end of the year so we can continue to build on our progress in Southern and Eastern Kentucky." Though the first four appropriations bills were approved in July, today's passed legislation combined those and the final eight appropriations bills. The legislation now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. BILL HIGHLIGHTS FOR KENTUCKY Combatting Drug Abuse The legislation reiterates Congress’ commitment to addressing the opioid crisis, providing robust funding for a comprehensive federal response. Prevention and Treatment: The bill provides $1.86 billion for the Substance Abuse Block Grant to help states plan, implement and evaluate prevention and treatment activities. In addition, this legislation fulfills the second installment of a two-year, $1 billion commitment combatting opioid addiction through the 21st Century Cures Act and fully funds the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. It also allocates $112 million for CDC Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention and $91 million for Drug Free Communities program. Finally, the bill provides $10 million for a new project to train medical residents and fellows for mental health and addiction treatment in underserved areas that need it the most. Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program: The bill provides $14 million, $2 million above FY17, to support state programs curbing doctor shopping and out-of-control painkiller prescribing. Enforcement: The bill supports the Drug Enforcement Agency’s efforts to prevent, detect, and investigate the diversion of controlled substances with $419.5 million, $30 million more than in FY17. It also provides an additional $21 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, which provides help to areas, like Appalachia, tackle high levels of drug trafficking and related violence. In addition, $500 million is provided for the Byrne JAG Program that is critical to law enforcement as they fight against drug use and violent gang activity in our communities. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): The FDA receives a total of $5.2 billion, including revenue from user fees – $490 million above FY17. This funding will allow the FDA to fully implement new initiatives to encourage development of abuse-deterrent opioids and review new therapies for treating addiction. Economic Development in Rural Communities This legislation prioritizes efforts to drive economic growth in rural America, including Southern and Eastern Kentucky. $182 million for the Abandoned Mine Lands Pilot Program: These funds will enable six participating states to reclaim AML sites in conjunction with economic development projects. Under this funding level, Kentucky will receive an additional $30 million in 2018. $176 million for the Economic Development Administration: Despite an attempt by the Administration to eliminate this program, this bill funds the EDA at $176M, and language in the bill explicitly provides that the EDA shall continue to provide $30 million to assist coal mining communities. $122.7 million for Rural Economic Infrastructure Grants: The bill includes $122.7 million to establish the Rural Economic Infrastructure Grant account. The account uses existing authorities from Community Connect grants, Distance Learning and Telemedicine grants, Community Facility grants, and Rural Assistance Housing grants to provide flexibility and maximize impact. Community Services Block Grant: This legislation provides $600 million to help alleviate poverty and increase self-sufficiency. $3 billion for Community Planning and Development: $2.9 billion is included for Community Development Block Grants and $140 million for NeighborWorks America. These programs provide communities with resources to address a range of community development needs and seek to serve low income communities. Fostering Workforce Training and Educational Achievement $1.7 billion for the Job Corps: This program is a great educational and vocational resource for young men and women. For over 50 years, Job Corps has successfully educated and trained millions of young adults for jobs in high demand industries and trades. $1 billion for TRIO: The bill provides $1 billion for TRIO programs, $200 million more than what the President requested. These programs serve and assist low-income individuals, first-generation college students and individuals with disabilities as they progress from middle school to college. Creating Opportunities for Small Businesses and Entrepreneurs $190 million for Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI): Despite an attempt by the Administration to eliminate funding for this program, this bill provides $190 million for the CDFI program, which has helped small businesses get off the ground. $31 million for SBA Microloans: This funding level is the same as FY 2017, and will help small businesses and certain non-profits start up and expand. Increasing Access to Affordable Housing for Rural Americans Rural Housing Loans and Rental Assistance: The bill provides a total of $24 billion in loan authority for the Single Family Housing guaranteed loan program, the same as FY17. In addition, the bill includes $900 million in direct loans that provide low-income rural families with home loan assistance. $1.345 billion is also provided for rental assistance for affordable rental housing for low-income families and the elderly in rural communities for renewal of all existing rental assistance contracts. $890 million to support for rural housing programs: $850 million is included for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program to help state and local governments provide affordable housing options to low-income people. The bill provides $30 million for Section 4 capacity building and $10 million for the Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program. Steps to Reinvigorate the Coal Industry This legislation stems the tides of Obama’s war on coal, and invests in efforts to revitalize this critical industry. $7.5 billion for the Environmental Protection Agency: This constitutes a reduction of $528 million below the FY 2017 enacted level. The legislation supports the President’s proposal to reshape the agency’s workforce by providing resources requested to offer buyouts and voluntary separation agreements to employees. This bill also reflects the Administration’s goal to rein in outdated, unnecessary and potentially harmful regulations at the EPA. For example, it includes language authorizing the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule. MSHA Reallocation of Resources in Response to Coal Mine Decline: The bill reduces funding for MSHA Coal Enforcement to reflect a reduction in the number of operational mines nationwide, and included the following language:“The Committee notes significant worker dislocations and mine closures as a result of economic conditions throughout the mining industry, and in coal mining in particular. The Committee reiterates its support for the ongoing effort to bring MSHA enforcement into proportion by redistributing resources and activities to the areas where mine production is currently occurring.” Builds on Progress in Border Security and Emergency Preparedness The legislation seeks to ensure that our homeland is safe, our borders are secure, and we are prepared for man-made and natural disasters. $13.8 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP): The bill contains $13.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for CBP – an increase of $1.6 billion above the FY 2017 enacted level. These resources ensure our borders are protected by putting boots on the ground, improving infrastructure and technology, and helping to stem the flow of illegal goods both into and out of the country. Within this total, the legislation includes: $1.6 billion for physical barrier construction along the Southern border – including bollards and levee improvements – meeting the full White House request; $100 million to hire 500 new Border Patrol agents; $131 million for new border technology; $106 million for new aircraft and sensors; and $109 million for new, non-intrusive inspection equipment. $7 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): The bill provides $7 billion for ICE –$619.7 million above the FY 2017 enacted level. Within this total, the legislation includes: $185.6 million to hire 1,000 additional law enforcement officers and 606 support staff; $2 billion – an increase of $30 million above the requested level – for domestic and international investigations programs, including efforts to drug smuggling, combat human trafficking, child exploitation, cybercrime, and visa screening. $8 million for the Federal Emergency Management’s Education, Training, and Exercises Continuing Training funding: $3 million of this funding is specifically designated for FEMA-certified rural and tribal training, which has benefitted the Rural Domestic Preparedness Consortium (RDPC) that operates out of the Center for Rural Development in Somerset, Ky. $690 million for Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighter Grants: This program provides grants enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire-related hazards by providing direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations, and State Fire Training Academies. This funding is for critically needed resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognized standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support community resilience. This is equal to the FY 2017 enacted level and $2 million more than the President’s request. 2016 program recipients from Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District include the McCreary Ambulance Service in Whitley City, the the Wolfcoal Volunteer Fire Department in Breathitt County, Louisa Fire Department in Lawrence County, Jenkins Fire Department in Letcher County, Freetown Fire Department in Perry County, and the East Bernstadt Fire Department in Laurel County. Other Bill Highlights This legislation includes several other of Fifth District priorities, including efforts to preserve the sanctity of life, sustain our amazing national parks, and ensure that every American has access to clean and safe drinking water. $95 million for Bureau of Prisons construction: This is $45 million more than the enacted FY17 level, and will allow for continued progress related to the federal prison in Letcher County. $275 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF): The bill provides $275 million for LWCF programs – $211 million above the President’s request. State and local recreation and battlefield preservation programs are prioritized, while strategic investments in federal land acquisition are recommended. $2.9 billion for the National Park Service (NPS): The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, a decrease of $64 million below the FY 2017 level. Within the total, the bill retains $55 million targeted to park operations and maintenance to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog. $2 billion for the EPA’s Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds: The bill includes a total of $2 billion for these funds, including $1.1 billion for the Drinking Water fund and $863 million for the Clean Water fund. These funds support local drinking water and sewer construction projects, and the bill also provides funding to improve water quality and ensure the safety of drinking water in rural communities through technical assistance grants. $300 million for the Legal Services Corporation: Despite the President’s attempt to eliminate this program, this bill provides $300 million for the Legal Services Corporation. These funds have been recently utilized by many across southern and eastern Kentucky to help victims of the Eric C. Conn incidents. Protects the Sanctity of Life: expands a policy prohibiting U.S. assistance to foreign nongovernmental organizations that promote or perform abortions, called “the Mexico City Policy,” to all global health programs. BILL INFORMATION: For a detailed summaries, please visit: Agriculture Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394939 Commerce/Justice/Science Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394951 Department of Defense Appropriations bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394930 Energy and Water Appropriations bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394941 Financial Services Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394953 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394983 Interior/Environment Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394981 Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394995 Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394925 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill- https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394909 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394988 Transportation/Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394975 For the text of the legislation and the bill reports, please visit: https://rules.house.gov/bill/115/hr-3354
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House of Representatives today for passing the bipartisan Firefighter Cancer Registry Act of 2017, (H.R. 931), by a unanimous voice vote. The bill requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to develop a "Firefighter Registry" to track cancer rates among firefighters. The information will be collected on a voluntary basis to help the CDC learn more about smoke inhalation and other factors impacting the health of our volunteer and career firefighters. "Most of the men and women who respond to fire emergencies in southern and eastern Kentucky voluntarily risk their lives to save others and protect local homes and businesses as volunteer firefighters," said Rogers, who cosponsored the bill. "This registry is a step in the right direction to help protect their health, while also providing medical experts with more information about cancer." The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to read the bill.
09.12.2017	CONTACT: Mike Burns (Lowey), 202.225.6506 Engel Press Office, (202) 226-9103 Danielle Smoot (Rogers), 606.679.8346 Cory Fritz (Royce): 202-225-5021 Lowey, Rogers, Engel, Royce Send Bipartisan Letter to OMB Director Mulvaney on State Department Reorganization Letter urges Director Mulvaney to work with Congress as it begins to consider reorganization of State Department and USAID. WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Harold “Hal” Rogers (R-KY5), Eliot Engel (D-NY16), and Ed Royce (R-CA39), sent a letter today to Mick Mulvaney, Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), on the Office’s role in the reorganization of the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The letter was prompted by recent reports that State and USAID are scheduled to turn over their recommendations for reorganization this week. “We firmly believe that reforming the diplomatic and development architecture of the United States should enhance – not impede – the ability of the State Department and USAID to advance our most pressing foreign policy priorities,” the Members wrote. “Smart investments in diplomacy and development can help accelerate economic growth, create opportunity, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, stabilize communities, and mitigate the need for costly military interventions that put our Armed Forces in harm’s way. Poor planning and execution can have the exact opposite effect.” “Congress has a critical role to play in the ongoing reform process. Without Congressional assent, reform will not be sustainable over the long-term. Though we have held periodic meetings with teams from the State Department and USAID, we have yet to engage with OMB on the role that it will play in this process. Toward this end, and consistent with the requirements of Section 7076(a)(2) of the Fiscal Year 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act, we request that you and your colleagues brief us as soon as possible on the role you intend to play and your work to date; share with the appropriate Congressional committees the submissions by the State Department and USAID required pursuant to Executive Order 13781 of March 13, 2017; and engage directly and often with Congress before taking any actions to implement reform proposals that affect the instruments of U.S. foreign diplomacy and development,” the Members concluded. Lowey is the Ranking Member and Rogers is the Chairman of the House State and Foreign Operations (SFOPS) Appropriations Subcommittee. Engel is the Ranking Member and Royce is the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The House Appropriations and Foreign Affairs Committees are responsible for funding and overseeing the work of State and USAID. The full text of the letter can be read here. ###
09.07.2017	MOREHEAD, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced today that Robert M. Lightfoot, Jr., Acting Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will join him and Dr. Jay Morgan, President of Morehead State University (MSU), on Wednesday, September 20, 2017 to visit MSU's Space Science program and learn about the growing aerospace industry in Morehead and across Eastern Kentucky. Administrator Lightfoot and Congressman Rogers will address students, local leaders and the general public on September 20 at 12:00 p.m. at the Morehead Conference Center. The event is free and open to the public. "Kentucky's aerospace industry is leading the nation and Morehead State University is on the forefront of space science education and engineering," said Congressman Rogers. "I invited Administrator Lightfoot to see the success of our students first-hand and to provide his expertise about how we can harness the ingenuity of our students and workforce to attract more opportunities to Eastern Kentucky." Morehead State University offers one of only five space science programs in the country. The Space Science Center has become renowned for research in nanosatellite technologies. MSU has been involved in the launch of five NASA-funded satellites: CXBN, CXBN-2, Lunar ICEcube, Ky-Sat 2 and the DM-7 Flight Demonstration. “Morehead State University is pleased to see the Acting administrator of NASA visit our campus," said Dr. Morgan. "Our Space Science program is one of our distinguished programs and we hope to continue to develop partnerships with NASA in the years to come.” Robert Lightfoot became the acting NASA adminstrator on Jan. 20, 2017. For the last five years, he served as associate administrator, the agency's highest-ranking civil servant. Prior to his work at NASA Headquarters, he was the director of the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala. Click here to learn more about Administrator Lightfoot. Robert M. Lightfoot, Jr. Acting Administrator of NASA
08.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (R-KY) released the following statement regarding the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) decision to host a public meeting next month to seek the expertise of the Pediatric Advisory Committee about the use of prescription opioids containing hydrocodone or codeine to treat a cough in pediatric patients. The decision comes less than two weeks after President Trump declared a national emergency on the opioid crisis in America. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 62 people died every day in 2015 from an overdose death involving prescription opioids. “I applaud FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb for taking preliminary steps to safeguard our children and educate prescribers about the unnecessary use of highly addictive painkillers to treat a child’s cough. The risk of addiction and other detrimental side effects should be primary considerations when prescribing opioids to children. It's encouraging to see the FDA take additional measures to make informed decisions before approving powerful painkillers for the nation’s smallest patients. Drug manufacturers who stand to profit from the sale of these medications should never be the sole advisors to the FDA." In December 2015, Congressman Rogers and 14 of his colleagues signed a joint letter asking the FDA to reconsider its decision to approve OxyContin for use by children and urged the federal agency to allow an advisory committee to gather public input and expert testimony before making an official recommendation. Earlier this year, the FDA changed labeling requirements for prescription codeine medications to better protect children from serious risks, including life-threatening respiratory depression and death. The new labels include a warning that codeine should not be used for any reason, including treatment of cough, in children younger than 12 years. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
08.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement in response to a report about health challenges in Appalachia conducted by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), the Robert Wood Foundation (RWJF) and the Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky. “Appalachia has always faced more health challenges due to a variety of factors, including poverty, unhealthy lifestyles, long commutes for health care, fewer physicians, and others listed in the report. It is heartbreaking to see our people continue suffering from high rates of heart disease, lung disease, cancer, obesity and diabetes. "However, despite our challenges, I’m encouraged by the lives being saved as a result of the work going on in our communities, hospitals, colleges and universities. For instance, the report shows less people are dying in the Appalachian region from heart disease - down 39%, cancer - down 14% and infant mortality - down 19%. Every life saved sparks hope for us to continue the work of advancing health care, education and other measures that improve the quality of life for people living and working in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. "Working in concert with the mission of SOAR – Shaping Our Appalachian Region – I've invited federal leaders from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to join us in Eastern Kentucky on several occasions over the last several years to examine our health challenges first-hand and offer expertise and assistance. Together, we will continue to make critical strides in the health and well-being of everyone in Appalachia." The first report of the mutli-part health research project entitled, Creating a Culture of Health in Appalachia: Disparities and Bright Spots, is available at arc.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal" Rogers (R-KY) issued the following statement on President Trump's new strategy in Afghanistan and South Asia. "The men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces have stood fearlessly in the face of terrorism to ensure the horrific bloodshed that took place nearly 16 years ago on September 11th, never happen again on American soil. Since that day, our military leaders have gained valuable experience and intelligence regarding the new evil we face and the unprecedented measures required to prevent future attacks. "I applaud President Trump's determination to defeat terrorism through a new comprehensive strategy that utilizes diplomacy, economic assistance, and our military to deny safe havens for terrorists in Afghanistan and South Asia. With numerous terrorist organizations operating in that region, we must remain vigilant in our national security efforts and learn from past mistakes. "As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I agree that a winning strategy must include robust diplomacy, responsible foreign assistance, expanded authority and resources for our troops in the field, and strong consequences for any nation that harbors terrorists. I look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that it has the resources necessary to carry out this plan, while also ensuring that we maintain proper oversight on behalf of the American People."
08.17.2017	WILLIAMSBURG, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers met with community members and leaders today in Whitley and Knox Counties. Rogers was the keynote speaker for a joint meeting of the Southern Kentucky and Knox County Chambers of Commerce at the Williamsburg Tourism and Convention Center. He presented an update about on-going work in Washington, DC and Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District, including new grant funding opportunities to reclaim abandoned mine lands and repurpose them for economic development projects, the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative, and the KentuckyWired project that will connect every county in the state to high-speed, high-capacity broadband. "For the first time in Eastern Kentucky's history, we are in the mix and broadband will place us in world-wide competition," said Rogers, who helped launch the broadband project through the SOAR initiative. Rogers also visited CSRA, inc. in Barbourville where he spoke with nearly 100 employees. The facility supports the work of federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Health and Human Services. "I'm thrilled with what you're doing," said Rogers. "The way we process information has drastically changed. With the advent of KentuckyWired, broadband will allow this company and countless more to expand operations, giving more people the opportunity to stay in Eastern Kentucky to work and raise their families." The KCEOC Community Action Agency (CAA) also hosted Congressman Rogers for a meeting with directors of nine CAAs in Eastern Kentucky. They discussed the impact of programs, like Head Start and heating assistance in the region. Congressman Rogers speaks to Southern Kentucky and Knox County Chambers of Commerce Bruce Carpenter, Executive Director of the Southern Kentucky Chamber and Claudia Greenwood, Executive Director of the Knox County Chamber present Congressman Rogers with a gift in appreciation of his service to Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District Congressman Rogers speaks to employees at CSRA Congressman Rogers meets with leaders from Community Action Agencies in Kentucky Congressman Rogers meets with leaders from Community Action Agencies in Kentucky Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
08.16.2017	LONDON, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) met with leaders in the Cumberland Valley region today to discuss upcoming opportunities and progress in southern and eastern Kentucky during two events in London, Kentucky. Leaders from the London-Laurel County Tourist Commission, City of London Tourist Commission, London-Laurel County Chamber of Commerce and Laurel County Industrial Development Authority presented updates about ongoing projects in Laurel County, including plans for broadband development through the KentuckyWired project, tourism initiatives and business recruitment. "Laurel County's industrial buildings are filled to capacity and expanding, so you've clearly been planning your work and working your plan," said Rogers. "The future is brighter than it's ever been before all across southern and eastern Kentucky." Rogers appluaded completion of the new frontage road alongside I-75 between exits 41 and 38 for which he and former State Senator Tom Jensen helped secure funding a decade ago. Rogers was also the keynote speaker for the Cumberland Valley Area Development District's monthly meeting in London. During the meeting, he discussed new grant funding now available for local governments to reclaim and repurpose abandoned mine lands (AML) for economic development projects. "Kentucky has $25 million available for the 2017 AML Pilot Program in southern and eastern Kentucky to spur job creation, boost tourism and help revitalize our region," said Rogers who first championed the new program in Congress in 2016. "So far, the program has funded nine projects in nine counties in our region, providing much-needed assistance in our communities suffering most from the Obama-era war on coal." Rogers also said grant funding is now available through the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) for local businesses interested in becoming ISO-certified, a requirement for most federal work contracts. "We have the best workforce in the country and I believe we could do more work for the federal governemnt right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. When businesses have an ISO certification, they can compete for new opportunities and create more jobs here at home," said Rogers. On October 19, 2017 at the Corbin Center, SKED will host a Supplier Education and Economic Development (SEED) Contracting Symposium to help businesses learn more about federal contracting requirements and opportunities. For more information, contact SKED at 606-677-6100. Rogers speakers to leaders in Laurel County Rogers speaks to Cumberland Valley Area Development District Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
08.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers released the following statement regarding news of a white nationalist group planning a rally in Lexington, Kentucky in opposition to removal of Confederate statues: "America is a nation that defends peace worldwide and we should strive to live in harmony on our own soil. I condemn the hateful, divisive language and brutal actions we witnessed in Charlottesville, Virginia and I extend my heartfelt condolences to the victims and their families. Democracy and diversity are part of the cornerstones of our great Nation, and bigotry and racism reverse the progress we’ve made. I pray that the violent displays in Virginia will not be repeated in Kentucky.” — U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05)
08.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement in response to President Trump's national emergency declaration regarding the opioid crisis in the United States. “The deadly opioid epidemic continues to claim one life every 15 minutes in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and I whole-heartedly support President Trump’s declaration of this heartbreaking loss as a national emergency. The good news is we know much more about drug addiction than ever before and the House has already passed legislation to invest $8 billion in 2018 for law enforcement, treatment and education to holistically address drug abuse and save lives. I look forward to working with President Trump and the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis to turn the tide of addiction and stop illegal drug trade across our nation’s borders." To learn more about Congressman Rogers' work to combat the drug abuse epidemic, visit halrogers.house.gov.
08.08.2017	HAZARD, Ky. (Aug. 8, 2017) – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet (EEC) today announced five grants worth more than $5 million to spur economic development and job creation in Eastern Kentucky. Two of the grants were awarded by the EEC’s Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, as part of the 2016 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. Breathitt County Fiscal Court has been given preliminary approval for a $1.95 million grant towards the development of its South Fork elk view water line, and campground. The Hazard Community and Technical College (HCTC) has also received preliminary approval for a $1.15 million grant to create a utility training program at its Leslie County campus in Hyden, Ky. Both projects were unveiled at the Kentucky River Area Development District (ADD) office in Hazard, Ky. by Congressman Rogers, who championed $195 million in federal funding for the AML Pilot program over the last two years. The announcements are part of a joint effort with Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR), a grassroots effort to revitalize the future of Eastern Kentucky. Joining Congressman Rogers today were state Representatives Chris Fugate, Tim Couch and Toby Herald, as well as Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely and Jared Arnett, Executive Director of SOAR. Also announced were $2 million in U. S. Army Corps of Engineers grants for three infrastructure projects in Eastern Kentucky. These included $1 million for a water line extension for a federal prison at Roxanna in Letcher County, $500,000 to build three miles of sewer mains and pumping stations in Leslie County, and $500,000 to replace sewer pipes and manholes in Knott County. “We are actively investing in the revival of coal country by opening new doors of opportunity for job creation, tourism and innovation across the region,” said Congressman Rogers, who is also advocating for continued federal funding for the AML Pilot Program in 2018. “Together, we are paving a brighter future for Eastern Kentucky, through improved infrastructure and a stronger workforce.” “One of these projects will leverage the natural landscape of this beautiful region and the other will retrain and employ coal miners who have been dislocated from the workforce,” said Governor Matt Bevin. “Both will bring needed jobs and economic stimulus to the area.” The Breathitt County project will include trail rides for horses and off-highway vehicles, as well as both primitive and RV camping. The HCTC utility training program in Hyden will provide substation maintenance, drone operation and crane operator training to displaced miners, among others and in so doing add significant dollars to the local economy through good-paying jobs. This will provide workforce training to residents living in Leslie, Clay, Harlan, Bell, Laurel, and Jackson counties. The South Fork elk view water line and campground and the utility training are part of Kentucky’s $30 million portion of the federal AML Pilot program, first funded in 2016 through the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE), to help revive communities in coal-producing states hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry in recent years. Secretary Snavely called the project funding a continued example of how the AML Pilot program is making a difference in Eastern Kentucky. “It is rewarding to see so many worthy projects get funding so that they can be an important part of the economic rebuilding of Eastern Kentucky,” Sec. Snavely said. The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. Kentucky’s 2017 AML Pilot Program granting period opened on August 4, 2017. Application forms for project submittals can be found at AMLPILOT or by calling or emailing Mr. Bob Scott, Director, KY Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 300 Sower Blvd., Frankfort, KY 40601. 502-782-6761, BobF.Scott@ky.gov.
08.08.2017	JACKSON, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined state and local leaders today in Breathitt County for a ground breaking ceremony to extend water lines to the Jackson Weather Service. The nearly $300,000 project will provide running water to the Jackson Weather Service for the first time since it was established nearly 40 years ago. "Over the last four decades, the Jackson Weather Service has protected our people from flash flooding, tornadoes and other severe weather events, and the employees deserve to have this basic resource, rather than relying on gallons of water for basic needs," said Rogers, who supported the project. "This is one of countless projects supported by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), and that's why I continue to fight to protect the ARC from proposed elimination in the President's budget." The ARC awarded $215,000 for the project and the Jackson Weather Service invested $75,000, alongside the Breathitt County Fiscal Court. Joining Congressman Rogers to share remarks were Sandy Dunahoo, Commissioner of the Kentucky Department for Local Government; State Rep. Toby Herald; Shawn Harley, Meteorologist-in-charge; J.L. Smith, Breathitt County Judge Executive; and Rose Wolfe, Mayor of Jackson. The water extension project is expected to be finished by the end of the year. Ground-breaking ceremony for Jackson Weather Service water lines Congressman Rogers speaks to attendees at the ground-breaking ceremony
08.04.2017	PIKEVILLE, Ky. -- Approximately 1,250 people attended the 2017 SOAR Summit today at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. It's the fourth regional conference hosted by the grassroots nonprofit organization, Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) to brainstorm ideas, share resources and develop innovative opportunities to revitalize and diversify the coalfields and rural communities across Kentucky's Appalachian region. Keynote speakers included UK Men's Basketball Coach John Calipari; Congressman Hal Rogers; Governor Matt Bevin; Joan Ferrini-Mundy, COO of the National Science Foundation; Max Espinoza, Senior Program Officer for U.S. Policy, Advocacy and Communications for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; John Stephenson, Senior Manager of Public Policy for Amazon Web Services; and Phillip Brown, Executive Director of the Kentucky Communications Network Authority. Coach Calipari said one of the first fundamentals of having a good team is teaching each player being a good teammate. "They learn what it means to be a servant leader. They learn what it means to be about the other guy more than yourself. The greatest thing about Eastern Kentucky is you're about each other,"said Coach Calipari. "When you make life about others it becomes easier, way easier, way more rewarding than wins and losses and money. It's 'how can I help someone else achieve' and...you have that here. That's why businesses will come here, and when they come here they will thrive." The morning session closed with a joint announcement from Congressman Rogers and Governor Bevin touting a $200,000 grant for the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) to help Eastern Kentucky companies become ISO certified, which is often required for government contracts. In conjunction, SKED will host a Defense Contracting Symposium on October 19th at the Corbin Center in Whitley County to provide information about how to prepare for government contract work. "We have some of the best machinists in the country and I believe we should be fueling our nation's military with our skills,"said Congressman Rogers. "The grant will help 12 companies become ISO certified, elevating our regional resume for better paying jobs and federal contract opportunities." Several potential new employers attended the summit to learn more about Eastern Kentucky and the ongoing work to attract new industry to the region. "This is an area where people want to work, where there is pride in what is done. Where people have a sense of loyalty and a sense of home, and a sense of roots, and a sense of commitment,"said Gov. Bevin. "What I love about the people of Eastern Kentucky, the SOAR region, is you're not afraid of hard work. That's why it's working. When one part of the state is doing well, so too is the other, and it's starting to spread from east to west." Jared Arnett, Executive Director of SOAR also announced $10,000 in mini-grants funded by BB&T and a $2,000 grant generated by proceeds from the SOAR 5K race held in June. The $2,000 SOAR mini-grant was awarded to Manchester Memorial Hospital's Telehealth Program. Each of the BB&T mini-grant recipients were awarded $1,000, including: Last Mile Fiber Infrastructure Group; Paths2Promise; America's Entrepreneurial Schools; Appalachian Pregnancy Care Center; Cultivating a Culture of Health in Central Appalachia; Community Health Initiative; Homeplace Clinic; Teleworks USA; Pikeville Farmers Market Production Initiatives; and the Himler Tourism Project. Arnett also announced new opportunities will be created in the next several months to connect more businesses with SOAR activities. "We're going to create a strategic partner program, so that your organization can become a formalized strategic partner with SOAR," said Arnett. "If you're working with broadband or health, you can become a partner with SOAR. We are going to build an organized database and committees in your communities to help shape the next generation." To learn more about SOAR, visit http://soar-ky.org. If you missed the SOAR Summit, you can watch portions of the conference on WYMT.com, KET.org and EKBTV.com Gov. Bevin, Brad Calipari, Congressman Rogers, Coach Calipari Congressman Rogers speaks to SOAR crowd Students from Oneida Baptist Institute and Clay County High School performed their original song "Stay in Clay" at the SOAR Summit, which received a standing ovation from the 1,250 attendees
08.03.2017	BELFRY, Ky. -- More than 100 job seekers attended the Tug Valley Job and Resource Fair today cohosted by Congressmen Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) and Evan Jenkins (R-W.Va.) at Belfry High School. Employers and educators from more than 40 businesses and schools offered jobs, education and training during the event. "Our congressional districts have a lot in common, so Congressman Evan Jenkins and I are proud to team up to advocate for our Appalachian region, and jobs are at the top of our lists," said Congressman Rogers. "Our best resource is our people, so we're here to help connect our incredible workforce to employers with good paying jobs and educators who can enhance their skill sets." The job fair highlighted more than 100 vacancies at the Kentucky Department of Corrections and UPS; 60 available positions at Halliburton and more than 20 job openings at the Mountain Comprehensive Care Centers. The job fair was organized by Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR), Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP), American Job Centers, Carl D. Perkins Job Corp, Belfry Volunteer Fire Department, Belfry High School, local chambers of commerce, Big Sandy Community Action Agency and the Big Sandy Area Development District. Congressman Rogers greets job seekers at the Tug Valley Job & Resource Fair Congressmen Rogers & Jenskins greet folks at the job fair Tug Valley Job & Resource Fair
08.03.2017	PIKEVILLE, Ky. (August 3, 2017) -- On Thursday, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined state and local leaders in Pikeville to break ground on the Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park at Marion's Branch in Pikeville, Kentucky. The project is one of the first Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program projects in the country. Congressman Rogers has championed the AML Pilot Program in Washington since 2016 to help boost reclamation and economic development in coal producing states that have been hardest hit by the recent decline of the coal industry. "The War on Coal left behind 12,000 laid off coal miners in Eastern Kentucky, but the outlook is much better standing on the mountaintop where economic developent and broadband connectivity are in the pipeline," said Congressman Rogers. "The AML Pilot Program is already helping restore our land, so we can create jobs, build upon our infrastructure and improve tourism opportunities across the region." The $5 million grant will help construct a 50,000 square-foot spec building at the Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park, which includes 400 acres of available reclaimed land. Thus far, seven projects in Eastern Kentucky have been awarded AML Pilot Program grants through the Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcment and the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet. Since 2016, Congress has approved $195 million for the AML Pilot Program, of which Kentucky has received $55 million. The Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park has also received $34.6 million in grants and loans for the property purchase, construction of a new road and bridge, and new sewer, water and transmission lines. The infrastructure funding for the project was supported by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development, the Economic Development Administration, a Community Development Block Grant, and coal severance money. As part of the AML grant, conduit will be installed for high speed broadband through the KentuckyWired initiative that will provide 1 gigabyte service to the park. The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, Department for Local Government, Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. Ground Breaking for the Kentucky Enterprise Industrial Park
08.03.2017	BELFRY, Ky. -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) honored Coach Philip Haywood for his championship-laden career and unmatched success as the Head Coach of the Belfry High School Football Team. Most recently, Coach Haywood was selected as Coach of the Year by the National High School Athletic Coaches Association. "Coach Haywood's state football championships and national recognitions are only a reflection of the tenacious work that goes on behind the scenes - in the locker rooms, on the practice field and outside of Belfry High School," said Congressman Rogers. "Coach Haywood is more than a football coach; he is a life coach, driving hope in these mountains now for over four generations of football players and families." Rogers presented Coach Haywood with a flag that had been flown over the U.S. Capitol in his honor and a framed copy of remarks that Rogers submitted to the Congressional Record to recognize Coach Haywood's accomplishments. Click here to download a copy of Congressman Rogers' tribute to Coach Haywood in the Congressional Record. Coach Haywood & Congressman Rogers Rogers presents Coach Haywood with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in his honor
08.02.2017	SALYERSVILLE, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) joined local officials in Salyersville, along with leaders from Eastern Kentucky PRIDE and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today to break ground on the new Magoffin County Industrial Park Extension Project. The $2.11 million project will extend service to 100 more households with the addition of approximately 50,000 linear feet of wastewater collection lines from the existing treatment plant along US 460 to Gifford Road. "Magoffin County is perfectly positioned for growth and high-tech jobs. Sitting at this grand intersection of our region, Salyersville is now a major thoroughfare for Eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Rogers. "This sewer extension project is just the next step to really take advantage of this prime piece of Kentucky real estate and become another hub for Silicon Holler." The new industrial park will have access to broadband, providing new opportunities for high-tech industry recruitment and job growth. The project was funded by a $1.06 million grant through PRIDE and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and $1.05 million from coal severance funds through the Kentucky Local Government Economic Development Fund. State Senator Brandon Smith and State Rep. John Blanton also participated in the ground breaking ceremony. The project is scheduled to be completed in one year.
08.02.2017	PRESTONSBURG, Ky. (Aug. 2, 2017) – U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet (EEC) today announced three grants worth almost $5 million to spur economic development and job creation in Eastern Kentucky. Two of the grants were awarded by the EEC’s Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, as part of the 2016 Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot program to revitalize the coalfields in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. The City of Prestonsburg has been given preliminary approval for a $1.95 million grant towards the development of its Prestonsburg to David “Rails to Trails” project. In addition, Royalton Trail Town, Inc. has been preliminarily approved for a $1.9 million grant towards the development of a campsite/recreational area on a 15-acre tract in Royalton that lies along the Dawkins Line Rail Trail and the Licking River. Both projects were unveiled at the Big Sandy Area Development District office in Prestonsburg, Ky. by Congressman Rogers, who championed $195 million in federal funding for the AML Pilot program over the last two years. The announcements are part of a joint effort with Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR), a grassroots effort to revitalize the future of Eastern Kentucky. Joining Congressman Rogers were state Senator Brandon Smith, and state Representatives John Blanton and Larry Brown, as well as Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Charles Snavely. Also announced was a $1 million U. S. Army Corps of Engineers grant to help construct a new Big Sandy Regional Waste Water Treatment Plant and provide sanitary sewer service to 3,000 families and 300 businesses along the U.S. 23 corridor between Prestonsburg and Pikeville. “We’re actively investing in the revival of coal country by opening new doors of opportunity for job creation, tourism and innovation across the region,” said Congressman Rogers, who is also advocating for continued federal funding for the AML Pilot Program in 2018. “Together, we are paving a brighter future for Eastern Kentucky, through improved infrastructure and a stronger workforce.” “Projects such as these will help establish eastern Kentucky as a significant tourist attraction, and will also bring sustainable jobs and much-needed revenue to the region,” Gov Bevin said. The “Rails to Trails” project will acquire old CSX rail lines to develop trails from Prestonsburg to David, including a Levisa Fork water trail beginning at the Middle Creek National Battlefield. The Royalton Trail Town Development project will include campsites with cabins for rent and horse barns. The project will spur economic development and recreational growth in Magoffin County and the three-county area directly impacted by the 36-mile Dawkins Line Rail Trail. Both projects are part of Kentucky’s $30 million portion of the federal AML Pilot program, first funded in 2016 through the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE), to help revive communities in coal-producing states hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry in recent years. Secretary Snavely called the project funding a continued example of how the AML Pilot program is making a difference in Eastern Kentucky. “It is rewarding to see so many worthy projects get funding so that they can be an important part of the economic rebuilding of Eastern Kentucky,” Sec. Snavely said. Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR, called the projects another step toward success. “The investments in these projects are a direct result of the faith and grit of the people of Eastern Kentucky, sparking hope and encouragement as we work together toward a better future.” The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the SOAR initiative in Eastern Kentucky, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2018 (FY18) Make America Secure Appropriations Act,H.R. 3219, to advance national security, enhance care for our veterans, provide critical infrastructure funding and maintain fiscal discipline. Additionally, the bill protects the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) from proposed elimination and fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for troops, the largest increase in eight years. "This legislation will ensure that we as the Congress uphold our most sacred responsibility - to provide for our nation's common defense. As promised to the American people, we are rebuilding and modernizing our military as an international powerhouse by better equipping our troops, strengthening counter-terrorism effforts and reestablishing confidence with our allies," said Rogers, Chairman of House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. "Under the previous administration, our Department of Defense faced needless uncertainty. I am proud that we are now turning the tide - providing our troops and their commanders with the necessary resources to respond to threats from countries like Russia, China and Iran, as well as crush the violent extremists who wish to do us harm." The legislation combines four of the federal funding bills for FY18 already approved by the House Appropriations Committee, including: Defense; Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; Legislative Branch; and Energy and Water. The bill also includes $1.6 billion to secure our Southern border, meeting the full White House request. The House Appropriations Committee passed all 12 federal funding bills after holding 74 oversight and budget hearings and listening to more than 400 witnesses to ensure they addressed the needs of the American people. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to watch Congressman Rogers' floor speech in support of the legislation. Click here for more information about the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. Bill Highlights The legislation provides $658.1 billion for the Department of Defense and includes: Continued rebuilding of U.S. Armed Forces; Training and equipment for our troops to maintain our military superiority; The largest pay raise for our troops in eight years; and Cutting-edge defense technology for our military. Military Construction and Veterans Affairs is funded at $88.8 billion and includes: The highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs; Support for VA patients, including mental health care services, suicide prevetion, opioid abuse prevention and homless veterans services; and Increasing funding for construction of critical military infrastructure to keep our troops prepared and healthy. The legislation provides $37.6 billion for Energy and Water Development, including: An increase of funding for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons programs to strengthen national security; Improvements in public safety, job creation and economic development through support for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Efforts to move the U.S. toward energy independence through investments in the Department of Energy; and A reduction of regulations, including authorization for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw from the Waters of the U.S. rule. The Legislative Branch is provided with $3.58 billion and includes: Security for Members of Congress, staff and the people they serve; Critical functions of the House of Representatives; and A continued pay freeze for Members of Congress. Physical Barrier Construction is funded at $1.6 billion, including: Security for our Southern border; and Bollards and levee improvements. Bill Information For a bill overview, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/national_security_package_one_pager.pdf For a detailed summaries of the four bills, please visit: Department of Defense Appropriations billhttps://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394930 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations billhttps://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394909 Energy and Water Appropriations billhttps://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394941 Legislative Branch Appropriations billhttps://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394925 For the text of the legislation, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394925 For the bill reports, please visit: Department of Defense Appropriations bill reporthttps://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt219/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt219.pdf Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill reporthttps://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt188/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt188.pdf Energy and Water Appropriations bill report https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt230/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt230.pdf Legislative Branch Appropriations bill report https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-115hrpt199/pdf/CRPT-115hrpt199.pdf Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives passed sweeping sanctions today against Russia, Iran and North Korea. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act,H.R. 3364, to increase economic and political pressure on these three aggressive regimes that continue to threaten U.S. allies and undermine national security. "Aggressive nations that seek to destroy the United States or her allies must be held accountable and these broad sanctions send a clear message to any adversary that promotes terrorism or threatens the United States," said Congressman Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. "We cannot waste time in passing this legislation in the wake of North Korea's growing nuclear arsenal, Iran's developing ballistic missile program, or Russia's cyber attacks." In part, the sanctions specifically aim to deter North Korea from threatening global security. North Korea has conducted 17 missile tests since the beginning of the year, including an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) capable of striking the United States. The legislation also holds Russia accountable for cyber attacks and supplying weapons to the Assad regime, and extending the deadly civil war and continued violence in Ukraine. It also removes billions of dollars in Obama-era sanctions relief in Iran where terrorism and other crimes against humanity continue to be supported by the radical regime. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration with the support of President Trump.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives passed sweeping sanctions today against Russia, Iran and North Korea. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act,H.R. 3364, to increase economic and political pressure on these three aggressive regimes that continue to threaten U.S. allies and undermine national security. "Aggressive nations that seek to destroy the United States or her allies must be held accountable and these broad sanctions send a clear message to any adversary that promotes terrorism or threatens the United States," said Congressman Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. "We cannot waste time in passing this legislation in the wake of North Korea's growing nuclear arsenal, Iran's developing ballistic missile program, or Russia's cyber attacks." In part, the sanctions specifically aim to deter North Korea from threatening global security. North Korea has conducted 17 missile tests since the beginning of the year, including an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) capable of striking the United States. The legislation also holds Russia accountable for cyber attacks and supplying weapons to the Assad regime, and extending the deadly civil war and continued violence in Ukraine. It also removes billions of dollars in Obama-era sanctions relief in Iran where terrorism and other crimes against humanity continue to be supported by the radical regime. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration with the support of President Trump.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed eight bills to improve the quality of life for veterans, including a lifetime extension for the GI Bill. Rather than limiting the time in which a veteran must use their education benefits in the GI Bill to only 15 years, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, H.R. 3218 will allow new service members to use those benefits throughout their lifetimes. The bill also includes a pilot program to help veterans become prepared for science and technology jobs. "Our veterans and military families deserve the very best opportunities that we can provide, from healthcare, to education, training and employment," said Congressman Rogers, a veteran of the Kentucky National Guard. "Together, these bills will improve the quality of life for veterans, while also increasing transparency in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs." The House passed the following bills, which now head to the U.S. Senate for consideration. 1) H.R. 3218 - The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 (described above). 2) H.R. 282 - The Military Residency Choice Act, would allow people who marry a member of the military stationed in a different state to change their residency to the service member’s state for tax and voting purposes. 3) H.R. 1058 - The VA Provider Equity Act would allow podiatrists to serve as supervisors in the VA’s Veterans Health Administration, and would also allow the salaries of podiatric surgeons to be increased if they are in one of these roles. 4) H.R. 1690 - The Department of Veterans Affairs Bonus Transparency Act would require the VA to provide several congressional committees with an annual report on employee bonuses. 5) H.R. 2006 - The VA Procurement Efficiency and Transparency Act would require the VA to record cost savings achieved through the use of competitive contracting procedures. The bill also would direct the VA to use a standard department-wide procurement template that could be customized for particular situations. 6) H.R. 2781 - The Ensuring Veteran Enterprise Participation in Strategic Sourcing Act would require the VA to certify to Congress that a sufficient number of small businesses owned by veterans are receiving contracts awarded through a government-wide purchasing program. 7) H.R. 2749 - The Protecting Business Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2017, would modify a requirement for veteran-owned small businesses to perform a majority of work in small-business contracts awarded by the Veterans Affairs Department. 8) H.R. 1848 - The Veterans Affairs Medical Scribe Pilot Act of 2017, would require the VA to carry out a two-year pilot program to expand the use of unlicensed employees who enter health information into electronic records or charts at the direction of a physician. For more information about legislation related to veterans, visit veterans.house.gov.
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Members of the Congressional Coal Caucus, including Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05), sent a letter today to U.S. Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta questioning why there remains such a large contingent of mine inspectors within the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), despite the large number of mine closures and lay-offs in the coal industry over the last five years. "As you know, due in-large part to the Obama Administration's War on Coal, we have seen the number of operating coal mines in America decline by 35 percent and our number of coal miners drop by more than 43 percent over the last five years," stated Congressional Coal Caucus members in the letter. "And yet, in that same timeframe, the number of MSHA coal inspectors has remained relatively steady, with only 6 percent fewer inspectors. As a result, the number of MSHA coal inspectors substantially exceeds the number necesssary to conduct the number of inspections required by the Mine Safety Act." Comparable language was included by the House Appropriations Committee in the fiscal year 2018 (FY18) Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill, which passed earlier this week. The Committee also reduced MSHA's FY18 budget for Coal Enforcement Inspectors by $11 million, reiterating the need for MSHA to redistribute resources and activities to areas where mine production is currently occurring. "Over the last eight years, we've lost nearly 12,000 coal mining jobs in Eastern Kentucky alone, yet the number of mine inspectors and daily inspections remains steady. The waste is incomprehensible," said Rogers, who is a member of the Congressional Coal Caucus and Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "It's time for MSHA to align its workforce with meaningful activities, rather than continued unnecessary disruptions at coal mines that have surpassed safety standards." Mine safety personnel are required to accompany MSHA inspectors for all daily inspections. Click here to read the Congressional Coal Caucus' letter.
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2018 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill on a voice vote. The legislation funds the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development, and other international activities. The bill will target funding to U.S. foreign policy priorities, including critical diplomatic and security missions to increase stability and security. It also contains funding to bolster U.S. allies and key partners in strategic and challenging areas of the world, and provides critical humanitarian aid. In addition, the legislation contains strong oversight measures and reductions to nonessential or lower-priority international programs to protect and save taxpayer dollars. In total, the bill provides $47.4 billion in both regular discretionary and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. This total is $10 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, when counting additional funds provided in the Security Assistance Appropriations Act of 2017. Within this amount, OCO funding totals $12 billion, which supports operations and assistance in areas of conflict, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. “In the wake of ever-growing international threats and challenges – such as North Korea’s recent missile test – it is more important than ever for the U.S. to invest in robust diplomatic and global efforts to ensure stability around the world and the security of our nation and our allies,” Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “This bill will target funding to where it’s needed the most, ensure U.S. dollars are being put to good use to expand democracy and peace, and provide critical humanitarian assistance in war-torn, disaster-affected, and impoverished areas or the world.” State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairman Hal Rogers said: “The United States maintains her global leadership position through iron-clad diplomatic partnerships, a strong national defense, and unwavering efforts to fight terrorism and transnational crime. Our ability to continue investments in diplomacy and development, alongside our military, makes our nation stronger and safer,” said Chairman Rogers. “This bill provides robust funding to support our allies and partners in the fight against terrorism and countering in Russian aggression, prioritizes resources needed to keep U.S. personnel safe, and strengthens oversight measures to provide accountability to the U.S. taxpayer.” The following amendments to the bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Rogers – The manager’s amendment makes technical and noncontroversial changes to the bill and report.The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Dent – The amendment would modify the quorum requirement for the Export-Import Bank Board through September 30, 2019. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Calvert –The amendment adds report language expressing disappointment with a recent UNESCO designation related to Israel. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was approved on a voice vote.For a summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394988 For the bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/23926.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap--stateforop-fy2018stateforeignoperationsappropriations.pdf
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House Appropriations Committee for approving the fiscal year 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill. The legislation provides $156 billion for medical research, public health, biodefense, education and training activies to boost job growth. The bill also includes language to protect the sanctity of life and boosts efforts to combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic. "Practically every family in your district and mine has been somehow impacted by this horrible problem. Now is the time for action and this subcommittee has the reins and is pulling the team," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "We lose almost one hundred people a day, from opioid overdoses; the CDC now calls it an epidemic. We’re now appropriating over $8 billion across the government, much of which comes through this bill, thankfully. In addition to increasing funds for the National Institute on Drug Abuse by nearly $17 million, we're also fulfilling the second half of our $1 billion commitment to the 21st Century Cures Act with a $20 million increase for CDC's Prescription Drug Overdose Program." During his remarks to the Committee, Rogers applauded the Kentucky Legislature for its recent action to limit prescription opioids to a three day supply, in an effort to remove excess prescription painkillers from the street. As Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers advocated for federal funding to support a number of programs that impact southern and eastern Kentucky, including diabetes prevention, black lung clinics, training and employment services, and educational programs, like TRIO and Gear Up. The bill now heads to the House floor for consideration. Bill Highlights Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) – The bill includes a total of $77.6 billion for HHS, a decrease of $542 million below last year’s enacted level and $14.5 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation targets funds to effective, proven programs that help improve the health, safety, and quality of life for Americans. National Institutes of Health (NIH) $35.2 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion above the FY17 enacted level and $8.6 billion above the President’s budget request. This includes several significant increases, including: $400 million for Alzheimer’s disease research; $76 million for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative; $80 million for the All of Us research initiative (formerly called the Precision Medicine Initiative); $17 million for the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA); and $8 million for regenerative medicine research. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) $7 billion, which is $198 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $1 billion above the President’s budget request. This includes $840.6 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. Within the CDC, the bill includes $1.45 billion for CDC’s Public Health Preparedness and Response programs – an increase of $45 million.The bill also continues the longstanding prohibition against using CDC funding to advocate or promote gun control through its research programs. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) $3.5 billion, which is $306 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $68 million above the President’s request for fiscal year 2018. The legislation continues to prohibit the use of federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles, but would allow communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and Hepatitis to access federal funds for other activities, including substance-abuse counseling and treatment referrals. SAMHSA funding includes: $1.86 billion for the Substance Abuse Block Grant – the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $3.4 million above the President’s budget request. $747 million to address opioid and heroin abuse, which is the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $44 million above the request. This amount includes $500 million for the state response grants authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act, along with funding for programs authorized in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. $78 million for Criminal Justice activities – equal to the fiscal year 2017 level and the request – including $60 million specifically for drug courts. Administration for Community Living (ACL) The bill funds ACL at $2.2 billion, which is $243 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $386 million above the fiscal year 2018 request. This amount includes $227 million for the Meals on Wheels program. State Offices of Rural HealthThis account within the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) receives $10 million, equal to the FY17 Omnibus level. Department of Labor (DoL) – The bill provides a total of $10.8 billion in discretionary funding for DoL, which is $1.3 billion below the FY17 enacted level. The bill provides robust funding for job training programs and sufficient funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions, while reducing lower-priority and underperforming programs. Employment Training Administration (ETA) $8.5 billion, which is $1.5 billion below the fiscal year 2017 level, but $848 million more than the President's request. This total includes $2.6 billion for job training grants, $84.5 million for YouthBuild, and $790 million in mandatory appropriations for Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances. Training and Employment Services $3.042 billion, which is $800 million more than requested in the President’s budget. This funding provides support for job training and employment service grants which are critical to ensure people are able to enter the workforce job-ready. Federal Work Study Program$989 million, which is nearly $500 million more than what was included in the President’s budget request. This program, which provides part-time jobs for undergraduate and graduate students with financial need, allows them to earn money while going to school and thus reduce their student debt liability. Job Corps$1.688 billion, which is a decrease of $16 million from fiscal year 2017 level, but $239 million more than requested in the President’s budget. This funding will enable the Job Corps important mission to help young people improve the quality and satisfaction of their lives through vocational and educational training. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) $359 million, which is $14 million less than in fiscal year 2017. This includes Congressman Rogers’ requested $11 million reduction for the overly burdensome MSHA Coal Enforcement inspectors. The bill also reiterates support to bring MSHA enforcement into proportion with recent worker dislocations and mine closures, by redistributing resources and activities to the areas where mine production is currently occurring. The bill also includes $10.5 million for State assistance training grants and provides the authority to use this funding for the purchase and maintenance of equipment required by the Obama Administration’s Dust Rule. Reducing Harmful Red Tape The legislation includes several provisions designed to help U.S. businesses create jobs and grow the economy by reducing or eliminating overly burdensome government regulations, including: A new provision prohibiting enforcement of the “Fiduciary Rule,” which places significant new regulatory burdens on retirement investment advisers; A continuation of provisions providing flexibility in the H-2B program, ensuring that employers that comply with program requirements have access to the temporary, seasonal workers their businesses depend on; and The continuation of a provision exempting insurance claims adjusters from overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act in areas that have been hit by a major disaster. Department of Education – The bill funds the Department of Education at $66 billion, which is $2.4 billion below the FY17 enacted level. The bill eliminates several duplicative or ineffective education programs, and makes reductions to several other lower-priority programs. TRIO The bill includes $1 billion for TRIO programs, which is $60 million above the enacted FY17 level and $202 million above the President’s budget request. These programs are designed to identify and provide services for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds. Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (Gear Up)The bill includes $350 million for Gear Up, which is $130 million above the President’s budget request. This program seeks to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education—a critical program for southern and eastern Kentucky. 21 st Century Learning Centers The bill provides $1 billion for these centers, which creates community learning centers that provide academic enrichment opportunities during non-school hours for children, particularly students who attend high-poverty and low-performing schools. Career, Technical, and Adult EducationThe bill includes $1.72 billion, which is level with fiscal year 2017 and $244 million more than the President’s budget request. This account includes vocational education programs authorized by the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 and the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA). Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education ProgramThe bill provides $12 million, which is level with the enacted FY17 level. This program carries out a coordinated program of evidence-based research, demonstration projects, innovative strategies, and similar activities designed to build and enhance the ability of elementary schools and secondary schools nationwide to identify gifted and talented students meet their special educational needs. Special Education $12.2 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of $200 million over fiscal year 2017. These grants will maintain the federal share of vital special education funding to states. Pell Grants$22.4 billion, which is level with the fiscal year 17 level. These grants provide need-based grants to low-income undergraduate and certain graduate students to promote access to postsecondary education. Impact Aid$1.3 billion, an increase of $5 million from fiscal year 2017. This program provides funds to states and school districts which have a significant federal presence, making up for the lost revenue from local taxes. Charter Schools$370 million, an increase of $28 million from fiscal year 2017. The Charter Schools Program provides money to create new high-quality public charter schools, as well as to disseminate information about ones with a proven track record. Other Related Agencies Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB)The bill provides an advance appropriation of $445 million for CPB for FY2020, which is the same level of advance funding provided in fiscal year 2017. Social Security Administration (SSA)$12.5 billion, level with fiscal year 2017. This funding is for the SSA’s operations, and is distinct from Social Security payments. Cuts and Terminations – The legislation cuts or terminates several lower-priority, unproven, or unnecessary programs, including: A cut of $150 million in refugee programs, consistent with budget request; A cut of $21 million for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA); A cut of $10 million for the Wage and Hour Division; and A cut of $14 million for MSHA. The following amendments to the FY 2018 LHHS Appropriations bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Cole – The amendment makes technical and non-controversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Harris – The amendment adds a provision prohibiting NLRB from enforcing the interpretation regarding “micro unions”/specialty healthcare. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Stewart – The amendment adds a provision prohibiting the Department of Labor from enforcing the minimum wage rule on recreational operators on Federal lands. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was adopted on a vote of 28-22. For a summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394995 For the bill report, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/23920.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit:http://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP07/20170713/106250/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2018-LaborHHS-LaborHHSFY2018.pdf
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House Appropriations Committee for approving the fiscal year 2018 federal funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The legislation provides $44.3 billion for DHS, which includes $1.6 billion to construct a southern border barrier and other security improvements, meeting the full White House request. The bill targets critical programs such as aviation security, border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, natural disaster response, and efforts to stop the smuggling of drugs and people into the U.S. "This bill is a complicated and vital piece of the nation's defense," said Congressman Rogers, who served as the very first chairman of the subcommittee when it was created 15 years ago. "I wholeheartedly support securing our borders; however, we must do so using these tax dollars wisely, leveraging the right mix of physical security, personnel and technology. Together, we will continue supporting the Department of Homeland Security and its vision of ensuring a homeland that is safe, secure and resilient against terrorism and other hazards." As Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers advocated for continued provisions to focus Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Continuing Training Grant funding on training for rural communities, as well as $690 million for the DHS Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, for which dozens of volunteer fire departments across the country and in southern and eastern Kentucky compete for funding. The bill now heads to the House floor for consideration. Bill Highlights Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – The bill contains $13.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for CBP – an increase of $1.6 billion above the FY 2017 enacted level. These resources ensure our borders are protected by putting boots on the ground, improving infrastructure and technology, and helping to stem the flow of illegal goods both into and out of the country. Within this total, the legislation includes: $1.6 billion for physical barrier construction along the southern border – including bollards and levee improvements – meeting the full White House request; $100 million to hire 500 new Border Patrol agents; $131 million for new border technology; $106 million for new aircraft and sensors; and $109 million for new, non-intrusive inspection equipment. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) – The bill provides $7 billion for ICE –$619.7 million above the FY 2017 enacted level. Within this total, the legislation includes: $185.6 million to hire 1,000 additional law enforcement officers and 606 support staff; $2 billion – an increase of $30 million above the requested level – for domestic and international investigations programs, including efforts to combat human trafficking, child exploitation, cybercrime, visa screening, and drug smuggling; $4.4 billion for detention and removal programs, including: 44,000 detention beds, an increase 4,676 beds over FY 2017; 129 Fugitive Operations teams; and Criminal Alien Program operations, including the addition of 26 new communities to the 287(g) program, which partners with local law enforcement to process, arrest, and book illegal immigrants into state or local detention facilities. Coast Guard – The bill contains $10.5 billion for the U.S. Coast Guard – an increase of $31.7 million above the FY 2017 enacted level. The bill provides for a 2.1 percent military pay increase, and targets resources to improve readiness. Specifically, the bill includes: $7.2 billion for operations and training, military personnel costs, aviation and cutter hours, and maintenance of assets required to sustain readiness and response capabilities; and $1.3 billion – $95 million above the request – for modernization and recapitalization of vessels, aircraft, and facilities. This includes funding for the Polar Icebreaking Vessel program, the acquisition of an Offshore Patrol Cutter, an HC130-J aircraft, four Fast Response Cutters, and facility improvements at multiple locations throughout the United States. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) – The bill includes $7.2 billion for TSA – a decrease of $159.8 million below the FY 2017 enacted level. This includes full funding ($3.2 billion) for Transportation Security Officers, privatized screening operations, and passenger and baggage screening equipment, in order to speed processing and wait times for travelers and cargo. This also includes $151.8 million to hire, train, and deploy 1,047 canine teams to further expedite processing time. Cybersecurity and Protection of Communications – To combat increasingly dangerous and numerous cyber-attacks, the bill includes a total of $1.8 billion for the National Protection and Programs Directorate to enhance critical infrastructure and prevent hacking. Within this amount, $1.37 billion is provided to help secure civilian (.gov) networks, detect and prevent cyber-attacks and foreign espionage, and enhance and modernize emergency communications. Funds are also included to enhance emergency communications capabilities and to continue the modernization of the Biometric Identification System. Secret Service – The bill provides $2 billion for the U.S. Secret Service – a decrease of $101 million below the FY 2017 enacted level due to the completion of the 2016 campaign cycle. This funding level includes investments in investigations and cybersecurity, and continued funding for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) – To respond to both natural and man-made disasters, the bill funds FEMA’s disaster relief account (DRF) at $7.3 billion. The legislation also includes $2.7 billion for FEMA grant programs. This includes: $467 million for the State Homeland Security Grant Program; $630 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative, including an increase of $25 million for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program; $690 million for firefighter assistance grants; and $350 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants. Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) – The legislation does not fund most CIS activities, as these are funded outside the appropriations process through the collection of fees However, the bill does contain $131 million for E-Verify, which is funded within CIS and helps companies ensure their employees may legally work in the United States. To watch the full House Appropriations Committee markup, visit appropriations.house.gov. The following amendments to the bill were approved by the full committee today:Rep. Carter – The amendment made technical and other noncontroversial changes and additions to the report.The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Aderholt – The amendment adds bill language prohibiting use of ICE funding to pay for an abortion or require anyone to perform or facilitate an abortion. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 29-21. Rep. Newhouse – The amendment adds bill language changing the H-2-A seasonal agriculture worker program from seasonal to year round. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler – The amendment adds bill language that would grant lawful permanent resident status in the U.S. to Charlie Gard and his family for the purposes of medical treatment. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Wasserman-Schultz – The amendment adds bill language changing the statute of limitations on the recovery of FEMA Public Assistance Grants. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.The bill was approved on a vote of 30-22.For a summary, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394983 For the bill report, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/23916.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit:http://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP15/20170712/106241/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2018-HSecurity-FY2018HomelandSecurityAppropriationsBill-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, the House Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2018 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development funding bill on a vote of 31-20. The legislation includes funding for the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other related agencies. In total, the bill reflects an allocation of $56.5 billion in discretionary spending – $1.1 billion below fiscal year 2017 and $8.6 billion above the request. This funding is targeted to essential investments in transportation infrastructure investments, as well as fundamental community development and housing programs. “Now more than ever, it is critical to our economy and to our quality of life to have safe and well-functioning transportation infrastructure. This bill makes investments in essential highway, air, rail, and maritime programs that will keep our people and our goods moving efficiently,” Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “In addition, it includes responsible funding to ensure communities across the nation have access to necessary community development funds, and to provide housing to those who need it the most – including the poor, elderly, and disabled.” “Funding for transportation projects is a proven way to create jobs while creating value for the taxpayer, and this legislation will enhance our infrastructure with an emphasis on safety,” said Congressman Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. “I'm also proud to support funding for essential housing programs that are important to our region in Southern and Eastern Kentucky.” The following amendments to the bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Diaz-Balart – The manager’s amendment makes technical and noncontroversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was approved by the Committee on a vote of 31-20. For a summary of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394975 For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap-fy2018-transhud-transportationhoushingandurbandevelopment.pdf For the text of the report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/23928.pdf
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- This week, the House Appropriations Committee is working to pass the final five remaining appropriations bills to fund federal government operations in fiscal year 2018. The Committee passed two of those bills today, including the Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) voted for the legislation, which provides $31.4 billion for Interior and Environment related agencies, including $75 million to continue the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program to revitalize coal communities. The funds are targeted to important investments in the nation’s natural resources, including $3.4 billion for the Department of the Interior and U.S. Forest Service to prevent and combat devastating wildfires. The legislation also contains several policy provisions to rein in harmful and unnecessary regulations at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other agencies. "I'm very pleased that this bill will continue the successful AML Pilot Program that is actively turning old abandoned mine land into productive areas for job creation, tourism and other economic development projects in our struggling coal-producing states," said Congressman Rogers, who first championed the AML Pilot Program in 2016. "This bill also cuts more waste in the EPA and focuses funding on providing clean water across the country." The bill now heads to the House floor for consideration. Bill Highlights: Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.4 billion – fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. This is $334 million below the FY 2017 level. Most of this reduction is the result of the transfer of the Forest Service’s hazardous fuels reduction program to its National Forest System, as requested by the Administration. The legislation also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $5 million above the FY 2017 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $465 million for the “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT) program. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.5 billion, a reduction of $528 million below the FY 2017 enacted level and $1.9 billion above the Administration’s request. The legislation supports the President’s proposal to reshape the agency’s workforce by providing resources requested to offer buyouts and voluntary separation agreements to employees. This bill also reflects the Administration’s goal to rein in outdated, unnecessary and potentially harmful regulations at the EPA. For example, it includes language authorizing the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule. EPA Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds – The bill includes a total of $2 billion for these funds, including $1.1 billion for the Drinking Water fund and $863 million for the Clean Water fund. EPA Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Funds – The bill includes $30 million, equal to the FY 2017 enacted level and $10 million more than the President’s request. Office of Surface Mining (OSM) – The OSM is funded at $213 million in the bill – $40 million below the FY 2017 level. This includes $75 million to continue a pilot program to accelerate the reclamation of abandoned mine lands, which will help boost community redevelopment and economic growth. The legislation also continues state regulatory grants at $68.6 million. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) –The bill contains $1.2 billion for the BLM, a decrease of $46 million below the FY 2017 enacted level, including a $20 million decrease for federal land acquisition. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, a decrease of $64 million below the FY 2017 level. Much of the reduction is in land acquisition activities. Within the total, the bill retains $55 million targeted to park operations and maintenance to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog.U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.2 billion for the Forest Service. Approximately half of this funding – $2.5 billion – is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety.U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) – The FWS is funded at $1.5 billion in the bill, a $38 million decrease below the FY 2017 enacted level. Core responsibilities and grant programs are level funded. The legislation prioritizes funding to reduce the endangered species delisting backlog and refuge maintenance backlog, to fight invasive species, to prevent illegal wildlife trafficking, and to prevent the closure of fish hatcheries. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1 billion for the USGS, $46 million below the FY 2017 enacted level. Funding is targeted to programs dealing with natural hazards, streamgages, the groundwater monitoring network, and mapping activities. The bill includes $10.2 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters, and provides the $8.3 million increase necessary for support of “Landsat 9” – a satellite program that provides land use measurements that are important to local communities for agriculture, forestry, energy and water resource decisions. Smithsonian Institution – The Smithsonian Institution is funded at $885 million in the bill, $22 million above the FY 2017 enacted level. This level is sufficient to allow all current operations and programs to continue. National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities – The bill includes $145 million for each of the endowments, $5 million below the FY 2017 level for each endowment. Eisenhower Memorial Commission – The bill provides $16.6 million for the Eisenhower Memorial Commission ($1.6 million for salaries and expenses and $15 million for construction). Bill language extends the authority to build on the current site.Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) – The bill provides $275 million for LWCF programs – $125 million below the current level but $211 million above the President’s request. State and local recreation and battlefield preservation programs are prioritized, while strategic investments in federal land acquisition are recommended. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB) – The CSB is funded at $11 million, equal to the FY 2017 level. The Administration proposed to terminate this program. The following amendments to the bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Calvert – The Manager’s amendment makes technical and noncontroversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Harris -- The amendment limits funds for activities related to wind turbines less than 24 nautical miles from the State of Maryland shoreline. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Aderholt -- The amendment changes bill language requiring that all iron and steel used in water infrastructure projects be sourced within the United States. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Stewart – The amendment makes changes to bill language regarding the management of wild horses and burros. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was approved on a vote of 30-21. For a summary of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394981 For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/fy18_interior_xml.pdf For the bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/23918.pdf
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The Faith & Politics Institute (FPI) will host an evening discussion with acclaimed journalist and author, Sam Quinones, about America's opioid epidemic on July 18th at the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center. United States Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IND) will offer remarks and introduce Mr. Quinones. United States Representative Hal Rogers (R-KY) will participate in the panel discussion with Quinones led by Regina LaBelle, who served as chief of staff and policy director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy in the Obama Administration. One of 2015's most lauded books, Dreamland: The True Tale of America's Opiate Epidemic, explores how addiction has devastated hundreds of small towns, rural communities, and suburbs across America. Ultimately a story of hope, Dreamland recounts the experience of people living in Portsmouth, Ohio, a town ravaged by addiction, that is turning away from dependency and toward self-reliance and recovery. The Centers for Disease Control have reported that over 2 million Americans are addicted to opioid prescriptions and over 180,000 have died due to overdose since 2000. In 2015 alone, over 33,000 people were killed by opioids. Estimates for 2016 and 2017 indicate opioid deaths could rise higher. What: Acclaimed journalist and author, Sam Quinones, discusses his book Dreamland: The True Tale of America's Opiate Epidemic. Who: Acclaimed Journalist and Author, Sam Quinones, United States Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IND), United States Representative Hal Rogers (R-KY), former Chief of Staff of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, Regina LaBelle, and FPI President and CEO Joan Mooney. When: Tuesday, July 18, 2017; 7:00 P.M. Sam Quinones Presentation & Audience Q/A Where: Congressional Meeting Room – South - CVC-217, U.S. Capitol Visitors Center Media seeking to cover the event or conduct interviews should RSVP to josh.taylor@faithandpolitics.org or call 202-744-6625. For event questions, please call 202-546-1299. The event will be streamed live on FPI’s Facebook page:https://www.facebook.com/FaithNPolitics/. Members of the public who wish to attend should RSVP at http://bit.ly/2uagi0x. The Faith & Politics Institute is celebrating 25 years of bringing leaders together for the good of our nation through congressional pilgrimages, forums and dialogues that inspire leaders in public service across lines of ideology, race, and faith. Visit the Faith & Politics Institute at www.faithandpolitics.org. and follow on Facebook and Twitter.
07.14.2017	U.S. House of Representatives Passes National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the fiscal year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The $688.3 billion bill respresents another promise kept by House Republicans to rebuild the United States military and support our troops. "As promised to the American people, we are rebuilding and modernizing our U.S. Armed Forces as an international powerhouse, by better equipping our troops, strengthening counter terrorism efforts and reestablishing confidence with our allied forces," said Congressman Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "At a time when our enemies continue to advance around the globe, the U.S. must remain at the forefront of military readiness and advance technology to strengthen national defense at home and abroad." The bill provides $64.6 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. It authorizes a 2.4% pay raise for U.S. troops, the largest pay increase for service members this decade. It also blocks the misguided attempt to close military medical facilities upon which our deployed troops and their families rely. The NDAA also prohibits transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States, and from transferring the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay back to Cuba. Bill Highlights The NDAA builds on last year's efforts to increase the size of the military, including increasing the authorized troop levels for the Army by 10,000, the Army National Guard by 4,000 and the Army Reserve by 3,000; Provides $870 million for the Department of Defense's Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug program, which funds the National Guard's Counter-Drug Program; Prohibits funds from being used for a new Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round; Includes an increase in funding for the European Deterrence Initiative, allowing for more consistent planning for the Department of Defense and sending a strong message to partners and allies about the U.S. commitment to an enduring presence in Europe; Provides Israel $705 million for co-production and co-development of Israeli missile defense systems; and Fully funds $8 billion for cyber operations, an increase of $1.7 billion, and supports the Department's defensive and offensive cyberspace capabilities. The House passed the bill by a vote of 341 to 81 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to learn more about the NDAA.
07.14.2017	Legislation will slash the IRS, fund U.S. courts, invest in programs to boost economic opportunity, and scale back harmful regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, the House Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2018 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. It is the seventh of 12 appropriations bills approved by the commitee. The bill provides annual funding for the Treasury Department, the Judiciary, the Small Business Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other related agencies. The bill totals $20.231 billion – $1.284 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $2.483 billion below the President’s budget request. The legislation targets resources to programs that will help boost economic growth and opportunity, protect consumers and investors, promote an efficient federal court system, and stop financial crime. "This bill supports financial growth and stability in our country, and cuts waste in the IRS. It also promotes broadband expansion in rural communities," said Congressman Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "I am pleased that the legislation provides holistic funding to combat the drug abuse epidemic by bolstering efforts to crack down on illegal drug trafficking, while also providing assistance for community-based substance abuse education and recovery programs." Congressman Rogers advocated for $2 million to continue Drug Court Training, rather than eliminate it as proposed by the Administration. He also supported provisions for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA), Drug Free Communities Grants, Small Business Administration (SBA) Microloans and Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI). Rogers also supported language in the bill to encourage the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to maximize the use of Universal Service Funds (USF) for broadband expansion in rural and economically disadvantaged areas. Funding for the IRS is cut by $149 million from the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Under the legislation, it will also be subject to increased oversight and transparency to ensure the rights and the privacy of taxpayers are upheld, and to ensure that the agency is using its funds appropriately. Several other policy provisions aimed at reducing regulatory red tape and scaling back harmful financial requirements are also included. “Our financial system thrives on stability, and this bill provides the funding necessary for federal regulators to do their jobs in a timely and appropriate manner, while stopping burdensome regulations before they can damage our economy irreparably,” House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “It also makes key investments in our courts to ensure efficiency and security, and provides funding to important programs – like small business lending – that help our economy grow and prosper.” The bill now moves on to the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. The following amendments to the bill were adopted by the full committee: Rep. Graves – The manager’s amendment makes technical and noncontroversial changes to the bill and report, and adds certain authorization language. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Moolenaar – The amendment adds language to define the term “pyramid promotion scheme” and limits funds for enforcement actions outside the definition. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Harris – The amendment prohibits funds for doctor-assisted suicide in the District of Columbia, and repeals the DC Death with Dignity Act. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 28-24. Rep. Lowey – The amendment increases the Office of Government Ethics by $349,000 – equal to the Administration’s request. These funds are offset by a reduction in the Department of Treasury department-wide systems and capital investments program. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Young – The amendment Requires GSA to post National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) findings online for which the GSA Administrator has solicited public comment. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Aguilar – The amendment adds language allowing those individuals authorized to be employed under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to be eligible for employment by the federal government. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was approved on a vote of 31-20. For a summary of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394953 For the text of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap-fy2018-fservices-financialservicesandgeneralgovernment.pdf For the bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/fsgg.report.07.13.17.pdf
07.13.2017	Appropriations Committee rejects the Trump Administration's proposal to rescind funding for the Letcher County Prison WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House Appropriations Committee for approving the fiscal year 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill. The bill funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. The legislation contains $56 billion in total discretionary funding, a decrease of $542 million below fiscal year 2017 and $4 billion above the President’s request for these programs. The bill targets funding increases for national security – including cybercrime, counter-terrorism and espionage. The bill also provides increases for federal law enforcement to crack down on illegal immigration, and combat violent crime, gangs and opioid trafficking. Funds are included to help boost trade enforcement, continue investments in space exploration programs, and advance groundbreaking science and technologies essential for innovation, productivity, and economic growth. In order to make these investments, lower-priority programs are reduced or eliminated. The committee also rejected the Trump Administration's proposal to rescind funding previously secured in fiscal year 2016 for construction of a federal prison in Letcher County. "This bill funds the first comprehensive and holistic attack on deadly opioid overdoses. It has robust funding for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), maintains funding for drug courts and residential substance treatment programs, increases funding for the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, methamphetamine lab cleanups and youth mentoring programs. This is a wholesale attack on this national epidemic identified by the CDC," said Chairman Rogers in his opening statement. "I'm also pleased that funding remains intact for construction of the federal prison in Letcher County, and the project will continue as scheduled." In addition to comprehensive funding to combat the drug abuse epidemic, Chairman Rogers advocated for $30 million to continue economic development assistance for coal mining communities; $95 million for the Bureau of Prisons for construction, acquisition and maintenance of prison facilities; $300 million for Legal Services Corporation, a funding source that has recently assisted victims of the Eric C. Conn fiasco in Eastern Kentucky; and space science research, which will help continue competitive programs at the University of Kentucky and Morehead State University. Bill Highlights: Drug-Related Programs Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program – $14 million ($2 million above the Administration's proposal); Drug Court Program - $43 million; Department of Justice (DOJ) Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant (CARA Section 201) - $118 million; Drug Enforecment Agency (DEA) Diversion Control - $419.5 million ($30 million more than FY17); Byrne JAG Program - $500 million ($104 million more than FY17 and $170 million more than the Administration's proposal); DEA Methamphetamine Lab Cleanups - $11 million; Residential Substance Abuse Treatment - $12 million; and Youth Mentoring Grants - $75 million, ($17 million above the Administration's proposal). Department of Justice (DOJ) – The bill funds DOJ at $29 billion, an increase of $349 million from FY17. FBI - $8.8 billion for FBI operations ($48 million above FY17) DEA - $2.6 billion ($98 million above FY17) ATF - $1.3 billion ($35 million above FY17) Executive Office for Immigration Review - $505 million ($64.5 million above FY17) U.S. Marshals Service (USMS) – The bill funds USMS at $2.8 billion, an increase of $88 million from FY17 Within this amount, funds are increased for the highest-priority grant programs, including $527 million for the Violence Against Women account (an increase of $104 million), $500 million for Byrne JAG, and $220 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (an increase of $10 million). Anti-Opioid Abuse – The bill includes $103 million for programs to help stem abuse; the full amount authorized by the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016. NASA – The bill funds NASA at $19.9 billion, an increase of $219 million from FY17. National Science Foundation (NSF) - $7.3 billion, a decrease of $133 million from FY17. Department of Commerce – The bill funds the Commerce Department at $8.3 billion, a reduction of $892 million from FY17. EDA - $176 million, a decrease of $100 million from FY17; National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) - $865 million, a decrease of $87, million from FY17; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - $4.97 billion, a decrease of $710 million. Funding is targeted to priorities such as the National Weather Service, fisheries management, weather research, and ocean research. Click here to watch Chairman Rogers' remarks and the committee markup for the bill. The bill was approved by the Committee on a vote of 31-21. For a bill summary, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394951 For the text of the bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap-fy2018-cjs-commercejusticescience.pdf For the bill report, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/cjs.report.07.13.17.pdf
07.12.2017	Bill will target funding to critical diplomatic and security missions, humanitarian crisis response WASHINGTON, DC -- The House Appropriations Committee today released the fiscal year 2018 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation funds the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development, and other international activities.The bill will target funding to U.S. foreign policy priorities, including critical diplomatic and security missions to increase stability and security. It also contains funding to bolster U.S. allies and key partners in strategic and challenging areas of the world, and provides critical humanitarian aid. In addition, the legislation contains strong oversight measures and reductions to nonessential or lower-priority international programs to protect and save taxpayer dollars. In total, the bill provides $47.4 billion in both regular discretionary and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. This total is $10 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, when counting additional funds provided in the Security Assistance Appropriations Act of 2017. Within this amount, OCO funding totals $12 billion, which supports operations and assistance in areas of conflict, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. “In the wake of ever-growing international threats and challenges – such as North Korea’s recent missile test – it is more important than ever for the U.S. to invest in robust diplomatic and global efforts to ensure stability around the world and the security of our nation and our allies,” Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “This bill will target funding to where it’s needed the most, ensure U.S. dollars are being put to good use to expand democracy and peace, and provide critical humanitarian assistance in war-torn, disaster-affected, and impoverished areas or the world.”State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairman Hal Rogers said:“The United States maintains her global leadership position through iron-clad diplomatic partnerships, a strong national defense, and unwavering efforts to fight terrorism and transnational crime. Our ability to continue investments in diplomacy and development, alongside our military, makes our nation stronger and safer,” said Chairman Rogers. “This bill provides robust funding to support our allies and partners in the fight against terrorism and countering in Russian aggression, prioritizes resources needed to keep U.S. personnel safe, and strengthens oversight measures to provide accountability to the U.S. taxpayer.”Bill Highlights:State Department Operations and Related Agencies – The bill contains a total of $15.4 billion in base and OCO funding for the operational costs of the State Department and related agencies, as well as diplomacy efforts to enhance peace and stability around the globe. This is a decrease of $2.6 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, but is sufficient to maintain necessary operations.Within this amount, the legislation provides $6.1 billion for embassy security, the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, excluding one-time appropriations of $1.5 billion provided in the Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017. These funds will address needs at more than 275 diplomatic facilities overseas, including facility upgrades and security personnel as recommended in the Benghazi Accountability Review Board report.To meet these and other needs, the bill reduces funding for assessed payments to the United Nations (UN) and international organizations by $600 million compared to the fiscal year 2017 enacted level.International Security Assistance – The bill provides a total of $8.8 billion in base and OCO funding for international security assistance. This is $624 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level.Funds are included for international narcotics control and law enforcement activities, antiterrorism programs, nonproliferation programs, peacekeeping operations, and other critical international security efforts. Antiterrorism programs that assist in the fight to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other terrorist groups are funded at $358 million. The bill also provides funding to fight terrorist financing networks and bolster border and airport security.In addition, the legislation provides security assistance to key allies and partners. The bill fully funds the $3.1 billion commitment to Israel, marking the last year of the current 10-year memorandum of understanding between the United States and Israel totaling $30 billion. The bill continues strong support for Foreign Military Financing programs for Ukraine, Georgia, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia – at or above current levels. The bill maintains robust funding for counter-narcotics and law enforcement efforts in Colombia, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. The legislation also fully funds the $58 million request to address international organized crime and increases funding to combat cybercrime.United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Operations – The bill contains $1.5 billion for USAID and the USAID Office of Inspector General – a decrease of $115 million from the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The legislation also includes oversight measures to ensure the proper management of development programs and the appropriate use of U.S. funds.Bilateral Economic Assistance – The legislation contains a total of $22.7 billion in base and OCO funding for bilateral economic assistance to foreign countries – a decrease of $4.2 billion from the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This funding is targeted to activities to provide stability in volatile regions and enhance U.S. presence in critical and strategic areas. Within this amount, programs that support development assistance, global health, and humanitarian assistance are prioritized, as well as economic support for key partners like Jordan. In addition, the bill includes $6 billion to fight HIV/AIDS around the globe.Multilateral Assistance – The legislation provides $888 million for assistance to foreign countries through international organizations and banks, a cut of $1.2 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level.The bill does not include funding for several controversial or unnecessary programs, including: The Green Climate Fund, International debt relief, The UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and The UN Population Fund (UNFPA). Increased Oversight, Savings, and Policy Provisions – The bill continues robust requirements to increase program oversight, improve management, and tighten the reins on taxpayer dollars. Some of these provisions include: Syria – The bill allows funding to be used for non-lethal aid. Oversight and vetting of recipients is required, and Congress must be notified before any funds are made available. Egypt – The bill provides economic and security assistance if Egypt sustains its strategic partnership with the United States and adheres to the peace treaty with Israel. Afghanistan – The recommendation includes conditions on assistance for transparency, accountability, and other requirements, including prohibiting funds for new major infrastructure projects. Palestinian Authority –The bill maintains restrictions on the Palestinian Authority (PA), including a requirement to reduce funds to the Palestinians by an amount equivalent to that expended by the PA as payments to prisoners that committed acts of terrorism, prohibiting funding if there is a Palestinian government formed through an agreement with Hamas or if the Palestinians are not acting to counter incitement. The bill also includes a provision restricting Palestinians’ representation in the U.S. if they initiate or actively support an International Criminal Court investigation against Israel. Countering Russian Influence and Aggression – The bill maintains the fiscal year 2017 level for Ukraine and Georgia to respond to instability caused by Russian aggression and provides $105,000,000 for the Countering Russian Influence Fund. Records management – To address problems with record-keeping, transparency, and responsiveness at the State Department and USAID, the bill: Prohibits funds to use private email accounts or servers; and Maintains the fiscal year 2017 level for Freedom of Information Act activities to ensure requests receive responses in a timely manner Guantanamo Bay – The bill requires a notification to Congress if the State Department commits to providing assistance to foreign governments that accept Guantanamo detainees. Assistance to Foreign Governments and Local Organizations – The bill requires certain conditions to be met before the Administration can give funds directly to foreign governments and local organizations. Multi-Year Funding Commitments – The legislation includes congressional oversight requirements before the Administration can make multi-year funding commitments to foreign countries or international organizations. UN Reform – The bill provides no funding for the Human Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines that it is in the national security interest and the Council stops its anti-Israel agenda and increases transparency in the elections of its members. The bill also prohibits funds for UN organizations headed by countries that support terrorism, and withholds a portion of funds for the UN and international organizations until transparency and accountability measures are met. No funds are provided for the UN capital master plan in New York. North Africa Strategy Requirement –The bill includes a new provision requiring the Secretary of State to submit a strategy for United States engagement in North Africa, including information on how diplomatic engagement and assistance will be prioritized for the region. Arms Trade Treaty – The legislation prohibits funding to implement the UN Arms Trade Treaty. Coal – The bill overrides the anti-coal regulations of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, Export-Import Bank, and World Bank, and allows the financing of coal-fired and other power generation projects by U.S. companies overseas. This provision will bolster U.S. job creation and ensure quality, cost-effective technology for developing and other nations. Protecting Life – The bill supports important policy provisions to ensure the respect for life around the globe. For example, the bill: Expands the Mexico City Policy, a policy prohibiting U.S. assistance to foreign nongovernmental organizations that promote or perform abortions, to all global health programs; Prohibits funding for UNFPA, and caps family planning and reproductive health programs at $461 million, the fiscal year 2008 funding level; and Maintains longstanding pro-life riders, including the “Tiahrt Amendment,” which ensures family planning programs are voluntary; the “Helms Amendment,” which bans foreign aid from being spent on abortions; and the “Kemp-Kasten Amendment,” which prohibits funds to organizations the President determines to support coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization.
07.12.2017	Appropriations Committee Approves Fiscal Year 2018 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2018 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill on a voice vote. The legislation provides annual funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), various programs under the Department of Energy (DOE), and other related agencies. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) advocated for provisions to fund the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), coal research and development through the National Energy Technology Labs, and to prevent USACE from carrying out a water-supply reallocation study at Lake Cumberland in Kentucky. "This bill responsibly funds our national security interests and builds upon essential infrasture needs across the country. Specifically, this bill protects the ARC from proposed elimination and ensures critical programs will continue in our hardest hit Appalachian coal communities," said Congressman Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "The bill also prohibits the Corps of Engineers from carrying out its ongoing effort to tax small rural communities that access water in Lake Cumberland in southern Kentucky. I urge my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to support this legislation." The bill totals $37.56 billion – $209 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $3.65 billion above the President’s budget request. Funding is targeted toward national security efforts – including nuclear weapons activities – and energy and water infrastructure investments. “National security is our number-one priority, and this bill will fund essential programs that maintain our nuclear deterrence posture in the face of growing global threats – including North Korea and other countries that are testing the tolerance of the international community,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “Further, this legislation will make important investments in our energy development and water infrastructure to keep our economy growing and to continue the country’s lead in essential energy technology and innovation." The bill provides strong national security investments, including increases above fiscal year 2017 for nuclear weapons programs. The bill also protects funding for critical national and regional waterways – which handle commerce valued at more than $2 trillion annually – through the USACE, and programs that encourage energy independence and economic competitiveness. Nuclear Security – To address our national security needs and meet emerging threats from around the globe, the bill provides a total of $13.9 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, including Weapons Activities, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and Naval Reactors – a $976 million increase above the fiscal year 2017 level. This funding will uphold the nation’s nuclear deterrence posture, maintain the safety and readiness of our weapons stockpile, and allow the U.S. to meet any nuclear threat. This includes: • $10.24 billion for Weapons Activities – $921 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level – to maintain a strong nuclear deterrence posture; • $1.486 billion for Naval Nuclear Reactors – $66 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level; and • $1.83 billion for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation – $76.5 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This includes $340 million in funding to help fulfill the international commitment by the U.S. to construct the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility to dispose of surplus plutonium. Army Corps of Engineers – The Army Corps of Engineers is funded at $6.16 billion, an increase of $120 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $1.16 billion above the President’s budget request. The bill focuses funding on activities that will have an immediate impact on public safety, job creation, and economic growth, including those that help increase the functionality of our ports and waterways. For example, the bill provides: • $2.8 billion for navigation projects and studies, including $1.34 billion in funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and full use of estimated annual revenues from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, to help advance American competitiveness and export ability; and • $1.8 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities, an increase of $74 million above fiscal year 2017 and $424 million above the budget request. Environmental Cleanup – Included in the legislation is $6.4 billion for environmental management activities, $24.6 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This includes $5.4 billion for Defense Environmental Cleanup, the same as fiscal year 2017, to safely clean sites contaminated by previous nuclear weapons production. Energy Programs – Funding for energy programs within DOE is $9.6 billion – a decrease of $1.7 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $2.3 billion above the President's request. Within this total, the bill prioritizes early-stage research and development funding for the applied energy programs. Funding within the accounts is targeted to encourage U.S. economic competitiveness and help advance the nation’s goal of an “all-of-the-above” solution to energy independence. Research and development to advance coal, natural gas, oil, and other fossil energy technologies, which will help the country make greater use of our rich natural energy resources and help keep down energy costs, are funded at $635 million – a decrease of $33 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $355 million above the budget request. In addition, to promote innovation and growth in nuclear energy, research, development, and demonstration activities are funded at $969 million – $48 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $266 million above the request. Renewable energy programs, which have already received significant investments in recent years, are cut by $986 million compared to fiscal year 2017 and increased by $468 million compared to the President’s budget request. Science Research – The bill includes $5.4 billion for science research – the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This funding supports basic energy research, the development of high-performance computing systems, and research into the next generation of energy sources. These investments lay the groundwork for a more secure energy future, helping to reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and ensuring continued economic growth. Bureau of Reclamation – The legislation contains $1.24 billion – $79 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $132 million above the President’s request – for the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation to help manage, develop, and protect the water resources of Western states. The bill includes $83 million for the second year of funding for water storage, desalination, and water recycling and reuse projects authorized in the WIIN Act. Other policy items: The bill includes language authorizing the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule. The bill restricts the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. The bill includes language – as in previous years – allowing the possession of firearms on Corps of Engineers lands. The bill includes language prohibiting new nuclear nonproliferation projects in Russia without certain notifications from the Secretary of Energy. For a summary, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394941 For the text of the draft bill, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap-fy2018-energywater-energyandwater.pdf For the draft bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-115-hr-p2.pdf
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2018 Agriculture Appropriations Bill to fund important agricultural and food programs and services, including rural development, nutrition programs and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The bill totals $20 billion in discretionary funding, which is $876 million lower than the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $4.64 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation prioritizes this funding in programs for rural communities, farmers, ranchers, food and drug safety, and nutrition for those in need. In addition, the bill contains several policy provisions to rein in unnecessary and burdensome regulations that harm U.S. food producers and that impede growth in important U.S. industries. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee, applauded Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen and the committee for boosting funds to combat the national opioid abuse epidemic. The bill provides the FDA with $2.8 billion in discretionary funding, plus its revenue for user fees, bringing the total to $5.2 billion - a nearly $500 million increase above fiscal year 2017. "For years we have lamented the fact that the FDA has taken a soft shoe to the problem. Now, as opioid abuse has overtaken the country, finally we’ve got the FDA’s new commissioner, Scott Gottlieb, who is taking positive steps almost every day to tackle the substance abuse problem that is afflicting the country as an epidemic. So, thank you for helping with the fight to rid us of this epidemic," said Congressman Rogers, who co-chairs the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "The bill also boosts rural programs to help support water and wastewater projects, as well as direct loans for rural community facilities and low-income families who hope to purchase their own home." Additionally, Congressman Rogers advocated for robust funding for vital programs in southern and eastern Kentucky, including: U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development to support basic rural infrastructure, loans for rural businesses and balance for rural housing markets; Rural Community Facilities Direct Loans to provide affordable funding to develop essential community facilities, like rural hospitals, courthouses and police stations; and Section 502 Single Family Direct Loans to support mortgages for low-income homebuyers in rural areas. Bill Highlights: Funding for Rural Programs Agricultural Research – The bill provides $2.8 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. This funding will support research at all ARS facilities to help mitigate and stop devastating crop diseases, improve food safety and water quality, increase production, and combat antimicrobial resistance. This funding also includes research investments in U.S. land-grant colleges and universities. Rural Economic Infrastructure Grants – The bill includes $122.7 million to establish the Rural Economic Infrastructure Grant account. The account uses existing authorities from Community Connect grants, Distance Learning and Telemedicine grants, Community Facility grants, and Rural Assistance Housing grants to provide flexibility on resource allocation to achieve maximum impact. Rural Infrastructure – The legislation includes $1.25 billion – the same as the FY17 enacted level – for rural water and waste program loans. It also provides $473 million for grants and related costs, a decrease of $96 million below current levels that includes savings from reduced subsidy costs and $473 million above the request. In addition, $6.94 billion is provided for rural electric and telephone infrastructure loans, the same level as FY17. Rural Housing Loans and Rental Assistance – The bill provides a total of $24 billion in loan authority for the Single Family Housing guaranteed loan program, the same as FY17. In addition, the bill includes $900 million in direct loans that provide low-income rural families with home loan assistance. In addition, $1.345 billion is provided for rental assistance for affordable rental housing for low-income families and the elderly in rural communities for renewal of all existing rental assistance contracts. Animal and Plant Health – The legislation includes $906 million – $96 million above the President’s budget request and $40 million below the FY17 enacted level – for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. This funding will support programs to help control or eradicate plant and animal pests and diseases that can be crippling to U.S. producers. The funding level preserves previous funding increases, which will help address harmful outbreaks of citrus greening and highly pathogenic avian influenza, as well as funds to support specialty crops and the Zoonotic Disease Management Program for antimicrobial resistance activities. Business and Industry Loans – The legislation includes a loan level of $819 million for the rural business and industry loan program. This funding will help small businesses in rural areas, many of which face unique challenges due to local economic conditions. Conservation Programs – The bill provides $904 million to help farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners conserve and protect their land. This includes $45 million for infrastructure rehabilitation to help small communities meet current safety standards for watershed projects. Farm Programs – The legislation provides $1.6 billion for farm programs, which is $44 million above the President’s budget request. This funding will continue support for various farm, conservation, and emergency loan programs, and will help American farmers and ranchers with the implementation of the farm bill. It will also ensure customer service through full staffing of local county Farm Service Agency offices and meet estimates of demand for farm loan programs. Food Safety and Inspection Service – The legislation includes $1.038 billion for food safety and inspection programs – an increase of $6 million above the 2017 enacted level. These mandatory inspection activities help ensure the safety and productivity of the country’s $211 billion meat and poultry industry, and keep safe, healthy food on American tables. The funding provided will maintain more than 8,000 frontline inspection personnel for meat, poultry, and egg products at more than 6,400 facilities across the country. Funding for Food-Related Programs International Programs – The legislation contains $1.8 billion for overseas food aid and to promote U.S. agricultural exports. This includes $1.4 billion for “Food for Peace” grants and $185 million for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition program. These programs seek to reduce chronic hunger and increase food security by providing American-grown food, transported by U.S. ships, to foreign countries in need of aid. Child nutrition programs – The bill provides for $24.28 billion in required mandatory funding for child nutrition programs. This is $1.5 billion above the FY17 enacted level. This funding will provide free or reduced-price school lunches and snacks for 31 million children who qualify for the program. The bill provides approximately $640 million for the Summer Food Service Program to ensure low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. In addition, the bill continues funding for a pilot program that provides additional funds through SNAP or WIC electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards to ensure children in underserved communities receive food during the summer months.The bill continues policy provisions to stop onerous regulations on local schools, which cost them money and resources in an already tight budget climate. Some of these provisions include: A provision that allows schools demonstrating a financial hardship to seek an exemption from the whole grain nutrition standards; A provision that prevents further implementation of sodium reduction standards; and A provision that provides schools with flexibility in serving low-fat flavored milk. Food and Nutrition Programs – The legislation contains discretionary funding, as well as mandatory funding required by law, for food and nutrition programs within the Department of Agriculture. This includes funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and child nutrition programs. Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) – The bill provides $6.15 billion in discretionary funding for WIC, which is $200 million below the FY17 enacted level and the same as the President’s request. Because of robust prior-year funding and declining enrollments in the program, WIC has large carryover balances left over from previous years. Therefore, to make the best use of taxpayer dollars, the bill rescinds $600 million in these unobligated balances, which will have no impact on participation in the program. Other Programs Food and Drug Administration (FDA) – The FDA receives a total of $2.8 billion in discretionary funding in the bill, which is equal to the FY17 enacted level. Total funding for the FDA, including revenue from user fees, is $5.2 billion – $490 million above FY17. Food safety activities are supported in the bill by more than $300 million, continuing these investments to the FDA since the enactment of the Food Safety Modernization Act in 2011. The bill also appropriates $60 million as authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act, and includes language to allow FDA to receive transfers from the National Institutes of Health for support of the FDA’s Oncology Center of Excellence. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) – Included in the bill is $248 million for the CFTC, $2 million below the FY17 enacted level and the President’s budget request. This funding level will ensure robust swaps, futures, and options markets while prioritizing resources and giving flexibility for enforcement and market oversight. Watch the full House Appropriations Committee hearing at appropriations.house.gov.
06.30.2017	SOMERSET, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently gave a tribute in the U.S. House of Representatives in honor of his long-time caseworker and Social Security expert, Sarah Meece, upon her retirement after nearly 40 years of service to Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. "As Congressman, I have the privilege of assisting the people of southern and eastern Kentucky as they grapple with federal agencies. At the heart of those cases, has stood Sarah Meece, providing expert advice and staunch support for individuals in our region who need help with social security, disability and retirement claims, among many other issues," said Congressman Rogers. "In fact, over the last 36 years, Sarah has worked on approximately 150,000 cases, representing an unmatched record of assistance for more than 4,000 individuals each year. Sarah has gained so much notoriety in her field that staff from other Congressional offices and officials from the Administration contact her for guidance in casework." Meece began working for Rogers during his campaign for Leiutenant Governor of Kentucky in 1979, while he was the Commonwealth's Attorney for Pulaski and Rockcastle Counties. She helped him win his first bid to represent Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District in 1980 and has worked diligently alongside him for the people of southern and eastern Kentucky. "I’m forever grateful to have such a great friend and loyal advisor over these last four decades. Sarah’s life’s work has given countless families hope in their darkest hour and comforted them through lengthy and complex federal issues." Meece retired from the Somerset District Office on Friday, June 30, 2017. To read the entire tribute to Sarah Meece in the Congressional Record, visit halrogers.house.gov.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) voted for two bills to combat sanctuary cities and protect Americans from violent illegal immigrants who repeatedly reenter the country after deportation. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act,H.R. 3003, would withhold federal grants from cities that harbor unlawful immigrants and refuse to adhere to federal deportation laws. Kate's Law,H.R. 3004 would toughen the punishment for illegal immigrants who reenter the country. "Too many people have lost their lives at the hands of violent illegal immigrants who had been deported multiple times. The criminals found safety from deportation in a U.S. city doing more to protect them than its own American citizens. Their crimes are senseless, preventable and heartbreaking," said Congressman Rogers. "These bills improve our nation's immigration system, protect the American people and restore confidence in public safety in our own communities." Kate's Law is named for Kate Steinle, a young woman who was shot in the back and killed by a seven-time felon and illegal alien who had been deported five times. He had taken refuge in San Francisco, a sanctuary city. Both bills now head to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, the U.S. House Appropriations Committee approved the federal Defense spending bill for fiscal year 2018. The legislation provides $658.1 billion for the Department of Defense (DoD), including operations, readiness activities, combatting terrorism, and health and quality-of-life programs for U.S. troops and military families. "This bill will strengthen U.S. military forces, improve readiness and boost healthcare for our troops, their families and retirees," said Congressman Rogers. "We have a duty to equip our men and women on the front lines with the necessary tools and training to aid them in protecting our homeland, supporting our allies overseas, and guarding against violent extremists." During the bill markup, Congressman Rogers, who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the committee, advocated for rapid advances in connecting electronic health records between the DoD and the Veterans Administration (VA). "A few years ago, a young soldier was brought to my office here from my district who had been severely injured in Afghanistan. He lost, completely, the sight in one eye. He was brought to the hospital in Germany and they were able to save the other eye. However, it started to deteriorate after a couple of years," explained Congressman Rogers. "The VA hospital in Lexington could not get records from DoD about the operation in Germany, while he was on active duty. The systems just don’t communicate with each other. He lost his other eye. A sad story that’s been repeated time and again." The House Appropriations Committee discovered the disconnect between the two federal agencies several years ago. "It's sad to say the problem is still not yet fixed," continued Congressman Rogers. "We've poured millions into it, both the VA and the DoD - each one of them wanting to protect their own system, which is egregious, bureaucratic and bungling." Chairwoman Kay Granger confirmed the Defense bill fully funds the request to expand the DoD's new electronic health records pilot program to additional sites to improve the system. The bill now heads to the full U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. To watch the FY18 Defense Appropriations Bill markup, visit appropriations.house.gov. The bill was approved by the Committee on a voice vote. For a bill summary, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394930 For the bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-115-hr.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-115hr-sc-ap-fy2018-defense-defense.pdf
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal' Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today regarding the Trump Administration's intent to repeal and replace the Obama-era Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. The overreaching rule was published in June 2015 by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Clean Water Act (CWA), expanding their regulatory power over private waterways. "Withdrawing the Obama-era WOTUS rule would restore power back to each state and back to private land owners. The Obama Administration tried to run roughshod over our hard working farmers, contractors and private land owners to control everything from ditches to dirt-moving activity. I applaud the Trump Administration for moving forward with efforts to rescind the WOTUS rule and protect Americans from unnecessary regulations." The announcement comes four months after President Trump signed an executive order for the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to consider rescinding and replacing the rule. The Supreme Court has twice affirmed the federal-state regulatory partnership, ruling that there are limits to federal jurisdiction under the CWA, and furthermore that the Agencies had breached these limits. Last year, Rogers voted for S.J. Res. 22, a joint resolution disapproving of a rule redefining Waters of the United States under the Clean Water Act, in an effort to block the rule and prohibit any new rules with similar intent. In 2015, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay against the rule.
06.27.2017	Congressman Rogers' RECLAIM Act of 2017 (H.R. 1731) gained ground in the U.S. House today as it was passed by the House Natural Resources Committee (HNR). The bipartisan RECLAIM Act would provide a boost to coal country by fast-tracking the release of $1 billion in available funding from the Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AML) Fund to reclaim former coal mining land and spur economic development. The bill now heads to the full House for consideration. "I sponsored the RECLAIM Act to help revitalize coal communities all across the nation that have been devastated by the downturn of the coal industry," said Congressman Rogers. "Nearly 12,000 coal miners have been laid off in Eastern Kentucky over the last eight years. Families that relied on good paying jobs in the mines are now going bankrupt. Our small counties that once received sizable revenues from coal severence tax dollars are struggling to provide basic services. These are hardworking people who are looking for opportunities, and the RECLAIM Act stands to create thousands of good paying jobs in the communities that need it most." States and local governments can leverage funding from RECLAIM to secure additional sources of public and private funding to develop abandoned mine lands for economic development opportunities, such as new water lines, hiking trails, small business expansions and new industry recruitment. "The possibiities are endless," said Congressman Rogers. "This bill represents a real investment in coal country - one that will provide much needed resources to clean up the environment, create jobs and strengthen these communities from the ground up." Rogers praised HNR Chairman Rob Bishop, Ranking Member Raul Grijalva and members of the committee for marking up the bill and shepherding it through the committee for a successful vote. Click here to read Congressman Rogers' full statement for the record.
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman Hal Rogers congratulates Rowan County Middle School for being selected as a "School to Watch" in 2017 by the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform. The recognition is awarded to high-performing middle schools that demonstrate academic excellence, developmental responsiveness, and social equity. In the photo left to right: Glen Teager, Rowan County School District Finance Officer; Allison Stone, Special Education Teacher for Rowan County Schools; Congressman Rogers; Jay Padula, Principal of Rowan County Middle School; and Steve Tribble, Schools to Watch Coach
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Three Eastern Kentucky students have earned the Gold Congressional Award Medal through their exemplary achievements in The Congressional Award program. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers presented two gold medals today during a national ceremony in Washington, D.C. to Zach Kiser from Grayson, Kentucky and Kayla Sears from Williamsburg, Kentucky. In May, Congressman Rogers also presented the gold medal to John Garland, who has since graduated from Somerset Christian School. To earn the medals, each student set and achieved personal goals in four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. "Students who earn the prestigious Gold Congressional Award Medal have demonstrated an extremely high level of iniative, service and achievement," said Congressman Rogers. "It lets our universities and employers know that these young people will make great college students and leaders among their peers in the business world. I'm extremely proud of our students in southern and eastern Kentucky who are participating in the program and especially our three students who earned the gold medal this year." All students age 14 to 24 can participate in The Congressional Award program by registering online at http://congressionalaward.org. Zach Kiser, Gold Medalist from Grayson, Ky. Kayla Sears, Gold Medalist from Williamsburg, Ky John Garland, Gold Medalist from Somerset, Ky.
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt about how the agency's proposed "back to the basics" budget for fiscal year 2018 will impact coal country. The budget proposes a $2.5 billion cut to the EPA to reduce redundancies and inefficiencies, while prioritizing the core statutory mission of providing Americans with clean air, land and water. "I want to talk to you about the culture of overreach in that agency. Time and again, federal courts have held that the agency was overreaching its legal authority, engaging in activiities that were not authorized by the United States Congress. It became a practice that repeated itself time and again. It had devastating impacts in certain parts of the country, including mine in the coal fields, where the war on coal led by the EPA resulted in some 12,000 miners losing their jobs and their homes in my region alone," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "What will you be doing to change the culture of overreach in that agency where the employees, both career and political, overstepped their boundaries time and time again. What can we expect?" Pruitt, who is a native of Kentucky, said the agency will end Obama-era practices of "regulation by litigation." "When you disrespect rule of law, when you take statutes passed by Congress and act in a way that's not authorized, it creates uncertainty. We're going to stay within our lane. We're going to stay within the authorities provided by Congress. If you have not spoken to an issue, if you have not given authority to the agency, we're not going to reimagine it. We're not going to create it. We're going to let you know when those deficiencies arise," said Pruitt. "We need the help of Congress to achieve good environmental outcomes." Pruitt said planned reductions in personnel will be achieved through attrition, continuation of the hiring freeze, and the initiation of voluntary buy-outs. He said about 20% of the agency is eligible for retirement. To watch the entire hearing, visit appropriations.house.gov. WATCH: EPA FY18 Budget Hearing with Administrator Pruitt
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) presided over a federal budget hearing with U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to discuss the Department's budget request for international affairs programs, as well as sanctions, terrorist financing and anti-money laundering programs for fiscal year 2018. The hearing was briefly delayed after the shooting Wednesday morning in Alexandria, Virginia that injured Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police officers, and a congressional staff member. Rogers, who serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommitte on State and Foreign Operations, began the hearing with a moment of recognition for those injured. "Before we proceed with the hearing, I want to take a moment to say that our thoughts and prayers are with my friend, Steve Scalise, and his family, as well as the Capital Police officers, and staff injured by the shooting this morning. This is all very troubling and sad. We hope and pray for a full and quick recovery for all involved. We're also deeply grateful for the men and women of the Capitol Police who selflessly dedicate themselves to protecting us each and every day." In his opening remarks, Chairman Rogers asked how President Trump's "buy American and hire American" policy is being received by international trading partners; whether we are getting international cooperation on sanctions against Russia, North Korea, and Iran; and how other donor countries are responding to the President's proposed cuts to foreign assistance. He also asked how the Department could ensure payments to multilateral development banks are not used to provide assistancee to countries that support terrorism. "Mr. Secretary, U.S. assistance is intended to aid those who are suffering from famine, poverty, and disease, not to enrich their governments, especially if their government is corrupt or violent, or provides safe haven to terrorists," said Chairman Rogers. "For years, the State, Foreign Operations bill has included a prohibition against providing U.S. foreign assistance to governments that either provide sanctuary for terrorists or otherwise support international terrorism." Sec. Mnuchin said the Department would do everything within its power to ensure no payments to multilateral development banks go to countries that support terrorism. To watch the full hearing, visit appropriations.house.gov. WATCH: House Budget Hearing with Treasury Sec. Mnuchin
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) for investing $1.87 million to help expand and diversify the economy in the coalfields of southern and eastern Kentucky. Together, the projects will help create new jobs, support new businesses, enhance workforce training and education, promote exports of Appalachian-made crafts and products, and boost tourism efforts in the region. "The ARC continues to help empower southern and eastern Kentuckians through critical funding for projects that will inspire folks to start a dream business, strengthen our STEM education and workforce development efforts, and revitalize tourism in our region," said Congressman Rogers. "This funding works in concert with the mission of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalchian Region - as we reimagine and diversify our rural communities." The Kentucky projects are part of a total ARC investment totaling $15.7 million for 18 projects in seven Appalachian states. “Each one of these awards is a blueprint for new jobs, fresh opportunities, and a robust economic future for Kentucky.” said ARC Federal Co-Chairman Earl F. Gohl. “Together, these investments bring added capital into the Region, and help Appalachia prepare to globally compete in manufacturing, technology, construction, and a variety of other industry sectors.” The ARC awarded funding through the POWER Initiative (Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization) for the follow projects: $1 million ARC grant to Community Ventures Corporation in Lexington, Kentucky, for the Build Appalachia Loan Fund project. The Build Appalachia Loan Fund will provide affordable capital to educational institutions in Appalachian Kentucky and West Virginia who will own, operate, and manage facilities that are eligible for New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC). The loan fund will provide gap financing for major projects and will attract primary and leveraged financing for the construction or renovation of college facilities. A strategic partner in the Build Appalachia Loan Fund is the Appalachian College Association, a group of 4-year private educational institutions that seek new sources of investment capital. The fund’s focus will be in healthcare-related higher education, given that much of the region is medically underserved and there is strong demand for qualified health professionals. Additional financial support for the fund is being provided by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation, and the Opportunity Finance Network. The Build Appalachia Loan Fund will leverage $50 million in private investment in 5 projects, creating 500 new jobs in healthcare related activities. $497,305 ARC grant to Morehead State University in Morehead, Kentucky, for the next phase of Shaping Our Appalachian Region Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (SOAR STEM) project. The project’s goal is to develop a highly skilled STEM workforce that can foster job growth and business expansion in an area that has experienced major job losses because of the decline in coal. It has four main areas of focus: upskilling teachers so that they receive National Board Certification; training high school teachers across 27 counties of eastern Kentucky to implement curriculum developed by Project Lead The Way, a nationally recognized developer of K-12 STEM education curricula and professional development; supporting the development of Mentoring Centers--partnerships between industry and local school districts that provide paid internships and mentoring for high school students and connect the future workforce with local employers; and support for maker spaces, entrepreneur hubs, and a Navy Seals coding boot camp that provide hands-on skill training and experience. The program will train over 80 teachers and impact 20,000 students over the first three years of implementation. $300,000 ARC grant to Southeast Kentucky Community and Technical College (SEKCTC) in Cumberland, Kentucky, for the Selling to the World Initiative. SEKCTC, along with Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP) and the Discover Downtown Middlesboro Main Street Association, piloted an initiative in 2015 targeting eastern Kentucky artisans and craftspeople whose products are the type and quality that could support internet-based businesses for world-wide marketing and sales. The Initiative seeks to boost the region's economy—which has been adversely affected major job losses in the coal industry—by growing local businesses, strengthening the entrepreneurial support system, helping “brand” products from the region, and promoting exports. The two-year launch phase of the initiative was privately funded by the New York Community Trust. The ARC investment will continue this activity, concentrating on artisan businesses from four coal-impacted eastern Kentucky counties, one county from northeast Tennessee, and one from southwest Virginia. The program for artists and craft makers is expected to help create 30 new jobs and leverage $297,000 in private investment. $80,000 ARC technical assistance grant for Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, Inc. in Somerset, Kentucky for the Restoring PRIDE in Kentucky's Appalachia project. PRIDE, along with The Foundation for Appalachian Kentucky, Eastern Kentucky University, and Union College, will develop a tourism-based strategic plan for 41 counties in eastern Kentucky, an area impacted by the downturn in the coal industry. By the end of the 12-month technical assistance, the partners will decide upon a branding plan to attract public and private investment for increased economic activity via joint marketing initiatives, new branding, and heritage tourism activities. Restoring PRIDE in Kentucky's Appalachiawill help current businesses to increase their revenue and provide support to at least 20 new entrepreneurs within the project area over the next three years. The project partners will work to leverage at least $500,000 to invest into the implementation of the branding plan. For more information, visit arc.gov.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) presided over a budget hearing for the U.S. Department of State with Secretary Rex Tillerson to review ongoing foreign policy and national security operations and the proposed budget for fiscal year 2018. Chairman Rogers applauded Sec. Tillerson for proposing to continue funding to support agreements with Israel, prioritizing a strategy to defeat ISIS, and supporting programs to counter Russian agression. However, he shared concerns about reengaging with Russia, protecting U.S. personnel overseas, proposed sweeping cuts to foreign aid, and efforts to end illicit cocaine imports from Columbia to the United States. Chairman Rogers made the following remarks during his opening statement: "Good afternoon. The hearing will come to order. "Secretary Tillerson, thank you for being here today to discuss the State Department’s fiscal year 2018 budget request, and thank you for your service to our country. I would like to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for joining us as well– I know these issues are very important to him."I would also like to recognize our Ranking Member, Mrs. Lowey. I am pleased we are able to continue working together as chair and ranking of the State Foreign Operations Subcommittee. I want the Secretary to know this Subcommittee has history of bipartisanship and I hope that will continue as we move through the appropriations process for this fiscal year. "Mr. Secretary, these are challenging times, to say the least, for our country’s foreign policy and national security. There are crises at seemingly every corner of the globe. As the nation’s top diplomat, I know you are most keenly aware of this. From long-standing challenges such as achieving Middle East peace, ensuring stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan, to maintaining cooperation among our Gulf partners, denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, tackling drugs, crime, and corruption in our own hemisphere, and the critically important task of leading a global coalition to defeat ISIS, you have your work cut out for you. "The President’s budget request for the Department of State and foreign operations for fiscal year 2018 is $40.09 billion, which includes $28.08 billion in base funding and $12.01 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations, or OCO funding. In total, that’s a cut of 24% from the level included in the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus, under which we now operate. "While I support the President’s efforts to beef up our military through the defense budget, the sweeping cuts proposed to the State Department and our international assistance programs are deeply concerning. Many of us share the views articulated so well by Admiral Mullen and General Jones in their recent op-ed entitled “Why foreign aid is critical to the U.S. national security”. "I appreciate that this budget request fully funds the Memorandum of Understanding with Israel. It is imperative that during such dangerous times in the Middle East, Israel be able to maintain its qualitative military edge. The budget also prioritizes programs that support the campaign to defeat ISIS, but the proposed cuts to security and economic assistance for many of our partners in this fight sends at best a mixed message about our commitment to them and to the fight. I hope you can reassure us today by addressing how the Foreign Military Financing Program and Economic Support and Development Fund requests will meet the needs of partner countries engaged in defeating ISIS. "Although the funding levels are reduced, I am pleased the request continues to focus on programs that counter Russian aggression. I understand from your statements last week that the President asked you to begin a reengagement process with Russia. I would like you to tell the Subcommittee what that entails because from where I sit, their actions on so-called “areas of mutual interest” continue to be problematic. A good example is North Korea -- one of the greatest global threats today. Recent reports indicate Russia has stepped up their economic engagement with North Korea intending to diminish the impact of China’s economic sanctions. I don’t have enough time today to go through the list, but with almost every top U.S. security priority, you will find Russia working against our interests in some manner, not to mention the arrests taking place this week in the streets of Moscow. "I’ve noted many of the ongoing global crises that require diplomatic efforts, but they also underscore the tremendous need for continued investments in humanitarian assistance, democracy promotion, and support for global health and development programs. This budget proposal makes significant cuts in these areas that I believe are contrary to our country’s long history of leading the world in helping the most vulnerable during times of crises, conflict, and unrest. "Mr. Secretary, I hope you can reassure us that keeping U.S. personnel safe while serving abroad is at the top of your priorities. The recent attack in Kabul is a reminder that we must remain ever vigilant in the defense of U.S. personnel and facilities overseas. It will certainly be my first objective as we review your request and move through the appropriations process. I hope you will address how such a challenging task will be achieved with substantially fewer resources. "Before I close, I want you to know that I take my role in providing oversight of your Department and the many foreign assistance programs very seriously. My first hearing as Chair of this Subcommittee was with the Inspectors General of State and USAID to identify the most significant management challenges. I’m sure I don’t need to tell you, there are many and they are indeed significant. I intend to address this issue further in my questions, but I believe there needs to be a position at the highest levels that can focus on the business of managing the operations and assistance of the Department of State. "As you and I have talked briefly, from very early on, about a need for a deputy secretary for management, freeing you and the policy-makers of the necessary time of the paper work of running the Department. "Mr. Secretary, I look forward to working with you to identify your most pressing needs and to support you in your efforts to maximize efficiencies and find other cost saving measures. The taxpayers deserve this level of scrutiny and review that you have underway. However, it is the Congress that has the Constitutional duty to fund the federal government and this Subcommittee will uphold this responsibility by carefully considering the impact of the President’s proposed funding and personnel reductions to the State Department and foreign assistance programs. "You have your work cut out for you and we want to be there to help in the chores that are important to all of us." To watch the full hearing, visit appropriations.house.gov. WATCH: FY18 House Budget Hearing with Sec. Tillerson
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) pressed U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein about the Administration's proposal to rescind funding for the Letcher County Prison during a hearing on Tuesday for the Department of Justice's fiscal year 2018 budget. Congress approved $444 million for construction of the facility in 2016, which would create approximately 300 jobs in Eastern Kentucky. The facility is scheduled to be built in Roxanna, Kentucky and is awaiting the release of the Bureau of Prison's Record of Decision, expected later this year. "As you know, overcrowding in federal penitentiaries poses significant problems for the health and safety of inmates and guards alike. The Government Accountability Office reports that Bureau of Prisons facilities experience 30% overcrowding system-wide and 52% overcrowding among high-security penitentiaries," said Congressman Rogers, who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "With that in mind, this Committee and the Congress passed a bill last year appropriating funds for a new penitentiary in Letcher County, Kentucky to help alleviate the crowding. In your budget request, you specifically rescind the money for that facility. What I want to know is, are you serious?" General Rosenstein said tough budget choices had been made as a result of the Administration's tight budget proposal. He also noted a 14% decline in prison population over the last four years. "General, the Congress decided this and it’s the Congress that controls the purse strings of the country. It’s been passed. It’s the law. The money is there - appropriated, authorized, everything in order," responded Congressman Rogers. "We recognize there’s a problem. We’ve got terrific overcrowding. Yes, we’ve made some reductions in recent years, but not enough. This has been decided and we expect it to be carried out." During the hearing, Rogers also shared concerns about continued funding to combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic. To watch the full hearing, visit appropriations.house.gov. Watch FY18 Dept. of Justice budget hearing with Deputy Attny. Gen. Rosenstein
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, during a federal budget hearing, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned NASA's Acting Administrator, Robert M. Lightfoot, about proposed cuts to educational programs int eh fiscal year 2018 proposed budget. "I’m concerned in your proposed budget, your cuts to the office of education – in fact zero," said Rogers, Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "The education programs, hopefully, have been spreading the word about NASA’s excitement. I can’t understand why you would want to cut that." Morehead State University (MSU) and the University of Kentucky have utilized competitive education grant funding from NASA's EPSCoR and Space Grants to develop successful aerospace programs. Next week, MSU's aerospace programs will be featured during NASA's annual Technology Day on the Hill. "Just in April, NASA deployed two CubeSats developed by the University of Kentucky and Morehead State University, as part of your ongoing Educational Launch of Nanosatellites Mission; the first time too two Kentucky satellites have been launched simultaneously," said Rogers. "Your investments have also promoted high retention for Kentucky’s STEM workforce." Lightfoot testified that NASA is working to balance outreach and assessment programs more effectively, while maintaining partnerships with universities and STEM-related programs. Rogers also advocated for continued downlinks from the International Space Station with local schools. Last August, Rogers participated in a NASA downlink with Leslie County High School. "That will be in the minds of those young people from here on. That's the kind of thing that I think we need to do more of, inspiring the up-and-coming young students who have no other way to understand and learn what space is all about," continued Rogers. "You've got the only classroom there is in space." Lightfoot confirmed NASA plans to continue downlinks from the International Space Station and to host school groups at NASA locations. To watch the full hearing, click the photo below or visit appropriations.house.gov. VIDEO: Rogers' statement and questions at 24:05-31:13
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the Financial CHOICE Act to support small businesses, spur job creation and rein in the complex Dodd-Frank Act, which contains more regulations than all of the Obama-era regulations combined. "The Financial Choice Act is another promise kept by this Congress to promote job creation across the country through legislation that rescues Main Street, rather than biliing taxpayers for bailouts on Wall Street," said Congressman Rogers, who voted for the bill. "Community banks across America are closing every day, making lending more difficult for farmers, small start-up companies and businesses that need to expand. This bill protects taxpayers, mobilizes first-time home buyers and gets the American dream for job creators back on track." The Financial CHOICE Act now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here for more information about the Financial CHOICE Act.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers continues to advocate for federal support to revitalize coal country. During a federal budget hearing for fiscal year 2018 with Secretary Ryan Zinke from the U.S. Department of Interior, Rogers questioned why the agency proposed to eliminate important programs that would support ongoing efforts for economic growth in Central Appalachia. Specifically, Secretary Zinke's budget would eliminate the Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Pilot Project that has provided a total of $195 million in fiscal years 2016 and 2017 for projects that reclaim abandoned mine lands and create jobs in states hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry over the last eight years, including Kentucky. "I come from coal country, or what used to be coal country. Now these towns have more plywood windows than paned glass," said Rogers, who serves as Chairman Emeritus of the House Appropriations Committee. "I've lost 12,000 coal mining jobs just in my district in the last few years, a good part of which was caused by the United States federal government under the last administration. The war on coal is real and unfortunately has had a devastating impact." "The AML Pilot Program is a win-win. It's good for the environment and it's good for jobs. It has bipartisan support here in the Congress and we're seeing good results of projects that have been undertaken and delivered with this two-year pilot program. It's working and it's helping desperate areas of the country," continued Rogers. "It's limited to a few states where the impact has been the most severe. That's why I was completely flabergasted in seeing in your budget request, the elimination of that program. This coming from an administration that I was led to believe wanted to help coal country. In eliminating this kind of program, it sends a glaring message to these desperate people who had a big impact in the recent election." Rogers also asked Secretary Zinke to "shake loose" a 2016 study of the pilot program that he requested from the Offce of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement. Secretary Zinke committed to follow up on the report. In addition, Rogers urged Secretary Zinke's support and collaboration on the bipartisan RECLAIM Act of 2017 that has been introduced in both the U.S. House and Senate. The RECLAIM Act of 2017 fast-tracks the release of $1 billion of available, unspent dollars in the federal Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Fund for the purpose of reclaming abandoned mine lands and economic development in coal country. "The money must be used on abandoned mine lands, but with a bent toward economic development potential for creating jobs at the same time," said Rogers. "It's a multi-state bill. It has agreement in the west and east of the U.S., and from both parties and both houses of the Congress. And I would hope, Mr. Secretary, you would see your way clear to be supportive of that type of bill." Secretary Zinke responded, "There are about 1,800 mines on the list for reclamation, but to turn those lands over to something productive is something I think is beneficial to us all." For more information about the RECLAIM Act of 2017, visit halrogers.house.gov. To watch the full hearing, click the photo below or visit appropriations.house.gov. VIDEO: Rogers' statement and questions at 32:20-40:10
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord and negotiate a new plan: "America needs pro-job, pro-energy policies to get our country back on track. Clean coal technology is a critical part of our energy portfolio, but we shouldn't be putting the United States at a competitive disadvantage or make the costs of energy higher for the American people, as the Paris agreement would. President Obama bypassed congressional approval to enter into the climate accord that would force the United States to reduce fossil fuel emissions by 30 percent by the year 2025 and jeopardizes 2.7 million jobs. I applaud President Trump for his decision to begin negotiating a new agreement to support coal production, protect American jobs and spur affordable energy."
05.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, released the following statement regarding recent deadly attacks in Kabul, Afghanistan. “I strongly condemn the cowardly attacks in Kabul – another tragic reminder that we must remain ever vigilant in our quest to end violent extremism. Our thoughts and prayers are with those who have suffered at the hands of these terrorists, and also with those who will work to rebuild the Afghan capital in the coming weeks and months. Protecting our diplomats and their families abroad is one of our chief responsibilities, and we remain committed to providing robust resources for embassy security through the appropriations process.”
05.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement about the passing of former U.S. Senator Jim Bunning. "I was saddened to learn of the passing of a true Kentucky legend. Senator Jim Bunning was many things -- an indomitable force on the pitcher's mound, a stalwart champion of the Commonwealth in the United States Congress, and the proud patriarch of a remarkable family. He was bold and headstrong, but also fiercely loyal - a combination that made him effective in every endeavor he undertook. Jim left an indelible mark on our state, on our nation - and his legacy will endure for generations. My wife, Cynthia, and I extend our deepest condolences to Mary and their family during this difficult time."
05.26.2017	Lexington, KY – The board of the Henry Clay Memorial Foundation presented U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers with the Henry Clay Medallion at a private ceremony on May 11th. Hal Rogers is currently in his 19th term representing the people of the 5th Congressional District in southern and eastern Kentucky. He is the longest serving Kentucky Republican ever elected to federal office. The Henry Clay Medallion was established in 1993 to honor one whose life’s work reflects the ideals held by Henry Clay. Previous recipients include Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, Wendell H. Ford, Ted Turner, Lucille Caudill Little, Itzhak Perlman, and Speakers of the House John Boehner, Nancy Pelosi, Dennis Hastert, and Jim Wright. “Congressman Rogers and Henry Clay have a lot in common,” noted Jim Clark, Executive Director of the Henry Clay Memorial Foundation. “They both rose from humble origins to the highest levels of our nation’s leadership. They both served Kentucky and the nation for more than three decades. They were both champions of public infrastructure. And interestingly, they both share the nickname ‘Hal’.” Rogers was born in rural Kentucky and represents one of the poorest Congressional Districts in the nation. His vision for a stronger region spurred some of the greatest success stories in southern and eastern Kentucky. Organizations such as PRIDE, Operation UNITE, Southeast Kentucky Economic Development (SKED), The Center for Rural Development and Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) have brought local communities together by revitalizing the environment, providing hope in the fight against drugs, building small businesses, and creating jobs in one of the most beautiful regions of the country. The Henry Clay Memorial Foundation exists to promote the legacy of Henry Clay, to share his continued relevance locally and nationally as a great statesman and to preserve his beloved “Ashland” as a testament to his life and his love of Kentucky and country. The Henry Clay Medallion award ceremony was sponsored by UK Healthcare and held at Buffalo Trace Distillery on May 11. ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump's proposed budget for fiscal year 2018, entitled: A New Foundation for American Greatness. “President Trump proposed an aggressive budget to beef up our national defense, while also working to balance federal spending over the long run. It includes important funding for priorities like immigration enforcement and combatting the nation’s opioid epidemic, while also preserving Social Security and Medicare benefits for our most vulnerable. However, the proposed cuts to some federal programs are not mere shavings; they are rather deep and harmful to my district spanning Kentucky’s Appalachian region and other rural, impoverished parts of the country. The Congress has a Constitutional duty to fund the federal government and protect taxpayer spending, and we will uphold that responsibility through the appropriations process for fiscal year 2018. We will responsibly consider the impact of every component of President Trump’s blueprint. However, we must ensure that we take care of the less fortunate and protect federal programs, like the Appalachian Regional Commission, that provide vital resources for rural communities and families every year." Foreign Aid “As Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I am pleased with the President’s focus on defeating ISIS and other terrorist organizations, countering Russian aggression, combatting transnational crime, and shoring up our borders here at home. However, the proposed cuts to U.S. diplomacy and assistance are sweeping and potentially counterproductive to our national security goals. The United States has a long history of providing humanitarian aid and helping our most vulnerable neighbors during times of crises, conflict, and unrest. Our nation is stronger when our allies and partners are stronger. We must continue to support U.S. diplomatic and development efforts, alongside our military engagement, as we seek to secure our nation and finalize the budget for fiscal year 2018." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
05.12.2017	SOMERSET, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. The winning artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year, representing southern and eastern Kentucky. The first place winner is Yedarm Lee, a senior at Somerset Christian School. Yedarm Lee brought a squirrel to life in her pencil drawing entitled, "Squirrel." Her art teacher is Guy Crubaugh and she is an international student from South Korea. She will recieve two airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C. for the 2017 winning artists. "Our region has a number of incredibly talented artists and this competition provides a way to highlight our students' work on the national level," said Congressman Rogers, who hosts the competition for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District each year. "Yedarm's lively squirrel will captivate thousands of visitors in the U.S. Capitol Building throughout the year." The second place artwork entitled, "Summer Afternoon" was submitted by Ariel Cline, a senior at Corbin High School. Her watercolor painting featured her and her friends on a raft at a pond on a sunny afternoon. Ariel's art teacher is Brenda Daniel and her parents are Jessica Poff and Michael Cline. The third place artwork entitled, "Sunshine" was created by a sophomore at McCreary Central High School, Emilie Loudermilk. Emilie's artwork features a woman dancing in a blue dress with bright colorful spots under her feet. Her art teacher is Jackie Watters and her parents are Madonna and Tony Loudermilk. All of the artists will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition and a letter from Congressman Rogers for their participation. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. For information about the annual competition, visit halrogers.house.gov. 2017 Congressional Art Competition Winner, Yedarm Lee from Somerset Christian School 2nd Place Winner "Summer Afternoon" by Ariel Cline from Corbin High School 3rd Place Winner "Sunshine" by Emilie Loudermilk from McCreary Central High School
05.10.2017	Summit Aviation, a Greenwich AeroGroup company, celebrated its expanding aviation parts manufacturing operations today with a ribbon cutting ceremony. Summit’s Somerset operations started in 2007 as a labor-only supplier to Schweizer Aircraft, today Summit Aviation’s manufacturing facility provides full-service support to build aerostructure product assemblies for a variety of military and commercial helicopters and fixed wing aircraft. Since its inception, Summit Aviation’s manufacturing workforce has grown six-fold. Quadrupling its business over the last four years, the company now has 40,000 square feet of work space in its newly constructed digs compared to its previous work area of 26,000 square feet. “Our growth is a testament to the hard work of our employees, the strong partnerships we have formed over the years and the new ones we are creating,” said Vice President and General Manager of Summit Aviation Ralph Kunz. “Additionally, our collaboration with local investors and the Pulaski County government is proving beneficial for not only our business but also our employees and this community.” “Summit’s expansion is a great way to celebrate ten years of productivity and job creation in Somerset,” said U.S. Representative for Kentucky’s 5th congressional district Hal Rogers. “I am grateful that this impressive company chose to utilize our world-class workforce to manufacture aviation products that are used by our U.S. military and others. I applaud Summit’s continued success and commitment to our region.” Kunz added that over the last 10 years the company has grown its customer base to include companies such as Northrop Grumman, Bombardier Learjet, Lockheed Martin and others.
05.09.2017	Washington, D.C. -- The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) presented Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY-05) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at an event hosted by Aisin Automotive Casting in London, Kentucky. Scott Turpin, president, Aisin World Corp. of America, said Aisin is honored to host the NAM awards ceremony recognizing Rep. Rogers for his many years of dedicated service to manufacturers in Kentucky. “We’re pleased and fortunate to have such a great friend in Rep. Hal Rogers,” said Turpin. “Rep. Rogers has dedicated his career to helping improve the lives of his constituents by providing a positive, business-friendly environment so companies like Aisin Automotive Castings can thrive and continue to manufacture quality parts. His support has been overwhelming and has continued even as the business climate changed over the past 20 years.” Turpin added that Aisin has received tremendous support from Rogers since the decision was made to locate its first North American die casting plant in Southeastern Kentucky. “Manufacturers need people in Congress that understand the issues facing us today as well as the obstacles ahead,” said Turpin. Congressman Rogers’ pro-manufacturing voting record demonstrates his commitment to supporting the needs of manufacturers and providing good jobs in Kentucky.” “We have nearly 244,000 people in Kentucky working in the manufacturing industry, creating products for suppliers around the world and boosting our economy,” said Congressman Rogers. “I'm honored to work hand-in-hand with industry leaders, like Aisin and NAM, to spur innovation, create local jobs and support quality exports.” “Manufacturers in Kentucky and across the country are changing lives for the better—through the jobs we create and the products we make. Manufacturing is about improving the human condition, one innovation at a time,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Rep. Rogers is helping to make our success possible by standing with manufacturers when it matters and casting the right votes. “Manufacturers employ over 12 million men and women in the U.S., who are making everything from lifesaving medicines to the most cutting edge technology. The strength of manufacturing in America is responsible for the success of America in the world. When manufacturing succeeds, America succeeds, so Rep. Rogers’ consistent support for manufacturing means he is supporting a better future for all Americans.” Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here . Congressman Rogers presented with NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence -###- The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing employs more than 12 million men and women, contributes $2 . 17 trillion to the U.S. economy annually, has the largest economic impact of any major sector and accounts for two-thirds of private-sector research and development. The NAM is the powerful voice of the manufacturing community and the leading advocate for a policy agenda that helps manufacturers compete in the global economy and create jobs across the United States. For more information about the Manufacturers or to follow us on Shopfloor, Twitter and Facebook, please visit www.nam.org . Aisin Group is the sixth largest, global Tier One supplier of automotive components and systems such as brakes, transmissions, navigation systems, drivetrain, chassis, body, engine-related parts, electronics and intelligent transportation systems, and is the largest transmission manufacturer in the world. A $32 billion company, Aisin Group has 189 consolidated companies and employs more than 100,000 people. In the Americas, Aisin Group companies include 13,500 employees, 35 manufacturing, sales, and R & D centers, including Aisin Technical Center of America located at the North American Headquarters in Northville, Mich., and FT-Techno of America, the company's 950-acre test track and proving ground in Fowlerville, Mich. In London, Kentucky, Aisin Automotive Casting employs more than 700 team members. The plant is located on 41 acres and manufactures and assembles a variety of die cast parts (oil pumps, water pumps, engine and transmission parts, and brake components), for a number of customers including Toyota, General Motors, Nissan, Chrysler, and OTICS.
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Earlier this week, the 115th Congress passed the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill to fund the federal government through September 30, 2017. The legislation prioritizes national defense efforts and border security, providing $25 billion more than last year for the Department of Defense (DOD) and a $911 million increase for Customs and Border Protection (CBP). This includes the largest pay raise in six years for U.S. troops. President Trump signed the bill into law today. "The United States has always maintained a powerhouse military operation and this funding will continue to support our men and women in uniform at home and overseas. We have prioritized readiness, training, and health care for our troops and their families," said Congressman Rogers, who continues to sit on the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations. "The legislation also provides a boost for enhanced military equipment and state-of-the-art vehicles. I'm proud of the companies in southern and eastern Kentucky that have been awarded competitive contracts to manufacture some of the essential equipment used by our U.S. Armed Forces every day, including aircraft parts, drone operations and military gear."The bill expands training and health care for our troops, ramps up the complex fight against terrorism, and increases support for our allies overseas. The Omnibus also constitutes the largest increase in border security funding in a decade. Specifically, the bill includes funding for: National Defense Combating Global Threats – funds our ongoing operations against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and supports increased U.S. military presence in European nations being threatened by Russian aggression. Readiness and Training – supports readiness programs, increased flight and training time, as well as depot maintenance in order to ensure that our troops and their equipment are prepared for the demands of responding to worldwide threats. Health Care & Research – provides $34.1 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide comprehensive care for our active duty troops and retirees. The bill funds crucial research on cancer, traumatic brain injury, cancer, and psychological health. Border Security Protecting Our Borders - Customs and Border Protection is receiving a $911 million increase in funding—which enable CBP to hire more agents, secure advanced border technology, and utilize new tools that will help stop the illegal flow of drugs and people across our borders. The end of “catch and release” - Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is provided additional resources for tens of thousands of detention beds, electronic monitoring, GPS tracking, and hiring of additional officers to tackle our nation’s illegal immigration crisis. Preventing & Investigating Crimes – ICE is allocated an additional $92 million to help improve capabilities to combat cybercrimes, drug smuggling, human trafficking, and child exploitation. To learn more about how the bill impacts Kentucky, visit halrogers.house.gov.
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Earlier this week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill to fund the federal government through September 30, 2017. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) voted for the legislation that funds the nation's priorities, including critical efforts to combat the deadly drug abuse epidemic in Kentucky. "Great strides have been made in combatting drug abuse in southern and eastern Kentucky; however, still too many lives are lost each year to accidental overdoses," said Congressman Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "One person dies every ten minutes from a drug overdoes in America, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), so we must continue the multi-pronged approach in this life-saving mission to stop illegal drug sales, prevent abuse and properly treat addiction." The Omnibus fulfills the promise of bipartisan legislation enacted during the 114th Congress (the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, and the 21st Century Cures Act) by including an increase of $781 million over current levels for fighting the opioid epidemic. Specific examples of measures to help save lives and prevent generational drug abuse trends include: Drug Enforcement – the bill increases funding to $254 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program to assist federal, state, and local authorities clean up trafficking hot-spots, which will enable the Appalachian HIDTA to continue its work in southern and eastern Kentucky. The legislation also includes $2.1 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), a $23 million increase over 2016 enacted levels. $382 million is specifically allocated to combat the diversion of prescription drugs. In addition, $234 million is included for the National Guard’s Counter-drug program, which supports ongoing marijuana eradication efforts in the Daniel Boone National Forrest. $10 million is provided to support state and local law enforcement efforts to clean up methamphetamine labs, and $10 million is provided to support heroin task forces around the country. Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMP) – the legislation provides $14 million to implement and enhance PDMPs, which help doctors make good prescribing decision and investigators root out bad actors. Drug Courts – includes $103 million for the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help non-violent offenders struggling with addiction. An additional $7 million is included for Veterans Treatment Courts to help our men and women in uniform who are struggling with addiction, and $2 million will be available to train drug court judges around the country. Prevention and Treatment – the legislation provides $150 million increase for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and $1.25 million to help states implement model drug legislation. In addition, the bill appropriates $112 million for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to continue its Opioid Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention program and $56 million for Medication-Assisted Treatment grants. The bill also allocates $97 million to the Drug Free Communities Program, which provides funding to community-based groups seeking to prevent youth substance abuse. Finally, the legislation encourages HHS to facilitate training of healthcare professionals and paramedics and to increase access to emergency devices, like naloxone. To learn more about how the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill will impact Kentucky, visit halrogers.house.gov.
05.04.2017	I have a pre-existing condition. How does this bill affect me? Under our plan, insurance companies cannot deny you coverage based on pre-existing conditions. And your health status cannot affect your premiums, unless your state asks for and receives a waiver—a condition of which is the state having other protections in place for those with pre-existing conditions. Even if your state does obtain a waiver, so long as you’ve been continuously covered, you still cannot be charged more. And the bill provides added resources to help people in waiver states who have not been continuously covered to gain coverage. Bottom line, there are many levels of protection for those with pre-existing conditions in the legislation. I heard about the MacArthur amendment allowing states to waive protections for pre-existing conditions. If this happens, will I lose all my benefits? No. This amendment preserves protections for people with pre-existing conditions while giving states greater flexibility to lower premiums and stabilize the insurance market. To obtain a waiver, states will have to establish programs to serve people with pre-existing conditions. And no matter what, insurance companies cannot deny you coverage based on pre-existing conditions. And what about the Upton amendment?The Upton amendment provides an additional $8 billion for states seeking a waiver. These resources will allow people with pre-existing conditions who haven’t maintained continuous coverage to acquire affordable care. Are Members of Congress exempt from this provision?No. Members will not be exempt. This was initially included for technical reasons to comply with Senate rules, but the House is voting to fix this before voting on the AHCA. Why are you cutting women’s health services?We’re not. In fact, we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. Why are you voting to kick 24 million people off health care?We’re not. AHCA will ensure everyone has access to affordable, quality health care, but we’re just not forcing people to buy insurance. Moreover, that estimate failed to take into account other planned legislative and administrative actions, which will help bring down costs and expand coverage. ******** REFUNDABLE TAX CREDITS Refundable tax credits are an important component of the AHCA, designed to give people who don't receive health care at work the same tax benefits as those who do so they can purchase the kind of coverage that is right for their family. It equalizes the tax treatment of health care regardless of where you buy it and helps create a vibrant individual market. These credits are longstanding conservative policy goals. REFORMS MEDICAID One in three physicians are unwilling to accept new Medicaid patients. Unfortunately, Obamacare simply added more people to a broken system. The AHCA is a historic shift of power back to the states so that we can make it work for those who need it. It reforms Medicaid so that it is flexible and responsive to those it was created to serve. It prohibits states from expanding into the current broken Medicaid system. It maximizes state flexibility. It gives states the choice between a per capita allotment or a traditional block grant and provides the option for states to implement work requirements for Medicaid recipients. It ensures the rug isn’t pulled from underneath any able-bodied patient as he or she transitions to other coverage, like a plan purchased with refundable tax credits. EXPANDS HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) are tax-free health care savings accounts for Americans with high-deductible health plans. HSAs are critical for helping Americans save and spend their health care dollars more wisely. The AHCA would nearly double the amount Americans can contribute to their accounts, which will give greater choice and flexibility in purchasing coverage. Conservatives agree: HSAs must be a focal point of health care reform. PROTECTS PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS First and foremost, the bill contains numerous protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The law is clear: Under no circumstance can people be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. The latest draft contains two more layers of security for these individuals: The MacArthur amendment gives flexibility to states to tackle premium prices. However, there is a very strict process for obtaining that waiver. It will only be given to states with high-risk pools and other protections in place. For states seeking a waiver, the Upton amendment provides an additional $8 billion to allow people with pre-existing conditions who haven’t maintained continuous coverage acquire affordable care. RESTORES PRO-LIFE PRINCIPLES The AHCA defunds Planned Parenthood, the largest abortion provider in the country, for one year by blocking more than $500 million of federal dollars. It redirects the money to community health centers, which far outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. Let’s pass the American Health Care Act. After all, seven years of Obamacare is enough. SOURCE: speaker.gov
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement in conjunction with the passage of H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), by the U.S. House of Representatives: “Obamacare is rapidly collapsing and this bill is one of the first necessary steps to build a better, more reliable and affordable health care system. President Obama’s promises to keep your doctor, lower your medical costs, and increase your insurance options have all been broken. In fact, Obamacare’s implosion has left half of Kentuckians with only one insurance provider. Although access has expanded for some folks, far too many families in our region now have to choose between paying for insurance and putting groceries on the dinner table.“The American Health Care Act redirects the future of health care by repealing unaffordable taxes and eliminating the impossible mandates that set Obamacare on its destructive path. This bill is part of a multi-phase process, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to finalize a package that protects quality health care options while providing relief from Obamacare.”BACKGROUND ON AHCA AND OTHER OBAMACARE REFORM LEGISLATIONThe Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, led to skyrocketing premiums, fewer choices, and less access to quality care. The law’s price controls have created a cycle of rising premiums and falling enrollment, and average 2017 premiums may rise by as much as 47% in Kentucky.The American Health Care Act (AHCA) dismantles Obamacare’s taxes and mandate penalties, unwinds the law’s one-size-fits-all programs, and helps transfer control of health care back to states and the American people. Specifically, the bill: Repeals Obamacare’s individual and employer mandates and repeals tax increases associated with Obamacare, Provides a refundable tax credit for individuals (up to $4000) and families ($14,000) who do not get health insurance through their employer or the government, Nearly doubles the amount Americans can deduct from their taxes for medical expenses, Empowers States to lower premiums and expand options while maintaining key patient protections, Ensures patients with pre-existing conditions receive the care they need by prohibiting insurance companies from denying coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition, rescinding coverage based on a pre-existing condition, or raising premiums on individuals with pre-existing conditions who maintain continuous coverage, Establishes a $153 billion Federal Invisible Risk Sharing Program to subsidize coverage for older and sicker patients, which will further stabilize markets and lower premiums, Expands federal support for state-based maternity coverage and newborn care and mental health and substance use services, Repeals the provisions of Obamacare that subsidize abortion services and prohibits any future federal tax credits from subsidizing plans that cover elective abortion, and Increases contribution limits to Health Savings Accounts. The AHCA now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.In addition to the AHCA, the U.S. House of Representatives has also passed companion legislation to reform Obamacare. Together, H.R. 1101 and H.R. 372 give small businesses the power to negotiate lower health care costs and increase competition among health insurance companies to lower premiums. H.R. 1101, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, creates association health plans (AHPs) which will allow small businesses to band together across state lines and negotiate for lower health care costs for their employees. AHPs will increase the bargaining power of small businesses to purchase health insurance and level the playing field with large businesses and unions. It passed on March 22nd by a vote of 236 to 175. H.R. 372, the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act, applies federal antitrust laws to health insurance providers to increase competitiveness in the healthcare industry. Health insurance companies have been exempt from such regulation for 70 years, while health care providers and other industry participants have not. This has created a lack of competition in health insurance and has helped drive up cost. The legislation also passed on March 22nd by a vote of 416 to 7. Together, these bills will provide relief from Obamacare and ensure Kentuckians have access to quality, affordable heath care. Click here to learn more about the American Health Care Act
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY) are calling for the World Health Organization to prevent Mundipharma International, the international arm of Purdue Pharmaceuticals, from fueling a worldwide opioid epidemic. In a letter to World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Margaret Chan, Clark and Rogers detail how Purdue and its partners “helped spark a public health crisis in the United States that will take generations to fully repair” and how Mundipharma is now pursuing the same deadly marketing strategy internationally. The letter also emphasizes that Purdue’s misleading and aggressive marketing of the painkiller OxyContin set off America’s opioid crisis in the late 1990s. Clark and Rogers warn the World Health Organization that growing scrutiny and diminishing sales in the U.S. have led Purdue’s owners to move toward aggressively marketing OxyContin internationally, through Mundipharma, and urge the WHO to learn from America’s experience and rein in Mundipharma’s reckless and dangerous practices. The Massachusetts Democrat and Kentucky Republican represent communities with stark political differences, but share the common goal of overcoming the opioid crisis. Massachusetts reported nearly 2000 opioid-related deaths in 2016. Kentucky ranks 3rd in the nation in per capita overdose deaths. “Opioids kill 91 Americans every day, and parents across the country are hoping today isn’t the day they get the call that their child has overdosed,” said Clark. “Our country is gripped by an epidemic whose roots can be traced to Purdue’s insatiable bottom line,” said Clark. “We’re urging the international community not to allow one company’s greed and recklessness to create a global health crisis.” Purdue’s deceptive marketing of Oxycontin in the late 1990s ultimately led to federal drug misbranding charges and a $635 million judgement against the company. “Purdue’s heartless marketing practices, fueled by greed and corporate profits, are now threatening unsuspecting nations overseas. We’ve attended too many heartbreaking funerals for young addicts, witnessed too many babies shrieking in pain after being born to a drug-addicted mother, and comforted too many children now orphaned by this epidemic,” said Rogers, who also serves as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “We want to help other nations prevent the same tidal wave of overdoses that we have experienced in the U.S. My greatest concern is the lack of resources that other nations may have to provide necessary law enforcement, treatment, and education to combat a similar deadly overdose crisis." Full text of the letter can be found here.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the National Science Foundation's Noyce Teacher Scholarship award of nearly $1.2 million to Morehead State University (MSU), which will provide 34 scholarships, up to $10,000 for up to two years, for junior and senior MSUTeach students. The grant supports MSU's program "Preparing Secondary Teachers of Mathematics and Science in Rural Districts," aimed at recruiting undergraduate majors in biology, chemistry, earth science, mathematics, or physics to prepare them to become secondary science and mathematics teachers. The project is designed to increase the number of undergraduate STEM majors becoming secondary STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathmatics) teachers in the high-need districts of rural Eastern Kentucky. "The number of jobs available in STEM-related fields is skyrocketing, along with higher educational requirements to compete in those industries," said Congressman Hal Rogers. "These scholarships will give MSUTeach students a competitive edge in the rapidly growing STEM fields. I applaud MSU for recognizing a critical need for college students in Eastern Kentucky and providing a pathway for success that will also benefit local high school students in our region." As a condition of the acceptance of the scholarship, MSU Noyce Scholars agree to serve as a STEM teacher in a high-need local educational agency for two years, for each full-year of a scholarship received, to be fulfilled within eight years after completing the program. “Morehead State University has prepared teachers since its inception in 1880s. The Noyce Scholarship funding provides the opportunity for MSU to build on this tradition through our newly approved MSUTeach curriculum," said Dr. Edna O. Schack, co-director of MSUTeach. "Noyce Scholars will benefit from this solid mathematics and science content integrated with effective teaching methods. As part of this rigorous curriculum, MSU Noyce Scholars will practice teaching in carefully planned clinical experiences with our partner districts.” MSU will collaborate with Carter, Fleming, and Rowan County School Districts in Kentucky and the Bronx, New York New World High School. MSU Noyce Scholars will engage in the rigorous MSUTeach curriculum, a replication of the successful UTeach model integrating pedagogy with mathematics and science content. Additionally, Scholars will collaborate with secondary teachers and MSU faculty on designing and implementing a cross-cultural STEM Speaker Series for high school students. Select Noyce Scholars will participate in a one week onsite clinical experience with students, faculty, and staff of the New World High School. Beyond financial assistance, MSU Noyce Scholars will benefit from 1) the collegiality and educative effects of participating in a Noyce cohort, 2) participation in cross-cultural experiences to develop knowledge of economic and cultural challenges related to STEM development in high-need areas, and 3) the opportunity to become a leader in larger regional STEM initiatives. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported the STEM group that is projected to grow fastest from 2014 to 2024 is the mathematical science occupations group at 28.2 percent, compared with the average projected growth for all occupations of 6.5 percent. Applications for the Morehead State University Noyce Scholarships will be available in Fall 2017. For further information about MSUTeach, visit http://www.moreheadstate.edu/msuteach/.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for approving the fiscal year 2017 (FY17) Omnibus Appropriations bill. The nearly $1.2 trillion comprehensive spending bill will fund the federal government through September 30, 2017. The bipartisan legislation passed by a vote of 309 to 118 and now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. The FY17 Omnibus funds the nation's priorities, including: defense and national security operations, economic development, the fight against substance abuse and illegal drug trafficking, health care benefits for retired coal miners and their dependents, access to clean water, and our nation's energy security. The bill enhances border security with $911 million and boosts support for our men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces with more than $25 billion more than last year. The additional defense funding: Ramps up the complex fight against ISIS and other terrorist organizations; Increases U.S. military presence in European nations threatened by Russian aggression; and Gives U.S. troops their largest pay raise in six years. The bill also supports critical funding for programs that provide important services for the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, including: Historic funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), including $10 million for broadband development; Grant funding for coal communities, including $105 million to expand the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program to reclaim land for economic development and $30 million for the Economic Development Administration's Asstistance to Coal Mining Communities program; Language to block a study by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which would charge new fees to communities that utilize Lake Cumberland as a water source; and Life-saving support to combat the opioid epidemic through initiatives like Drug Courts, Drug-Free Communities Grants, the Kentucky National Guard's Counter-Drug Program, and law enforcement operations. Congressman Rogers gave the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives urging his colleagues to support the bill: "Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support this legislation and commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and Mrs. Lowey for a job well done. "Mr. Speaker, the most important point that I can make for many in this chamber, is that if you reject this omnibus spending bill, the alternative is a continuing resolution for the balance of the year, which will put into effect the spending priorities of the previous administration. The Obama plan will still be in effect if you reject this Omnibus bill. "This comprehensive bill responsibly funds key government programs through the rest of the fiscal year. As the battle against ISIS continues, funding for both defense and diplomacy must be a part of our national security framework. Along with strategic increases for the DoD, the Omnibus includes critical funding for the Department of State and Foreign Operations. "Protecting our diplomats abroad is a top priority, and the bill provides $6.1 billion. The legislation also upholds our commitments to key international allies, like Israel and Jordan, and establishes a new $100 million fund to support nations facing Russian aggression. "We continue funding for global health, humanitarian aid, and famine relief, including a new rapid respond fund for emerging infectious diseases. And the bill dedicates significant resources to stop drug trafficking along our southern border with robust counter-narcotic and law enforcement efforts in Mexico, Central America and Colombia. "No funds are provided for either the Green Climate Fund or the UN Panel on Climate Change; and funding for the UN is reduced by $640 million. "While national security is a key tenet of this legislation, the Omnibus also promotes economic growth at home – particularly in my Kentucky district. Coal country came under siege under President Obama, with an onslaught of job-killing regulations. Our communities are working hard to recover after losing nearly 12,000 mining jobs. "In addition to rolling back several anti-coal regulations, this bill permanently provides health care benefits to retired coal miners and their families. This gives the people who have powered our nation for generations the peace of mind they deserve. "The bill also provides Kentucky with $25 million to continue the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program, which creates jobs by reclaiming abandoned mine land sites for economic development. The Appalachian Regional Commission receives historic funding: with the $152 million appropriated, $10 million is dedicated to high-speed broadband deployment in our region. EDA is also provided with $30 million to revitalize the coalfields. "In addition to creating jobs, this bill builds on our progress to combat drug abuse. Like Operation UNITE in my district, we take a holistic approach to fund a comprehensive federal response. An increase of $781 million is provided for fighting the opioid epidemic—including treatment, prevention, and law enforcement. This bill will save lives. "Mr. Speaker, I urge a “yes” vote." Click the image to watch the Congressman Rogers' speech in support of the FY17 Omnibus bill Click here to download a summary of benefits for Kentucky in the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill.
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill that Congress will vote on later this week. The nearly $1.2 trillion comprehensive spending plan will fund the federal government through September 30. The bill includes language to prohibit the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from completing a Water Reallocation Study for Lake Cumberland. The Corps' study was scheduled to be complete by 2018 and would result in new fees for all surrounding communities that utilize the water, including unforseen rehabilitation costs for Wolf Creek Dam. Congressman Rogers has blocked funding for the study since it began in 2013. "I'm working to protect our small communities around Lake Cumberland from unaffordable fees that could bankrupt their small budgets," said Congressman Rogers. "Our communities use less than one percent of the water in Lake Cumberland and shouldn't be expected to foot the bill for future unknown rehabiliation projects on Wolf Creek Dam as a result. Several of our communities have accessed the water at Lake Cumberland for local citizens for many years without the burden of costly fees from unelected bureaucrats, and I intend to protect this resource." For more information about the 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill, visit halrogers.house.gov.
05.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a comprehensive federal spending plan this week to fund the federal government through September 30, 2017, the end of the fiscal year. The FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill provides nearly $1.2 trillion to address national priorities such as military defense, infrastructure and the opioid abuse epidemic; it also includes critical funding for retired coal miners' health benefits, economic development projects in coal mining communities and the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). Specifically, the bill includes a permanent fix for health care benefits for retired coal miners, their widows and other dependents. It also provides $105 million for a second round of funding for the Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) Pilot Program, which will enable participating states to reclaim AML sites in conjunction with economic development projects. Under the pilot, Kentucky will receive an additional $25 million in 2017. The Omnibus also includes $30 million for the Economic Development Administration to support coal communities and funds the ARC at historic levels. $152 million in ARC funding includes $10 million for high-speed broadband deployment in distressed central Appalachian communities. Finally, the legislation will help put miners back to work by taking important steps to help the coal industry rebound after eight years of job-killing regulations under President Obama. "Our coal communities and coal miners have suffered the heavy burden of financial insecurity for far too long," said Congressman Rogers. "Retired coal miners can now rest assured that their medical needs will be met, along with their wives and children. They worked long and hard to power this great nation and we should uphold our commitment to take care of them. Likewise, our coal mining communities in Kentucky are working diligently to rebuild after losing more than 13,000 mining jobs over the last eight years. This legislation will provide funding to boost economic development in our coalfields and create jobs where we need them the most." Congressman Rogers worked to secure $30 million in 2016 for Kentucky to implement the initial AML Pilot program. Projects funded in Eastern Kentucky include: The Appalachian Wildlife Center in Bell County; The Marion Branch Industrial Park in Pike County; A new Alternative Energy Manufacturing Center in Harlan County; Impact Outdoor Adventures in Clay County; and Manufacturing training at e-KAMI, the e-Kentucky Advanced Manufacturing Institute in Paintsville. The Omnibus rolls back Obama-era regulations that would stop the United States from investing in coal-fired power plants in developing countries or redefining “fill material,” and also supports recent Executive Orders issued by President Trump to review the Waters of the United States Rule and the Clean Power Plan, among other onerous environmental regulations. The bill slashes funding for the Environmental Protection Agency by $81.4 million, capping the agency’s staffing at 1989 levels, and advances an “all of the above” energy strategy to make coal a cleaner burning and more efficient fuel – funding Department of Energy Fossil Energy Research programs at $668 million ($36 million above fiscal year 2016). Click here for more information about the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill.
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after Congress passed a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) (H.J. Res. 99) to avoid a government shutdown and extend health benefits for retired coal miners and their beneficiaries. "We are just days away from finalizing a comprehensive package to fund federal government operations for the rest of fiscal year 2017, and this extension will allow us to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. The bill also extends the critical health benefits for our retired coal miners and their widows while we work toward a more permanent fix. It's our retired coal miners who powered this Nation for generations and we aren't going to let them down on their health care needs." The CR extends funding through May 5, 2017 and maintains the federal budget cap level of $1.07 trillion.
04.27.2017	SOMERSET, Ky. -- High school students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District can participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition by submitting artwork to Congressman Hal Rogers' offices in Somerset, Hazard or Prestonsburg by Friday, May 5. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year and the winning artist will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D.C. for an annual awards ceremony with winning artists from other congressional districts across the country. The winning artist may also be eligible for a college scholarship. "We have incredibly talented young artists right here in southern and eastern Kentucky, and this competition puts their work in the national spotlight," said Congressman Rogers. "I take great pride in seeing the winning artwork from our region on display in the nation's Capitol where more than three million people visit every year." For competition guidelines and to download a student release form, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional and framed work cannot exceed 26" x 26" x 4" or 15 pounds. Unframed artwork will be accepted in the congressional office, however, the winning artwork must be framed by the artist before being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building. Last year, the winning artist was Jannah Halbert from Allen Central High School. Jannah's oil painting, "Isla Paraiso," depicted an island beach landscape with carefully executed detail and texture. For more information, contact Danielle Smoot in Congressman Rogers' Somerset district office at 606-679-8346 or danielle.smoot@mail.house.gov. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. For information about the annual competition, visit halrogers.house.gov.
04.26.2017	SOMERSET, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) invites the public to take a simple step in combatting the drug abuse epidemic on Saturday, April 29 by removing old or unwanted prescriptions in your medicine cabinet and disposing them at a safe local collection site in southern and eastern Kentucky. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) designated this Saturday as the 13th National Take-Back Day from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Thanks to UNITE Community Coalitions, every county in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District has a Med-Return Box located at a local Sheriff's office or city police department for safe disposal. Every day in America, 91 people die from an opioid overdose, according the Centers for Disease and Control. And recent studies have shown about 80 percent of prescription opioid pills are either given to or stolen from family members or friends of the user. "Cleaning out your medicine cabinet is an easy way for you to help fight drug abuse, to make sure that family members, friends and other visitors don't illegally take your prescription painkillers," said Congressman Rogers. "Thanks to the DEA, you can safely get rid of unwanted prescriptions and keep them out of the hands of potential abusers." To kick-off the national event on Wedneday, Congressman Rogers participated in the DEA's Take-Back Day on Capitol Hill. The DEA and its partners have received and dipsosed of more than 7.1 million pounds of prescription pills since the awareness campaign began more than a decade ago. Last April, Operation UNITE reported more than a ton of unwanted medications was collected from 42 dropbox locations across southern and eastern Kentucky. In addition to the UNITE Coalition Med-Return locations, you can search additional safe local drop-off spots on the DEA's website. The take-back service is free and anonymous.
04.18.2017	ATLANTA, Ga. -- The 6th National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit expands with an international focus on the influx of illegal drugs flowing from foreign countries into the United States. The second morning of the summit, attended by nearly 2,400 people, kicked off with a keynote address from Assistant Secretary of the U.S. State Department's Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcment Affairs (INL), Ambassador William Brownfield, who warned that there is no effective solution to our country's epidemic that does not involve an international component. “At a time when the United States is facing our first full-blown drugs crisis in years, with the roots of this epidemic starting far beyond our U.S. borders, the Atlanta Summit provides a timely opportunity to discuss how we can more effectively work – both at home and abroad – to confront this deadly challenge,” said Assistant Secretary William R. Brownfield, Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, U.S. Department of State. Ambassador Brownfield reported a rise in heroin production in Mexico and Afghanistan, while cocaine production is on the rise in Colombia. Meanwhile, China recently banned the manufacturing and sales of some variations of the lethal drug, fentanyl, which has caused a rapid increase of overdose deaths in parts of the United States. U.S. Senator Ed Markey (D-Mass.) shared his concern for the rapid rise of deadly fentanyl overdoses in his home state of Massachusetts where fatal overdoses from the drug jumped from 900 in 2015 to 1,500 in 2016. He said fentanyl, known as "white china" on the black market, is 50 times more potent than heroin. “We know the opioid epidemic does not discriminate on the basis of age, gender, race, ethnicity, or economic status," said Sen. Markey. "Whether you are in Lexington, Massachusetts or Lexington, Kentucky, the tragedy of prescription drug, heroin and fentanyl overdoses is impacting all of us. We must stand united to prevent and end this crisis of opioid addiction in our communities now and for all generations to come.” More than half a million people died from drug overdoses from 2000 to 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). To help address the nation's addiction crisis, three members of the U.S. House of Representatives served as panelists to discuss federal legislation designed to curb the tide of drug abuse across the country. Last year, Congress passed the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act to implement funding and solutions for law enforcement, treatment, recovery, prevention and education. "Through the combined implementation of CARA and Cures, we are truly attcking the drug epidemic from every angle," said Congressman Hal Rogers, founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "These laws are comprehensive in scope, aiming to boost critical medical research, grants for community prevention strategies, funding for prescription drug monitoring programs, naloxone dispensing, treatment and intervention, as well as providing critical care for pregnant mothers who battle addiction and infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome." Panelists advocated for enhanced and interconnected prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) to end "doctor shopping" among addicts who try to fill opioid prescriptions at multiple pharmacies. “As the only pharmacist in Congress, I have been blessed to watch prescription medications save lives,” said U.S. Rep. Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA). “At the same time, I have watched as addiction to the them ruined careers, families, and lives. Abuse and addiction to prescription opioids and heroin has become an epidemic in our nation and something needs to be done. That is why the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit is so important to discuss and create solutions. Together, we can and will overcome this crisis.” Congressman Pat Meehan from Pennsylvania shared his concern for addiction among young athletes, improving access to Veteran Treatment Courts and a new partnership between nurses and families for children born to drug-addicted mothers. Congressman Meehan championed the John Thomas Decker Act to help educate injured student-athletes about the addictive nature of opioids. "A close family friend lost his son to heroin last year. He was a Cornell lacrosse player who suffered a knee injury and was prescribed prescription painkillers to help manage the pain after surgery, which led to addiction and eventually to heroin use and a criminal record," said Rep. Meehan, who introduced the bill in memory of Decker last year. "Too many kids and student athletes succumb to a heroin habit that started with a prescription from a doctor. We must educate parents and students about this danger." The legislation would require the CDC to study youth athlete opioid education and make public recommendations on dangers for students, coaches and parents. The National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit continues through Thursday. For more information, visit nationalrxdrugabusesummit.com. Left to Right: Congressman Carter, Congressman Meehan, Congressman Rogers INL Ambassador William Brownfield Sen. Ed Markey
04.17.2017	ATLANTA (7-17-17) – Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-5th) and Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin issued challenges for attendees of the 6th annual National Rx Drug Abuse & Heroin Summit to be passionate, learn from one another, and share promising initiatives with others in their communities. “This week we’re dealing in hope,” Rogers stated. “We’re here to do more than talk. We’re here to act.” Rogers added that their goal for the Summit should be “to find lifesaving solutions that can be shared across state lines.” “How badly do each and every one of you want to fix the problem?” Bevin asked attendees. “You have to have a level of boldness and conviction.” The Summit, which began Monday evening, has drawn record attendance of nearly 2,400 people representing 48 states, the District of Columbia, and three other countries (Canada, China and Australia). Those attending – which include many of the nation’s top researchers, advocates, policy-makers and law enforcement officials – use the conference to strategize ways to prevent and respond to this country’s opioid epidemic. Rogers, founding Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, noted how the holistic approach pioneered by Operation UNITE (Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education), and expanded through the Rx Summit, has become a model for national initiatives. “CARA (the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act) really institutionalized what you are doing,” Rogers cited as an example. “It can be an answer for your community.” Bevin spoke proudly about Kentucky’s efforts to address the crisis from multiple fronts, and listed several “commonsense” initiatives that would have an immediate impact. Kentucky has been the epicenter for the explosion of opioid abuse and has a drug overdose rate more than 1.5 times higher than the national average, based on statistics from the Kentucky Office of Drug Control Policy. Rates in several counties are triple the national average. “We must continue working together to find solutions to Kentucky’s opioid problem,” Bevin said. “We don’t have the luxury of ignoring this drug epidemic. Our energy and resources must be focused on shutting down the on ramps to addiction. Failure is not an option.” Among the “ideas” proffered by Bevin were: • Limit the number of days some opioids could be prescribed, and provide better training for doctors – including requiring they spend time in a drug rehabilitation center. (“That would be a real education,” he said.) • Rethink using “pain” as the “Fifth Vital Sign” when treating patients. (Last year, there were enough painkillers prescribed to give every man, woman and child in Kentucky 79 pills, Bevin said.) • More proactively interceding to help pregnant women with an addiction in order to reduce the costly impact of neonatal abstinence syndrome. Author Sam Quinones, who wrote Dreamland: The True Tale of America's Opiate Epidemic, was scheduled to keynote the opening session, but a medical emergency forced him to cancel his appearance. The Summit, which continues through April 20, is the largest national collaboration of federal, state and local professionals seeking to address prescription drug abuse, misuse and diversion. Additional highlights and information on the Rx Summit also can be found at http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org, www.facebook.com/RxSummit/<http://www.facebook.com/RxSummit/> and on Twitter at @RxSummit. ####
04.07.2017	ATLANTA, Ga. -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) will keynote the sixth annual National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, the nation's largest collaborative meeting to address the complex drug abuse epidemic, on April 17-20 at the Westin Peachtree Plaza in Atlanta, Georgia. Rogers will join several congressional colleagues and federal leaders to discuss the next steps to combat the opioid crisis, including Dr. Tom Price, Secretary of the U.S. Health and Human Services Administration; U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, MD, MBA; Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse; U.S. Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA); U.S. Rep. Pat Meehan (R-PA); U.S. Rep. John Larson (D-CT); U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA); Patrick Kennedy, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives; and Newt Gingrich, former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. "We are in a race against the clock in this life-saving mission to prevent drug abuse, end illicit drug trade and improve access to treatment and recovery options across the country," said Congressman Rogers. "Each year, this summit opens the door to innovative solutions that can be replicated in rural and urban areas alike. It also brings together federal leaders and professionals to spur key policy changes to implement better practices for law enforcement, medical professionals and many other industries." In 2015, approximately 142 Americans died from a drug overdose every day, totaling more than 52,000 people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). As co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, Congressman Rogers has worked to ensure the best policies and federal legislation are developed to advance the ongoing battle against addiction, such as the recent Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act that became law last year. "What makes this summit unique is the exchange of information and ideas across industries and public sectors. Whether you are a prescriber, a narcotics law enforcement officer, a community leader or passionate advocate for recovery, this is an opportunity to share challenges and effective solutions," said Congressman Rogers. "The only way to beat back the epidemic that plagues thousands of individuals and families every year, is to maintain this holistic, multi-faceted approach. It has proven to be a successful mission for Operation UNITE in Eastern Kentucky and we plan to continue sharing their efforts on this national stage." Click here to learn more about the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit. MEDIA NOTE: To obtain credentials for the Rx Summit, contact Danielle Smoot at danielle.smoot@mail.house.gov or 606-679-8346.
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - - Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers testified before the House Natural Resources Committee in support of the RECLAIM Act of 2017. Rogers sponsored the legislation that aims to accelerate $1 billion in available funding in the Abandoned Mine Reclamation (AML) Fund over the next five years to revitalize coal communities hit hardest by the downturn of the coal industry. He made the following remarks before the subcommittee: "Chairman Bishop, Ranking Member Grijalva, Chairman Gosar, Ranking Member Lowenthal, and Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to come before you today in support of a bill I sponsored, known as the RECLAIM Act of 2017. "Chairman Bishop, I am particularly grateful to you and your staff, who have worked closely with me over the last year to perfect the bill and prepare it for consideration by the Committee. "I would also like to thank the cosponsors of the RECLAIM Act in the House, as well as Senators McConnell and Capito for taking the lead on this important effort in the Senate. "I am pleased that this bill has enjoyed bipartisan support in both the 114 th and 115 th Congress, and I am hopeful that we can maintain this nonpartisan spirit as the bill makes its way through the House. "In the year since the RECLAIM Act was first introduced, I have worked alongside this Committee to incorporate input from stakeholders from all over the country. We sought out the opinion of States, advocacy groups and Members of Congress from coal country, who want to see this bill through to the finish line. Their feedback has been a critical part of moving this bill forward and we appreciate their support. "Mr. Chairman, I sponsored the RECLAIM Act to help revitalize coal communities all across the nation that have been devastated by the downturn of the coal industry. "In my District in Eastern Kentucky, we have lost over 11,600 coal mining jobs over the last 8 years. Families that relied on good paying jobs in the mines are now going bankrupt. Our small counties that once received sizable revenues from coal severance tax dollars are struggling to provide basic services. "These are hardworking people who are looking for opportunities, and the RECLAIM Act stands to create thousands of good paying jobs in the communities that need it most. "The RECLAIM Act will do two things: one, reclaim abandoned mine lands to clean up our environment; and two, spur economic development on that land to reuse it for job creation and business development. "One of the greatest things about the RECLAIM Act, is that it doesn’t cost taxpayers a dime. "There is approximately $2.4 billion in the unappropriated balance of the Abandoned Mine Lands Fund that remains untouched. This bill will release $1 billion of that available money to states, like Kentucky, that have been hit the hardest by the downturn in the coal industry. "While RECLAIM will undoubtedly be an economic and environmental boon to Appalachian states, each and every coal producing state across the country actually stands to benefit from this bill. Under this program, $200 million will be distributed to States and tribes annually for five years for the purpose of cleaning up abandoned mine land. $195 million will be distributed to uncertified states, while certified states and tribes will be eligible to compete for $5 million in grants each year. "States and local governments should leverage these dollars to secure other sources of public and private funding for the development of these sites. A municipal entity could secure funding from the State or a federal agency to lay a water line, create hiking trails, help a small business grow their footprint or attract new industry. The possibilities are endless. "I am so confident in the revitalizing potential of the RECLAIM Act because it follows the successful implementation of the AML Pilot Project, which was enacted in the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. "The $90 million program, spearheaded in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, was created to pilot the concepts inherent in this bill: providing coal communities with grants to reclaim abandoned mine lands with economic development purposes in mind, create new job opportunities and stimulate the local economy. "The AML Pilot program has already allowed these three States to break ground on dozens of new projects. Some of these projects include: a wildlife recreational trail and education center in Kentucky an agriculture training program for veterans in West Virginia and a botanic gardens project in Pennsylvania "The RECLAIM Act will build on the momentum generated by the pilot and make countless new job-creating projects a reality. This bill represents a real investment in coal country – one that will provide much needed resources to clean up the environment, create jobs and strengthen these communities from the ground up. "I look forward to working with the committee to move this bill forward, and I thank you for your support. I yield back." For more information about the RECLAIM Act of 2017, visit halrogers.house.gov.
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers invited Nancy Hale, President and CEO of Operation UNITE to testify before the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) about the importance of continuing the fight to save lives and combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic. "Tragically, our commonwealth has been the epicenter for the explosion of opioid abuse: The drug overdose rate in Kentucky currently is more than 1.5 times higher than the national average. Rates in several counties are triple the national average," said Hale. In 2015, more than 52,000 Americans died from a drug overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Mrs. Hale shared details about Operation UNITE's multi-faceted approach as a national model for success. "Congressman Rogers and other local leaders feared that if we did not take swift and decisive action, an entire generation would have been wiped out," said Hale. "Operation UNITE pioneered a holistic approach that has become a model for other states and the nation. Through collaborative partnerships, UNITE’s progress in our 32-county region is evident. Fourteen years later, more than 100,000 youth have participated in UNITE’s programs, tens of thousands of community members have volunteered, and more than 4,000 people have entered treatment using a UNITE voucher." Mrs. Hale's testimony was an important part of the LHHS Subcommittee's budget hearing for federal funding in the coming year. "It is important to share success stories with other leaders across the country to provide proof that federal funding is needed to continue the life-saving efforts of programs, like UNITE, and replicate their holistic efforts across the country to help fight illicit drug sales, improve education and prevention, and increase access to treatment and recovery nationwide," said Congressman Rogers. To learn more about Operation UNITE, visit operationunite.org Click here to watch the full hearing.
03.28.2017	Rep. Rogers' Statement: Trump’s Executive Order on Energy is a Win for Kentucky Coal WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order “Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth,” which will reverse President Obama’s job-killing agenda in the energy sector. “For generations, the people of southern and eastern Kentucky and coalfields across the country, worked hard to produce the coal that fueled affordable American energy. Unfortunately, President Obama wanted to keep coal in the ground and ignore one of our greatest energy resources, sending thousands of coal miners to unemployment lines and shuttering hundreds of coal-fired power plants nationwide. President Trump’s executive order is a declaration that the War on Coal is over and it’s time to generate energy in the coalfields once again.” Yesterday, Congressman Rogers and Senator McConnell filed the bipartisan RECLAIM Act of 2017 in the U.S. House and Senate to accelerate $1 billion in available funding in the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund over the next five years to revitalize coal communities hit hardest by the downturn of the coal industry. To read more about the RECLAIM Act, visit halrogers.house.gov.
03.27.2017	Bipartisan RECLAIM Act of 2017 Introduced for 115th Congress Senator McConnell, Rep. Rogers lead bicameral effort for U.S. coalfields WASHINGTON, DC (March 27, 2017) – Today, Congressional leaders united across the aisle and the Capitol Dome to reintroduce the bipartisan RECLAIM Act. The legislation aims to accelerate $1 billion in available funding in the Abandoned Mine Reclamation (AML) Fund over the next five years to revitalize coal communities hit hardest by the downturn of the coal industry. The RECLAIM Act: Revitalizing the Economy of Coal Communities by Leveraging Local Activities and Investing More, was filed today in both chambers by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-Pa.), Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV.), Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.) and Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (R-Pa.). As the lead sponsor in the Senate, Leader McConnell worked diligently to ensure the bill focuses on reclamation of the nation’s remaining six million acres of abandoned mine land, while also enabling economic development on those sites through agency support from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). “I thank Congressman Hal Rogers for his leadership, and I look forward to continuing our efforts to bring relief to Kentucky’s struggling coal communities through the RECLAIM Act. By working with local leaders and stakeholders, we will be able to provide additional support for vital environmental reclamation, economic development, and job training in Appalachia,” said Senator McConnell. “After suffering eight years of job losses in the coalfields, Kentucky families and communities are in need, and this bill would provide additional resources to these regions. The RECLAIM Act of 2017 would build upon the successful pilot program that Congressman Rogers and I championed to bring assistance to coal communities, and I am proud to sponsor this legislation in the Senate.” Congressman Hal Rogers led robust conversations in the U.S. House over the last year to ensure the revised RECLAIM Act gives each state the flexibility they need to utilize available funding through a fair and transparent process. “Over the last eight years, we’ve lost more than 13,000 coal mining jobs in Kentucky alone, and through this bill, we have an incredible opportunity to make sure that our coal producing states can access funding that is readily available to restore our land and revive our economy,” said Congressman Rogers. “I applaud Senate Leader McConnell for leading the charge in the Senate to help this worthy bill make headway in the new Congress.” While the Department of Interior’s AML program has distributed over $8 billion to these communities for reclamation and other purposes since 1977, approximately $2.4 billion currently remains in the AML Fund’s existing, unappropriated balance. This bill will release $1 billion from the fund to stimulate new Abandoned Mine Land cleanup and economic development projects where it is needed the most. “It is no secret that coal communities in West Virginia have suffered significant economic damage after eight years of harmful anti-coal policies,” said Senator Capito. “Strengthening these distressed regions, and creating an environment where job creation and business investment can thrive is one of my top priorities. The RECLAIM Act will help fund local projects that have the potential to help the region’s economy recover. I’m proud to join with my colleagues to introduce this important legislation.” Under the plan, $200 million will be distributed to participating states annually for five years for the reclamation of priority AML sites, which in turn will empower States and Indian tribes to work with local communities to identify and fund economic development projects on AML sites. “The coal-mining industry is vital to the history, character, and economy of Northeastern Pennsylvania. The decline of coal production impacted families whose livelihoods depended on these jobs, benefits, and pensions,” said Congressman Cartwright. “We must also address the often devastating environmental legacy of abandoned mines. Addressing abandoned mine sites and utilizing the reclaimed land for economic development will improve our environment, create jobs, and reinvigorate coal-mining communities. I have appreciated working with Congressman Rogers on this important bill for the past year, and I believe the bill introduced today goes a long way towards addressing the needs of communities affected by abandoned mines. I look forward to working with my colleagues to continue to improve the language as it moves through the legislative process over the coming weeks.” “The downturn in coal has decimated communities across Appalachia and hurt thousands of hardworking miners and their families. Our towns, counties and states need the resources to rebuild, diversify our economy, attract new employers, create jobs, and give hope to the people who call Appalachia home,” said Congressman Jenkins. “The RECLAIM Act will spur a new era of investment and revitalization in West Virginia and beyond. I commend Congressman Rogers, Leader McConnell, and my fellow cosponsors for their passion for helping Appalachia and their commitment to getting our economy moving again.” The RECLAIM Act follows the successful implementation of the AML Pilot Project, which was enacted in the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The $90 million pilot – spearheaded in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia – provided coal communities with grants to reclaim abandoned mine lands with economic development purposes in mind, create new job opportunities and stimulate the local economy. “The AML Fund can provide resources for hard-hit coal communities to refuel their local economies. This funding will support reclamation projects that can create jobs in areas where jobs are much needed,” said Congressman Griffith. “Job creation and economic growth will bring much needed relief to Southwest Virginia and throughout Appalachia, where thousands of coal and coal-related jobs have been lost from the regulatory onslaught on the coal industry.” The RECLAIM Act requires the public to be notified during the project planning process and be given the opportunity to comment at public meetings near proposed project sites. “The RECLAIM Act is critical to Pennsylvania, especially the 5th Congressional District, which is home to more abandoned mine sites than any other place in the country,” said Congressman Thompson. “Ensuring that we have adequate resources to clean up these locations will provide great economic and environmental benefits, especially to our watersheds and streams. I am pleased to be leading this effort with Rep. Rogers and look forward to working in tandem with Pennsylvania’s advocates to move this bill through the legislative process.” The RECLAIM Act requires the Secretary of the Interior Department to report to Congress about all RECLAIM projects and the resulting economic benefits. #####
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) released the following statement regarding President Trump's budget proposal. “While we have a responsibility to reduce our federal deficit, I am disappointed that many of the reductions and eliminations proposed in the President’s skinny budget are draconian, careless and counterproductive. In particular, the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has a long-standing history of bipartisan support in Congress because of its proven ability to help reduce poverty rates and extend basic necessities to communities across the Appalachian region. Today, nearly everyone in the region has access to clean water and sewer, the workforce is diversifying, educational opportunities are improving and rural technology is finally advancing to 21st Century standards. But there is more work to be done in these communities, and I will continue to advocate for sufficient funding for ARC and similar programs, like the Economic Development Administration. “We will certainly review this budget proposal, but Congress ultimately has the power of the purse. As the full budget picture emerges in the coming weeks, I am optimistic that we can work with the Administration to responsibly fund the federal government, including those agencies which serve as vital economic lifelines in rural parts of the country that are still working to overcome substantial challenges.” #####
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) released the following statement regarding President Trump's budget proposal. “While we have a responsibility to reduce our federal deficit, I am disappointed that many of the reductions and eliminations proposed in the President’s skinny budget are draconian, careless and counterproductive. In particular, the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has a long-standing history of bipartisan support in Congress because of its proven ability to help reduce poverty rates and extend basic necessities to communities across the Appalachian region. Today, nearly everyone in the region has access to clean water and sewer, the workforce is diversifying, educational opportunities are improving and rural technology is finally advancing to 21st Century standards. But there is more work to be done in these communities, and I will continue to advocate for sufficient funding for ARC and similar programs, like the Economic Development Administration. “We will certainly review this budget proposal, but Congress ultimately has the power of the purse. As the full budget picture emerges in the coming weeks, I am optimistic that we can work with the Administration to responsibly fund the federal government, including those agencies which serve as vital economic lifelines in rural parts of the country that are still working to overcome substantial challenges.” #####
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, Chairman House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations released the following statement regarding President Trump's proposed budget cuts. “The United States has a vital role to play in advancing democracy, protecting the innocent, helping the displaced and vulnerable, and offering diplomatic solutions to crises, unrest, and other challenges abroad. While I am pleased that the President’s budget signals that we need an aggressive plan to fight ISIS, I also believe the approach needs to be comprehensive in scope – including not just military engagement, but also the full and responsible use of all diplomatic tools at our disposal. Once the full budget picture emerges in the weeks ahead, I look forward to working with Secretary of State Tillerson and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the necessary resources are available to fulfill these goals.” #####
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY), has met with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to discuss the State Department's funding challenges and opportunities for the next fiscal year. Chairman Rogers made the following statement on the meeting: "In meeting with Secretary Tillerson, I was impressed by his experience and leadership. We agree that investment in important international diplomatic and security programs is essential to encouraging peace and stability in critical areas around the globe and to our safety here at home. The United States has a vital role to play in advancing democracy, protecting the innocent, and offering diplomatic solutions to crisis, unrest, violence and economic challenges. We stand side by side in our commitment to supporting important programs and activities that advance these goals. "We need an aggressive plan to fight ISIS and any other enemy that wishes us harm. Secretary Tillerson and I agree that this requires a comprehensive approach, including not just military engagement, but also the full and responsible use of all diplomatic tools at our disposal. While the full budget picture has yet to emerge, we intend to work closely together over the next cycle to ensure that the necessary resources are available to fulfill these goals." #####
03.13.2017	PAINTSVILLE, Ky. – Federal, state and local leaders met in Paintsville, Kentucky on Monday to collaborate with information technology industry experts to explore opportunities to connect Silicon Valley to “Silicon Holler,” an identity coined by Congressman Hal Rogers to describe the growing high-tech workforce in Eastern Kentucky. SOAR (Shaping Our Appalachian Region) co-chairs Congressman Rogers (R-KY) and Governor Matt Bevin (R-KY) co-hosted the innovative event with Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and Interapt CEO Ankur Gopal on the campus of Big Sandy Community and Technical College. The event featured special guests Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA), who represents Silicon Valley, along with industry leaders from Apple, Amazon and Google. “Silicon Valley is the famed epicenter of innovation and technology in America, so there is no one better situated to help us advance our mission to build Silicon Holler than those who work in the trenches every day,” said Congressman Rogers. “We have the best workforce in the country, so we want to find opportunities in Silicon Valley that we can build upon right here in Eastern Kentucky.” “I am grateful for the men and women who came to Paintsville today from across America to brainstorm what our future will be. The people in the room are the true work force development pioneers in Kentucky,” said Gov. Bevin. “If we can train people how to code and develop software applications in other parts of the world, why not right here in the Commonwealth? We are confident that we have what it takes to do the high-level work required in Silicon Valley and beyond.” Interapt recently launched TechHire East Kentucky (TEKY) to train former coal miners and others across the region how to code. The first pilot class attracted 1,600 applicants, showing the desire for new high-tech jobs in Eastern Kentucky is great. The first class of 30 graduated from Interapt, proving they are capable of the rigorous education and training required. "We had so much success with the first graduating class, that Interapt is proud to announce we will be doing a second cohort. We will begin accepting applications for our second class this spring," said Gopal. "We're teaching next generation business and software skills in Eastern Kentucky, and our graduations have the foundations to start a successful software career at Interapt. I am very proud of the dedication our team has exemplified in meeting the rigor of the training program. By showing the capabilities of our graduates to learn next generation skills on a national stage, we hope to recruit more opportunities by creating new partnerships with Silicon Valley." A roundtable discussion with over a dozen participants prompted questions aimed at filling needs in Silicon Valley with the workforce in Eastern Kentucky, and how to build upon the success at Interapt. "Silicon Valley has had incredible success in building and supporting a tech-centric workforce. Such innovation and economic growth should not be limited to a single region of the country," said Congressman Khanna. “I look forward to returning to Silicon Valley to share the success happening right here in Eastern Kentucky.” The U.S. Department of Labor estimates nearly two out of three college graduates in 2020 will have the skills needed to work in newly formed technology jobs. A shortage of highly educated talent, combined with substantial job losses within traditional manufacturing industries, has created a new avenue for workforce training and economic development in rural communities. For those reasons, the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has invested in TEKY to help continue training the workforce in Eastern Kentucky. “Innovative workforce development initiatives like TEKY make Appalachia ready to competitively participate in the technology sectors and accelerate changes in our economy,”said Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. “These are great investment opportunities for the region and for the country.” Workforce development initiatives are one of several goals defined by the SOAR initiative to shape a better future in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. “SOAR’s mission is to expand job creation, enhance regional opportunity, spur innovation, and improve quality of life,” said Jared Arnett, Executive Director of SOAR. “This new partnership with Silicon Valley is the next step in our journey to diversify the economy in Eastern Kentucky and expand our horizons. For more information about applying for TEKY 2.0, visit Interapt.com. #####
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) applauds House passage of the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations conference report. He made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the $577.9 billion Defense spending bill, which provides a pay raise to U.S. troops, improves military readiness, invests in new aircraft and ships, and boosts efforts to defeat terrorist groups, like ISIS. The legislation also continues support for the National Guard Counter Drug program, which has been instrumental to marijuana eradication effots in Kentucky, with $234 million. The measure passed 371-48 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. "Thank you Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on your assumption of the chairmanship of the full committee and for putting this bill together when you chaired the subcommittee on defense. This bill certainly represents the outcome of many hard choices, it prioritizes funding where our troops need it most. It wisely invests in readiness, training, maintenance and the procurement of new equipment and technology to ensure that our troops are prepared for the tasks before them. Moreover, H.R. 1301 supports our efforts to defeat ISIS alongside our allies in the region, as well as our continued focus on deterring Russian aggression. "I am also pleased that this bill takes care of our troops and their families at home, by granting them a long awaited 2.1% pay rise. Time and again, our service members put themselves in harm’s way and respond to the myriad threats facing our nation. This pay raise is one small way for us to honor their dedication and willingness to serve. "As the threats we face continue to become more unpredictable, we must provide our troops with the tools they need to win in uncertain times. This bill goes a long way toward restoring the shortfalls in manpower and readiness that our military has endured in recent years. In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me call attention again to Will Smith, who has been clerk of this committee for six years, served as my chief of staff in my private office for many years before. This is likely his last appropriations bill on the floor to help manage and put together, and so I want to say to Will and to all of you, what a great amount of service he rendered the nation with a true Kentucky attitude. Will, we owe you a lot, thank you for your service, you've been great, we wish you god speed. I yield back."For a bill summary, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394777 For text of the legislation, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.02.17_defense_-_fy_2017_appropriations_bill.pdf For the Explanatory Statement, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.02.17_defense_-_fy_2017_appropriations_bill_-_explanatory_statement.pdf VIDEO: Rogers' Floor Speech on FY17 Defense Spending Bill #####
02.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress: “President Trump delivered an optimistic vision for jobs in America, a stronger national defense, and a restoration of power to the American people. His determination to create jobs resonates at home in Eastern Kentucky where we’ve lost more than 11,600 coal mining jobs over the last eight years. Together, the President and the Republican-led 115th Congress are committed to keeping our promises by replacing the job-killing regulations of the Obama Administration with pro-growth economic policies to reinvigorate the American workforce. I believe our best days are ahead of us, and it’s time to build upon the renewed spirit of hope in our country and unite together to pave the way for a brighter future.” ####
02.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive order to review the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “I applaud President Trump for his determination to roll back this extreme power grab by the Obama administration. The WOTUS rule would give unelected bureaucrats the authority to hand out costly fines for any unapproved dirt-moving activity — from farming to private land construction. This formal review is the first step to cut through the red tape currently restricting our nation’s miners, farmers, small business owners and hard working Americans.” Last year, Rogers voted for S.J. Res. 22, a joint resolution disapproving of a rule redefining Waters of the United States under the Clean Water Act, in an effort to block the rule and prohibit any new rules with similar intent. In 2015, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay against the rule. #####
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) voted for a resolution to overturn the Obama Administration's late attempt to funnel funding to Planned Parenthood, the nation's largest abortion provider. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the resolution, H.J. Res. 43, disapproving of the Obama Administration's rule that prevents states from eliminating abortion providers from Title X grant distribution. "Planned Parenthood performs a third of a million abortions every year and receives half a billion taxpayer dollars annually. H.J. Res 43 is a pro-life step in the right direction, empowering each state to prevent taxpayer dollars from being used for this purpose," said Congressman Rogers. "Instead, this legislation protects women's health by allowing states to redirect those dollars to facilities that preserve the gift of life and health."A GAO report in 2015 indicated Planned Parenthood received $201 million over a three year period through the Title X program. In 1970, Title X funding was authorized to provide family planning services to low income women. However, the Obama Administration's final rule in December 2016 forced states to provide Title X funding to abortion providers as well. This resolution returns flexibility to the states, allowing them to direct funding to all local health departments, hospitals, federally qualified health centers and family planning centers, eliminating any pressure to fund abortion providers. Rogers also voted for the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 7), prohibiting taxpayer dollars from being used to fund abortions through government programs, like Medicaid. The bill passed the House last month and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
02.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) applauds the approval of a competitive federal contract to Patriot Industries, Inc. in Monticello, Kentucky. The company earned a military contract to manufacture dry suits for the U.S. Coast Guard, which will create 15 new jobs. "We have the best workforce in the country and this new contract is proof of the quality manufacturing that allows companies in our region, like Patriot Industries, to compete for federal work," said Congressman Rogers. "Patriot Industries has been a trusted partner in southern Kentucky for nearly two decades, and I applaud their diligent efforts to provide jobs in our region."Patriot Industries received HUBZone certification from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) in 2009 and has won multiple contracts for its expertise in cutting and sewing military products. "Patriot Industries is a great steward of Wayne County, providing quality jobs and supporting the community year after year," said Mike Anderson, Wayne County Judge Executive. "All the employees at Patriot Industries make us proud of the work they do for our military service men and women."Patriot Industries was founded in 1998 in Monticello. The company also operates a facility in nearby Albany, Kentucky. ###
02.02.2017	Every 20 minutes, someone in America dies from an opioid overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In an effort to combat the drug abuse epidemic and continue life-saving efforts across the country, Congressman Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.) re-launched the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The Caucus was first initiated in 2010 to raise awareness on the federal level about drug abuse and to design effective policy solutions for treatment, prevention, education, law enforcement and research. "Collaborative efforts combining education, treatment, drug courts and promoting partnerships at the local, state and federal level have helped communities in Massachusetts tackle opioid abuse. However, more work is needed to halt the devastating cycle of prescription drug abuse and help families in the 8th District and across the country who have loved ones struggling with addiction. I am proud to work alongside my friend, Congressman Rogers, to re-launch the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. It is critical for Members of Congress to work on a bipartisan basis to address the challenges of opioid abuse," said Congressman Lynch. The United States consumes 75% of the world's painkillers, and yet Americans constitute only 5% of the world's population. “We have seen the prescription drug abuse and heroin epidemic sweep across the nation, from the hills of Eastern Kentucky to downtown Boston and coast to coast. There is no part of our nation unscathed by the deadly and devastating clutch of addiction,” said Congressman Rogers, who co-founded the Caucus in 2010. “However, we know there is hope for recovery. We’ve seen lives saved and families reunited in every community, thanks to the collaboration of leaders at the local, state and federal levels. That’s why my friend, Congressman Lynch, and I have joined together to continue the work of this important Caucus.” Since the Caucus first launched seven years ago, Members have worked on a bipartisan basis to secure critical funding and improve federal policies. For example, co-chairs Rogers and Lynch worked tirelessly to ban the powerful painkiller Zohydro ER until the drug was made available in an abuse deterrent form. Additionally, the Caucus has addressed issues from neonatal abstinence syndrome in infants, to high rates of substance abuse among military veterans and funding for drug courts across the country. The successful work of the Caucus is highlighted each year at the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia, which is the largest annual gathering of professionals from across the country to discuss the multi-faceted challenges of the public health crisis, as well as effective solutions. #####
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) voted to support a resolution of disapproval (H.J. Res. 36) to overturn the Stream Protection Rule that was handed down by the Obama Administration in its final days. As written, the Stream Protection Rule threatens one-third of the nation's coal mining jobs. The House passed the resolution in order to protect jobs and return regulatory power to each state. During the rulemaking process, the Office of Surface Mining and Regulation Enforcement (OSMRE) failed to work with the states to share all scientific data and relevant information. As a result, eleven states withdrew as cooperating agencies. The House Committee on Natural Resources' investigation into OSMRE's rulemaking process revealed gross mismanagement. Congressman Rogers gave the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the Congressional resolution, which he also cosponsored: "Mr. Speaker, President Obama made it his mission to bankrupt the coal industry when he took office – and through a slew of job-killing regulations, he’s nearly made good on that promise. His Administration spent seven years and over $10 million in taxpayer dollars writing the Stream Protection rule. Even though the bipartisan 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill directed the Interior Department to engage with the States before finalizing this rule, the agency refused to comply - leaving crucial voices out of the rulemaking process. "Under this midnight regulation, at least half of the nation’s coal reserves would be restricted from mining and one-third of current coal related jobs would be at risk. This would mean devastating job losses in coal communities across the country – especially in Kentucky, where we’ve already got nearly 13,000 miners out of work. "It’s time to end the madness and give coal communities a chance to rebuild. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution. Thank you and I yield back." Click the video clip to watch Congressman Rogers' floor speech.#####
01.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) shows continued strong support for pro-life measures in the first month of the new Congress. On Monday, Rogers cosponsored a resolution of disapproval (H.J. Res. 39) to overturn the Obama Administration's midnight regulation forcing states to provide public tax dollars to facilities that administer abortions, like Planned Parenthood. "I have been a long-time defender of the millions of innocent babies whose lives are abruptly ended every year in America. We need to roll back the heart-breaking policies that were made in the final hours of the Obama Administration and restore the sanctity of life in this country," said Congressman Rogers. "Each state should have the authority to provide funding to for effective healthcare, rather than being forced to use taxpayer dollars for abortions." In addition to sponsoring H.J.Res. 39, Rogers also voted for the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 7), which consequently passed the House last week and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. The bill makes the Hyde Amendment permanent and government-wide, prohibiting taxpayer dollars from being used to fund abortions through government programs, like Medicaid. It also ensures that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) conforms to the Hyde Amendment while Congress works to repeal and replace Obamacare. Some reports estimate about half of the health insurance plans sold on Obamacare exchanges for 2017 cover abortion on demand, and in at least ten states, most or all plans cover elective abortion. Meanwhile, more than 60% of Americans agree that the government should not fund abortion.Rogers also supported the 44th annual Walk for Life in Washington, D.C. last week that attracted hundreds of thousands of people on the National Mall rallying for life - including a number of Kentuckians."We must continue giving a voice to the voiceless and remain steadfast to protect the unborn," said Congressman Rogers. "Echoing the words of Vice President Pence during the rally, 'life is winning again in America.'"In one of his first acts as President, Mr. Trump also issued an executive order to reinstate the Mexico City policy, which prohibits foreign nongovernment organizations from using U.S. federal grant money to perform or promote abortions overseas.Follow all of Congressman Rogers' work on Capitol Hill and in southern and eastern Kentucky by signing up for his e-newsletter online at halrogers.house.gov. ###
01.26.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) presented three students at Somerset Christian School with Congressional Award medals in recognition of their personal achievement, initiative and service to others.Congressman Rogers presented John Garland, a senior, with the Congressional Award silver medal, while juniors, Mary Katherine Grippe and Abigail Scott earned bronze medals."I'm incredibly proud of the hard work these students have committed to earning Congressional Award medals. It requires a lot of volunteer hours and persistence to gain this national honor," said Congressman Rogers. "Our colleges and universities are looking for students who stand out among the rest - those who promote good character in addition to good grades. These students are setting the bar for success very high."The Congressional Award program is open to all students ages 14 to 23. To earn the award, young people must set and achieve goals in four program areas: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration.The Somerset Christian School has more participants and medal recipients in the Congressional Award program than any other school in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District."We're very proud of our students and the high standard they set for achievement and success," said John Hale, Principal of Somerset Christian Academy. "John, Katie and Abigail are excellent students and they serve as wonderful role models for our younger students." To earn the silver medal, John Garland collected over 700 hours of service in the four program areas. He volunteered with the Correll Leadership Program and completed hospitality training and event coordination – and had the opportunity to serve VIP guests like Dr. Ben Carson and Tim Tebow. For personal development, John challenged himself to translate, read and write the New Testament Greek and Spanish languages. To fulfill the physical fitness component, he spent over 250 hours training and conditioning for multiple competitive sports, including soccer, basketball, baseball, running and swimming. Finally, he planned a two-week trip across the U.S. for his expedition, trekking through 10 states. Mary Katherine "Katie" Grippe earned her bronze medal by coordinating with the P31 Community Service Society to organize community events, like local fundraisers, baked good drives for the elderly and a four-mile relay race for a local non-profit. She also worked with the Stowe Center to learn the importance of patience and diligence when landscaping and gardening. For Personal Development, she worked on her baking and entrepreneurship skills with a small cupcake business. For the Physical Fitness component, she worked to improve her volleyball skills. Katie also planned a 5-day trip to Washington, D.C. to research our nation’s history and explore a diverse urban area to fulfill her exploration requirement. To earn the bronze medal, Abigail Scott volunteered with the P31 Service Society in partnership with the Stowe Center for their annual free dental screening event. She cleaned, painted and handed out information packets to the community. For Personal Development, Abigail learned the basics of playing the guitar. To fulfill the physical fitness requirement, she spent over 100 hours practicing her overhand serve in volleyball and set a goal to consistently serve in the 80-to-90% range. She also planned a four-night camping trip on the Black Rock Mountain for her expedition, where she experienced whitewater rafting and other adventures. To sign up for the Congressional Award program, visit congressionalaward.org. ###
01.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) applauds the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) approval of approximately $8 million in Economic Diversification Awards to help expand and diversify the economy in the coalfields of southern and eastern Kentucky. The projects are expected to create or retain approximately 300 jobs and spur private investments. It's part of additional investments through the POWER (Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization) Initiative of nearly $26 million to create jobs and improve workforce development across five Appalachian states that have been hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry. "When times get tough, the ARC continues to stand in the gap for southern and eastern Kentucky and these investments show the agency's trusted partnership in reviving and rebuilding our region," said Congressman Rogers. "Our best days are ahead of us and these projects will specifically improve our addiction recovery efforts, workforce development, digital innovation tourism opportunities and job creation." The 28 awards for Kentucky, Alabama, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia are projected to create or retain more than 2,500 jobs and train more than 7,300 workers and students. “These investments capitalize on the growing momentum for a diverse economy in Appalachia,” said ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl. “They are strategic, collaborative and impactful plans to make Kentucky and the entire Appalachian Region more competitive in technology, manufacturing, entrepreneurship, broadband, health and a variety of other sectors.” Kentucky's awards include: $3.5 million ARC grant for Big Sandy Community and Technical College in Prestonsburg, Kentucky for the Eastern Kentucky Coal County Transformation Project, which will launch a workforce development program focused on building the digital economy across a 16-county region through the Big Sandy, Hazard, and Southeast Kentucky Community and Technical Colleges. The project is expected to serve 300 trainees and improve operations of 30 existing businesses in the first two years of the award. $1.5 million ARC grant to Hazard Community and Technical College to build an Intergenerational Training Center on the Lees College Campus in Jackson, Kentucky, which will train nearly 300 dislocated workers and credential 228 students over the life of the award. $1.25 million ARC grant to the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation in London, Kentucky for the Kentucky Highlands Employment and Financial Training Program, which will support local entrepreneurs at both the start-up and expansion stages through a loan fund in 21 counties across the region The project is expected to create or retain 200 jobs. $1 million ARC grant to Fahe - Federation of Appalachian housing enterprises - in Berea, Kentucky for the UPLIFT Appalachia Recovery Project, which will be used to finance three community addiction recovery facilities located in Louisa, Somerset and Jackson. The award will serve more than 5,000 patients and create or retain 63 jobs. $500,000 ARC grant to the City of Whitesburg, Kentucky for the Whitesburg Daniel Boone Hotel Stabilization Project, which will restore and preserve the historic Daniel Boone Hotel, representing the City's rise after the arrival of railroads and the county's first coal mines. The project will create 23 jobs and is expected to attract approximately 10,000 new visitors every year. For more information about each project, visit arc.gov. ###
01.19.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) applauds the Appalachian Regional Commission's (ARC) approval of a $100,000 grant for Operation UNITE to continue battling the drug abuse epidemic in southern and eastern Kentucky. The competitive grant includes $50,000 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). "Operation UNITE's holistic approach to curb addiction and save lives is now a national model of success, and this funding will help expand the organization's impact," said Congressman Rogers, who helped launch UNITE in 2003. "The ARC and the CDC have been instrumental partners in the ongoing work here at home and on the national stage at the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit. I applaud their commitment to this life-saving effort in the Appalachian region." Every day, approximately 91 Americans die from an opioid-related overdose, according to the CDC. Operation UNITE has worked diligently to save lives and change the stigma surrounding addiction through education, prevention and treatment efforts in schools and communities across the service region. The funding will be used to strengthen UNITE's strategic plan to reflect the rapid changes in drug trends and related public health communications. “It’s exciting to begin a strategic planning process that will enable Operation UNITE to expand upon the prevention, education, treatment and law enforcement initiatives that have been successful across southern and eastern Kentucky for the past 13 years," said Nancy Hale, President and CEO of Operation UNITE. "A strategic plan will enable UNITE to strengthen its current mission to empower individuals and communities struggling with the devastating impacts of substance abuse and misuse.” UNITE has committed $25,000 in matching funds for the grant program. To learn more about Operation UNITE and the 2017 National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, visit operationunite.org. ###
01.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) applauds the U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) award of up to $11 million to the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP) in Hazard, Kentucky to provide training and employment services for approximately 1,450 laid off coal miners in Eastern Kentucky. "This award will ensure that our former miners will have access to the assistance they need during a critical time in their lives," said Congressman Rogers. "EKCEP has worked diligently to help our laid off coal miners and their spouses get the training, education and certifications they need to build their resumes and find new employment that will support their families. I applaud EKCEP's commitment to compete for necessary funding to keep these important programs going." Over the last three years alone, more than 8,000 coal miners have been laid off in Kentucky's Appalachian Region. During that same time, EKCEP assisted 3,218 dislocated coal miners and their spouses through the Hiring Our Miners Everyday (HOME) program, which was developed with a National Emergency Grant from the DOL Employment and Training Administration. This new grant will continue those services, bringing total funds for this project to nearly $22.5 million. "The need to continue services for our laid off miners and their spouses remains high. These additional funds will enable EKCEP and our community partners to maintain services to assist these men and women enter new training, develop new skills, and enter new career paths," said Jeff Whitehead, Executive Director of EKCEP. "We are very grateful that the Department of Labor is maintaining its support for our region’s unemployed workers, and we look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Rogers on his efforts to improve the lives of Eastern Kentucky’s residents.” EKCEP's programs work in concert with the mission of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region, helping launch a number of economic diversity and workforce development opportunities in Eastern Kentucky. Together, they have supported new projects and high-tech businesses in the region, including Interapt, BitSource, Teleworks USA and the eKY Advanced Manufacturing Institute. For training and employment assistance, visit ekcep.org. ###
01.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) will serve on three U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittees during the 115th Congress. In addition to being tapped as Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Agencies, Rogers also returns as a member of the Subcommittees on Defense and Commerce, Justice and Science. "The three combined committees are responsible for the oversight of more than $625 billion in discretionary spending for our national security, military operations, economic development, science and space research, as well as federal law enforcement and illegal drug efforts," said Chairman Rogers. "It is an honor to return to these subcommittees, as we work to get our fiscal house in order and strengthen this great nation." The Subcommittee on Defense is responsible for funding and oversight of national security efforts, military operations and readiness programs, Overseas Contingency Operations and the Global War on Terrorism. The Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science provides discretionary funding and oversight for economic development, trade enforcement, federal law enforcement and illegal drug efforts, the National Science Foundation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, where Rogers serves as Chairman, is tasked with protecting American embassies and consulates, supporting security for U.S. allies, prioritizing life-saving health and human aid around the world, and addressing health threats overseas before they reach American soil. It also funds international narcotics control and law enforcement activities, as well as antiterrorism programs and peacekeeping operations. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee from 2011 to 2016, Rogers cut spending by $126 billion, considered 2122 amendments to appropriations bills on the House floor and conducted 650 oversight hearings. For a full list of accomplishments, visit halrogers.house.gov. ###
01.10.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) will serve as Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Agencies for the 115th Congress. Rogers was tapped as the congressional international ambassador after making historic strides as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee over the last six years. "I count it a great honor to help lead our national security, international diplomacy and work hand-in-hand with our nation's allies to fight terrorism around the world," said Chairman Rogers. "With such intense turmoil overseas, it is vitally important that the United States maintain unwavering global leadership, while working tirelessly to protect our diplomats and promote democracy across the globe." The Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations is tasked with protecting American embassies and consulates, supporting security for U.S. allies, prioritizing life-saving health and human aid around the world, and addressing health threats overseas before they reach American soil. The Subcommittee also funds international narcotics control and law enforcement activities, as well as antiterrorism programs and peacekeeping operations. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee from 2011 to 2016, Rogers reinvigorated regular order within the appropriations process, enhanced oversight and transparency, and restored fiscal discipline. Over the last six years, the House Appropriations Committee cut spending by $126 billion, considered 2122 amendments to appropriations bills on the House floor and conducted 650 oversight hearings. Rogers turned over the gavel to newly appointed Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen for the 115th Congress. "Chairman Frelinghuysen and I have worked side-by-side on the Appropriations Committee for more than 20 years. He is a proven leader for fiscal responsibility and transparency, and it is with great confidence that I hand over the gavel to my friend and colleague from New Jersey," said Rogers. "Chairman Frelinghuysen has played a key role in restoring fiscal discipline to the appropriations process and will serve as a trustworthy leader at the helm of the nation's purse strings in the new Congress." For a full list of accomplishments, visit halrogers.house.gov. ###
01.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) applauded the work of the new Congress in its first week in operation, meeting with Vice President-Elect Mike Pence, addressing veterans issues, reining in costly regulations and taking steps to protect black lung benefits. Republican Members of the House met with Vice President-Elect Mike Pence earlier this week to discuss plans to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as Obamacare. Pence reminded legislators that premiums are increasing by an average of 25% this year, while some states experienced increases as high as 116%. As the new Congress works to overhaul the disastrous and unaffordable healthcare act, Rogers continues to advocate for a piecemeal approach to protect portions like the Byrd Amendment, making it easier for coal miners to obtain black lung benefits. In fact, on Thursday, Rogers cosponsored a resolution, H. Res. 26, to protect black lung benefits and widows' benefits in the law. Currently, if a miner has 15 years or more of experience in underground mining and can prove it has resulted in respiratory disability, the miner is automatically awarded benefits, unless the employing coal company can prove otherwise. The Byrd Amendment, named after the late Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, also protects miners' widows' black lung benefits, and Rogers hopes to keep those protections in place as Congress moves forward with new legislation. "Black lung benefits are critical to the hard working coal miners of Eastern Kentucky, as well as their widows, and I will continue fighting to protect the benefits that they have earned," said Congressman Rogers. "We must repeal and replace Obamacare with an affordable plan that provides access to the care that Americans want and deserve. However, we must carefully review each portion of the law and work to protect sections like black lung benefits." Also on Thursday, the U.S. House of Representative passed the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017 (H.R. 26), to reform federal regulations and restore accountability. During the Obama Administration, over 550 new federal regulations were imposed on America's job creators and households, costing nearly $108 billion each year. The REINS Act requires federal agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval, and Congress must vote on those rules within 70 legislative days. "Too often, regulators fail to weigh the costs and benefits of their actions, and there is no accountability in place for them." said Rogers, who cosponsored the bill. "The REINS Act removes regulatory power from unelected agency officials in Washington and ensures elected representatives in Congress have a chance to review and approve any new major rules. It's time to remove unnecessary and costly road blocks for American families and businesses." In 2015, federal regulations burdened the American people with an estimated $1.885 trillion, which equals roughly $15,000 per household and 10.4% of the nation's Gross Domestic Product. During the 2016 presidential campaign, President-elect Trump offered strong support for the REINS Act. As announced earlier this week, Rogers cosponsored his first resolution of the 115th Congress to strike down the Obama Administration's overreaching Stream Buffer Zone Rule that places further restrictions on coal mining. According to the National Mining Association, the new rule could result in the additional loss of over 77,500 coal mining jobs across the country. The Congressional resolution would allow the U.S. House and Senate to take a simple vote to reverse the controversial rule. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. ###
01.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) co-sponsored his first resolution of the 115th Congress to stop the overreaching Stream Buffer Zone Rule, one of the Obama Administration's last attempts to shut down more coal mining operations in Central Appalachia and around the country. The joint resolution allows each chamber of Congress to take a simple vote to overturn the controversial rule that was published on December 20th. "Let this be our first congressional declaration that the Obama Administration's war on coal is over," said Congressman Rogers. "Since 2008, we've lost more than 11,000 coal mining jobs in Eastern Kentucky alone, devastating our families and coal communities. It's time to rebuild and advance commonsense legislation that reverses these terrible trends." The Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE) failed to comply with a Congressional directive to work closely with coal-producing states and share analytical data before finalizing the rule. ###
01.03.2017	The 115th Congress was sworn in today on Capitol Hill, with Congressman Hal Rogers taking the oath of office for a 19th term serving the people of southern and eastern Kentucky. "As we begin a new Congress, I am excited for new opportunities on the horizon for the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, and nationwide. Its time to rein in job-killing regulations, make healthcare affordable and effective, turn the tide on the nation's deadly drug abuse epidemic, improve support for our active military troops and veterans, and secure a better future for our children and grandchildren. I look forward to working with my new colleagues and President-elect Donald Trump." The new Republican-led Congress will have a 241-194 majority in the House and a 52-48 majority in the Senate. Beginning his 37th year, Rogers is Kentucky's longest serving Republican elected to federal office. To learn more about Congressman Rogers, visit halrogers.house.gov and sign up for his e-newsletter. ###
12.19.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers joined local officials in Manchester for a ribbon cutting ceremony at the new Dismas Charities Manchester Re-Entry Center located on Muddy Gap Road. The new half-way house will create 22 new jobs in Clay County. Dismas Charities was recently awarded a competitive federal contract with the Manchester Federal Correctional Institution to help individuals transition back into society. The Manchester Re-Entry Center will provide in-house services to 27 men and women from the Eastern District of Kentucky and 14 home confinement residents. "This new facility is a sign that great things are on the horizon for the City of Hope," said Congressman Rogers. "When Dismas Charities was looking for a community to call home in Eastern Kentucky, the City of Manchester demonstrated they were ready for a facility of this magnitude, and willing to help folks who have been given a second-chance in life." The annual payroll and benefits for employees will equal an estimated $700,000, plus Dismas Charities has budgeted approximately $500,000 annually for local goods and services. "Not only does Dismas Charities provide critical services for individuals who are starting a new chapter in their lives, but this organization has taken a leap of faith by investing in our community and creating much needed jobs right here in Clay County," said Senator Stivers. Dismas Charities was founded in 1964 and operates 33 programs in 13 states. The Manchester facility is designed to provide services for 40 residents, but has the capacity to expand for 48 residents. The facility will establish a local Community Advisory Board to assist in program planning. "In the last two years, 81 residents in our Louisville and Lexington programs have come from Manchester and surrounding communities," said Ray Weiss, President/CEO of Dismas Charities. "Had this center existed, these 81 men and women, as well as their families, would have been able to re-unite more easily without the barriers of distance and transportation." Dismas Charities develops individual programs for each resident to reduce recidivism. The program will help residents prepare for and obtain employment, reunite families, develop financial literacy and responsibility, parenting, substance abuse and mental health. Dismas Charities has invest $2.8 million in land acquisition, development, construction and furnishings for the Manchester facility that is scheduled to open February 1, 2017.
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today praised passage of a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) (H.R. 2028) to prevent a government shutdown and continue funding for federal programs and services until April 28, 2017. The legislation also contains additional funding for war efforts and disaster relief.“This legislation is necessary to continue vital government programs and services, like our national defense. It keeps the lights on in our government, preventing the uncertainty and harm of a government shutdown,” Chairman Rogers said. “While I firmly believe a continuing resolution is no way to run a railroad, at this point, this is our best – and only – path forward. I commend the House for passing it today, and urge the Senate to send it to the President’s desk for his signature as soon as possible.”For Chairman Rogers' floor statement on the Short-Term Continuing Resolution, please click here. For the full text of the legislation, please click here.
12.08.2016	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) applauds House passage of the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act to improve critical infrastructure across the country and strengthen the economy. The bill also incorporates the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016, which overwhelmingly passed the House in September. It includes Rogers' amendment to approve "floating cabins" on lakes operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the Cumberland River Basin, including Lake Cumberland. "The WIIN Act is a victory for Americans, extending access to clean drinking water in distressed communities, while also providing efficient protection from floods," said Congressman Rogers. "The 'floating cabin' amendment will also provide an economic boost for the Lake Cumberland region - streamlining approval for these innovative cabins through the U.S. Coast Guard - and equipping the tourism industry with another tool for lake enthusiasts to enjoy our beautiful region." The WIIN Act addresses the needs of America's harbors, locks, dams, flood protection and other water resources infrastructure critical to the Nation's economic growth, health and competitiveness. It provides strong congressional oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and authorizes activities over a two year cycle for responsible flood protection, water resources development and key missions. It includes provisions to improve drinking water infrastructure, water storage and delivery, as well as dam maintenance. The bill also provides each state with flexibility to address the control of coal ash in regard to the Environmental Protection Agency's final rule on coal combustion. The WIIN Act now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. #### RELATED FILES: September 28, 2016 Watch Congressman Rogers' floor speech in support of "floating cabins" on Lake Cumberland
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers introduced a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) (H.R. 2028) to prevent a government shutdown and continue funding for federal programs and services until April 28, 2017. The legislation also contains funding for emergency disaster relief. Chairman Rogers gave the following statement on the introduction of this CR: “This Continuing Resolution is the necessary step for an operating and functioning government over the next four months. However, this type of short-term spending absolutely should not be the final answer to funding the federal government for the year. It is imperative that Congress complete its work on the remaining 11 Appropriations bills to ensure the proper and responsible use of tax dollars, to provide necessary resources for important programs and services, and to hold federal agencies accountable to the American people. “This legislation is just a band aid, but a critical one. It will give the next Congress the time to complete the annual Appropriations process, and in the meantime, take care of immediate national funding needs.” Continuing Resolution Summary: Length and Level of Funding – The CR extends funding for operations for most federal agencies, programs and services until April 28, 2017. It maintains the current budget cap level of $1.07 trillion put into place under the Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation continues policy and funding provisions included in currently enacted fiscal year 2016 Appropriations legislation. It does not include controversial riders, or major changes in existing federal policy. Overseas Contingency Funding (OCO) – The bill contains $5.8 billion for the Department of Defense and $4.3 billion for the State Department/USAID to support military and diplomatic efforts to fight ISIS and terror around the globe, to provide essential resources that will ensure our national security, and to increase the readiness of our troops. Including increases in base discretionary spending, the Defense level in the bill is $8 billion above the rate in the current Continuing Resolution. Funding for the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 – Included in the legislation is $872 million in funding for the House-passed “21st Century Cures Act of 2016,” which boosts critical medical research, drug approval, and drug abuse efforts. This includes $20 million for the Food and Drug Administration Innovation account, $352 million for the National Institutes of Health Innovation account, and $500 million for states to respond to the opioid abuse crisis. This funding is fully offset. Natural Disaster Relief – The CR contains $4.1 billion in disaster relief funding to address damages caused by recent natural disasters, including Hurricane Matthew, floods, drought, and other severe weather events. This includes: $1.8 billion for Community Development Block Grants to states to support recovery and rebuilding efforts for individuals with homes damaged by severe weather events; $1.025 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers for repairs to flood and coastal storm protection projects and dredging; $1 billion for the Federal Highway Emergency Relief program to repair damaged highways; $206.1 million for emergency watershed protection and conservation; and $74.7 million to repair damaged NASA facilities. Drinking Water – The CR contains $170 million to address the infrastructure and health needs of those communities affected by contaminated drinking water. This includes grants for infrastructure improvements, lead poisoning prevention care for mothers and children, and a lead exposure registry. This funding is fully offset. Other Items The CR also includes provisions needed to prevent catastrophic, irreversible, or detrimental changes to government programs, to support our national security, and to ensure good government. Some of these provisions include: A provision to provide $45 million, fully offset, for continued health care benefits for certain retired miners under the United Mine Workers Association 1993 Benefit Plan. This is necessary to prevent the loss of health care coverage for these miners and their families, scheduled to expire on December 31, 2016. A provision allowing funding to be used for the Ohio Class Submarine Replacement program to avoid delays that would increase costs. A provision allowing funding to be used for Apache Attack Helicopter and Black Hawk Helicopter multiyear procurements to avoid delays that would increase costs. A provision allowing funding to be used for the KC-46A Tanker program to avoid delays that would increase costs. A provision allowing funds to be used for critical nuclear weapons activities. A provision allowing funds to be used to continue Homeland Security operations, including border security, immigration enforcement, aviation security, and the protection of the President-elect. A provision ensuring the continuation of Federal Aviation Administration air travel operations and safety activities. A provision preventing an increase in pay for Members of Congress. A provision allowing additional funding, if needed, for the housing and care of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) after February 1, 2017. Due to the variability in the increased number of children coming into the country, it is possible that additional funds may be needed at that time. A provision requiring the Department of Transportation to follow the existing 34-hour restart “Hours of Service” rule for truck drivers to ensure continuity in federal rest regulations, should the report on the rule (mandated in prior Acts) not meet the criteria set by Congress. A provision allowing funds for NASA’s Deep Space Exploration program to avoid delays that would increase long-term costs. A provision allowing funds for the Joint Polar Satellite System programs, ensuring the continuation of data for weather warnings, including forecasts of severe weather events. A provision allowing funds to begin operation of a summer nutrition program for low-income children. A provision allowing funds to make District of Columbia school vouchers available in time for the next academic year. For the full text of the legislation, please visit: http://docs.house.gov/floor/ #####
12.02.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Conference Report to accompany the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), H.R. 4909, for fiscal year 2017 to enhance national defense operations. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) voted for the legislation which provides the largest pay raise for U.S. troops in six years, improves health care for troops and their families, and strengthens our national defense at home and abroad with an investment of $619 billion. "The National Defense Authorization Act provides the tools and resources that our men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces need to defend our nation, while also taking better care of them and their families at home," said Congressman Rogers. "The legislation also takes important steps to ensure that the dangerous terrorists detained at Guantanamo Bay never step foot on American soil, while boosting resources to combat Islamic extremists, like ISIS, overseas." The NDAA authorizes a $5.8 billion supplemental request for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Europe, as well as $3.2 billion for Readiness Stabilization Funding to stop the drawdown of the military, which is fueling the readiness crisis. The legislation also supports the efforts of our European allies to counter Russian aggression, and funds the Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense programs. ###
11.30.2016	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-5) applauds House passage of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act (Cures), H.R. 6, which will transform the way we discover, develop and deliver new treatments and cures for disease, including new tools to combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic. There are 10,000 known diseases, but we only have cures and treatments for 500 of them. The Cures act includes $4.8 million in new funding for the National Institutes of Health to advance research for projects like the Precision Medicine Initiative, the "Cancer Moonshot," and the BRAIN initiative to enhance our understanding about diseases like Alzheimer's. It also authorizes $1 billion in grants over the next two years for states to fight drug addiction and $500 million for the Food and Drug Administration over the next decade to fast-track approval of critical medications and devices. "The historic Cures act is a bill of hope for those suffering with life-changing and life-threating diseases," said Congressman Rogers, who voted for the legislation. "It will improve treatment options for those struggling to overcome drug addiction, it will enhance approval for vital therapies, spur development of cures for pediatric diseases, expedite innovative research for cancer and other illnesses, while also reforming mental health care. It will undoubtedly prove to be life-saving legislation for future generations." The bill also lifts barriers for Medicare patients who rely on clinics in rural communities, allowing doctors and other medical providers to access more resources and deliver better care for seniors. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, funding for the bill is fully offset on a year-by-year basis, rather than spending now and saving later. The Cures act now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
11.29.2016	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-5) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for approving five bills aimed at honoring and improving benefits and protections for our nation's military veterans. The bills address a number of concerns for our American heroes, from approving health saving accounts, to honoring Medal of Honor recipients buried in private cemeteries, to improving quality healthcare and incentivizing businesses to employ veterans. "Veterans of our U.S. Armed Forces deserve the utmost respect and protections that we can provide, and these bills will help fast-track the improved care they need," said Congressman Rogers who supported the legislation. "I'm especially proud of the WINGMAN Act (H.R. 5166), a bill I cosponsored allowing certified congressional staff to review veterans' records, after receiving their permission, to speed up response times. It will allow caseworkers to help Kentucky veterans much faster, along with veterans across the country." Other bills approved are the HIRE Vets Act (H.R. 3286), establishing a HIRE Vets Medallion Program to recognize businesses that employ veterans every year; and the No Hero Left Untreated Act (H.R. 5600), establishing a one year pilot program to utilize a new form of therapy to treat a limited number of veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, chronic pain, opiate addiction or sexual trauma. The House also passed the Veterans TRICARE Act (H.R. 5458) and H.R. 6323 to rename a California VA facility in memory of a fallen Korean War hero who was also a prisoner of war. Veterans and their families can obtain assistance from Congressman Rogers and his staff in the Somerset and Hazard, Kentucky offices by calling (800) 632-8588. ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, released the following statement regarding U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy's Report on Alcohol, Drugs, and Health. The report is available online at https://addiction.surgeongeneral.gov. "U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy’s Report on Alcohol, Drugs, and Health fulfills a promise he made to release the first-ever report of its kind earlier this year at Operation UNITE’s National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit. Thanks to UNITE, we are discussing addiction beyond the borders of southern and eastern Kentucky, helping the rest of the country realize this is a national epidemic. "Everyday, 78 Americans die from an opioid-related overdose, according to the CDC, and we need to do more to save lives. I applaud the Surgeon General for releasing this comprehensive report to address the scope of the problem, including the risks of increased marijuana use nationwide. He highlighted important solutions for addiction prevention, treatment and recovery, so together, we can do a better job of facing addiction." ###
11.01.2016	Gov. Matt Bevin and U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE) has approved a $12.5 million grant for the development of the Appalachian Wildlife Center in Bell County, Ky. The money will fund the wildlife center that, when opened to the public in 2019, would contain a museum of natural and regional history, a theater, a hall dedicated to the natural history of elk, bird watching, an astronomy pavilion and a 15-mile, self-guided scenic loop road for wildlife viewing. The center will be located on 19 square miles along the Cumberland River and is expected to attract 638,000 annually visitors by the fifth year of operation. The grant is part of the $30 million in federal grant money that was made available from the U.S. government’s General Fund through the 2016 AML Pilot program for projects in Appalachian counties that have the potential to create long-term economic benefits. To that end, the Appalachian Wildlife Center is projected to generate more than $1 billion in regional economic activity over the first 10 years of operation. Gov. Matt Bevin, who has called the pilot program a tremendous one-time opportunity for leaders in Appalachian counties to help grow a future for Kentuckians in the region, said he is excited by its vision. “This pilot program provides an exciting opportunity for our leaders in Appalachian counties,” said Gov. Bevin. “By leveraging some of Kentucky's greatest competitive advantages — magnificent natural beauty, abundant wildlife and a strong sense of history and place — this program will help to create future opportunities for Kentuckians across the region.” U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, who worked to secure the funds through the FY 2016 Omnibus appropriations bill, has said the AML pilot project will be a double win for Eastern Kentucky by reclaiming and redeveloping abandoned mine land to spur economic development where it's needed the most. “The new wildlife center will highlight the natural beauty of our region and provide up-close tours of the thriving wildlife now repopulating our mountains,” Congressman Rogers said. “It will also promote environmental education and economic development in the heart of the coalfields." The Center is projected to cost $24 million, and will be developed over a five-year period. Revenues from admission fees and on-site spending are projected to make it financially self-sustaining in the second year of operation, while generating funding for scholarship, research and land conservation programs. While fundraising efforts are ongoing, the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) announced this week that the Appalachian Wildlife Foundation was awarded a $1.8 million grant under the Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative. The money will be used to install water infrastructure at the future site of the wildlife center. The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. Making the announcement Tuesday with Gov. Bevin and Congressman Rogers were Charles Snavely, Secretary, Energy and Environment Cabinet, Sandy Dunahoo, Commissioner, Department of Local Government, Greg Johnson, Commissioner, Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife, Regina Stivers, Deputy Secretary, Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and Dr. Karen Waldrop, Deputy Commissioner, Kentucky Dept. of Fish and Wildlife. Besides the wildlife center, OSMRE has given preliminary approval to a $2.5 million grant for a manufacturing training project by the eKentucky Advanced Manufacturing Institute, Inc. (eKAMI), a $5 million grant for an industrial park project by the city of Pikeville, and a $500,000 grant for Impact Outdoor Adventures in Clay County for adventure tourism. Besides the four AML Pilot projects tentatively approved by OSMRE, additional information is being gathered on two other projects that have been sent to OSMRE for consideration. David L. Ledford, Chief Executive Officer of the Appalachian Wildlife Foundation, said the ambitious project will need additional funding, through donations from individuals, foundations and businesses. “The Center will lead the way in developing and demonstrating ecological restoration and sustainable land uses for coal mines throughout Central Appalachia,” Ledford said. “The visitors it attracts will demonstrate the value of ecotourism and begin to create that new economic paradigm in Kentucky's elk country.” The pilot program is part of $90 million in funds that has been set aside for one-time grants to Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia to return coal sites to productive uses that will bring new jobs to replace the thousands lost during the downturn of the industry. “We are encouraging community leaders throughout the region to look at options that will have the best chances of bringing dramatic growth and jobs to Appalachia,” said the Cabinet for Economic Development’s Acting Secretary Erik Dunnigan. “For example, several communities may choose to band together to upgrade industrial sites, including providing the necessary infrastructure and possibly spec buildings, so that companies looking to expand in Kentucky can be up and running quickly.” Counties that are eligible for projects include: Adair, Bath, Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Casey, Clark, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Edmonson, Elliott, Estill, Fleming, Floyd, Garrard, Green, Greenup, Harlan, Hart, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Lincoln, McCreary, Madison, Magoffin, Martin, Menifee, Metcalfe, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Nicholas, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, Pulaski, Robertson, Rockcastle, Rowan, Russell, Wayne, Whitley, and Wolfe. Application forms for project submittals can be found at AMLPILOT or by calling or emailing Mr. Bob Scott, Director, KY Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 300 Sower Blvd., Frankfort, KY 40601. 502-782-6761, BobF.Scott@ky.gov. Watch press conference video. Download photos and graphics from today's event. ###
11.01.2016	Gov. Matt Bevin and U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Harlan County Industrial Development Authority, Inc. has received preliminary approval from the U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE) for a $2.52 million grant for an alternative energy manufacturing center in Harlan County, Ky. The funds will be used to leverage an additional $10.5 million in private investment from Harlan Wood Products LLC to create 30-35 new jobs, and approximately 60 new indirect jobs at a new Harlan Wood Products production center to be located at a previously reclaimed abandoned mine lands site at Yancey, Ky. “This AML pilot program is a tremendous opportunity for business leaders in Appalachian counties to help shape the future of Kentucky's economic landscape,” said Gov. Bevin. “This wood pellet manufacturing center will create new jobs to replace some of those destroyed by President Obama’s war on coal. We are blessed by an abundance of natural resources in Kentucky’s forests and I appreciate the innovation and investment being made by Harlan Wood Products to take full advantage of these assets.” The center, when opened, is expected to annually produce 75,000 tons of wood pellets that will be exported to Europe (primarily Italy and Denmark) for biomass fuel for residential and commercial markets. Wood pellets are a source of sustainable, green energy that has become an internationally traded biomass, with a market size expected to increase from 16 million metric tons in 2010 to 59 million tons or more in 2020. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, who worked to secure the funds through the FY 2016 Omnibus appropriations bill, has said the AML pilot project will be a double win for Eastern Kentucky by reclaiming and redeveloping abandoned mine land to spur economic development where it's needed the most. "Our future hinges upon our ingenuity and our ability to see beyond the desperation in our coalfields," said Congressman Rogers. "As mining engineers by trade, Tim and David Howard are doing just that, by pursuing a new way to invest in Harlan County and employ our talented workforce. I applaud them and the local leaders who worked to bring this project to fruition." The pellet manufacturing process involves debarking, drying, grinding and extruding wood fiber under high pressure and temperature. The raw materials for this production center will consist of the cull timber and branches greater than 4 inches in diameter that remain from area logging operations, as well as saw dust from nearby wood processing facilities. While Harlan Wood Products will provide the investment to purchase and install the equipment used in the manufacturing process, the Harlan County Industrial Development Authority (IDA) will use the $2.52 million to insure that the site has the necessary water, natural gas and electric, foundation work and shell facility to house the equipment and access road upgrades. Additionally, IDA will begin exploring a partnership with the University of Kentucky to determine the opportunities for utilizing a portion of the facility’s revenue for reforestation efforts within the reclaimed mine areas of the county. The AML Pilot project is a joint effort by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the Department for Local Government, the Kentucky Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands. Making the announcement Tuesday with Gov. Bevin and Congressman Rogers were Charles Snavely, Secretary, Energy and Environment Cabinet, Sandy Dunahoo, Commissioner, Department of Local Government, Greg Johnson, Commissioner, Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife, Regina Stivers, Deputy Secretary, Tourism, Arts and Heritage Cabinet and Dr. Karen Waldrop, Deputy Commissioner, Kentucky Dept. of Fish and Wildlife. Besides the alternative energy manufacturing center, OSMRE has given preliminary approval for a $12.5 million grant for the development of the Appalachian Wildlife Center in Bell County, Ky., a $2.5 million grant for a manufacturing training project by the eKentucky Advanced Manufacturing Institute, Inc. (eKAMI), a $5 million grant for an industrial park project by the city of Pikeville, and a $500,000 grant for Impact Outdoor Adventures in Clay County for adventure tourism. The pilot program is part of $90 million in funds that has been set aside for one-time grants to Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia to return coal sites to productive uses that will bring new jobs to replace the thousands lost during the downturn of the industry. Counties that are eligible for projects include: Adair, Bath, Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Carter, Casey, Clark, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Edmonson, Elliott, Estill, Fleming, Floyd, Garrard, Green, Greenup, Harlan, Hart, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Lincoln, McCreary, Madison, Magoffin, Martin, Menifee, Metcalfe, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Nicholas, Owsley, Perry, Pike, Powell, Pulaski, Robertson, Rockcastle, Rowan, Russell, Wayne, Whitley, and Wolfe. Application forms for project submittals can be found at AMLPILOT or by calling or emailing Mr. Bob Scott, Director, KY Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 300 Sower Blvd., Frankfort, KY 40601. 502-782-6761, BobF.Scott@ky.gov. ###
11.01.2016	After joining SOAR co-chairs Gov. Matt Bevin and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers to announce a $12.5 million grant for the Appalachian Wildlife Center in Bell County and a $2.52 million grant for Harlan Wood Products in Harlan County, the SOAR Executive Board met in Corbin to finalize a regional blueprint for economic growth and diversity in an effort to achieve one of the greatest rural economic rebounds in the nation’s history. The SOAR Executive Board approved the regional blueprint to coordinate a strategic, proactive and systemic approach across federal, state and local levels to shape the future of Kentucky’s Appalachian region. “This blueprint is a succinct plan of action that will help SOAR continue to create new opportunities and network resources to broaden our horizons,” said Congressman Rogers. “After losing more than 11,000 coal mining jobs in our region over the last eight years, plus countless more coal-related businesses, this board understands the urgency of success and diversity in our coal communities. As long as we persevere and work together, I believe our future is limitless.” SOAR’s regional blueprint is a cohesive plan based on the original working group reports and feedback from community listening sessions held across 54 Appalachian counties. “Eastern Kentucky has always been a land of resilience and innovation,” said Gov. Bevin. “That spirit is alive and well and serves as a guiding light in SOAR’s collaborative efforts to propel this region forward. We are thankful for the feedback and support from members of our Appalachian communities, and are excited by the unlimited possibilities unfolding before us.” The board-approved plan includes seven overarching goals to spur economic development, including: access to affordable high-speed broadband, workforce development, create and expand entrepreneurship for the digital economy, reduce health disparities, increase industrial business and employment, create a local foods movement, and establish Kentucky’s Appalachian region as a tourism designation. The SOAR Regional Blueprint is available at http://soar-ky.org/blueprint. “Built off of input from thousands of citizens across the region, the blueprint is a call to action to all stakeholders in eastern Kentucky to develop projects and programs that line up with its goals and objectives,” said Jared Arnett, SOAR Executive Director. “We will build teams around these goals, set metrics for success, and facilitate strategically aligned projects to transform the economy of eastern Kentucky.” Students from Paintsville High School were recognized during the meeting for being the top high school hackers at the SOAR Health Hack-a-thon in October. In an effort to find a solution to Kentucky’s drug abuse epidemic, the student group, Team Oasis (Overcoming Abusive Substances by Interacting Socially), proposed a mobile app that would create a licensed, professional chat room that must be used before people can get a prescription for pain medicine. It would also serve as an online community support mechanism. The proposal earned the team an award of $1,000. To see a list of all the SOAR Health Hack-a-thon winners, visit http://www.soar-ky.org. The board also applauded recent advances on the KentuckyWired project, SOAR.network, and TechHire East Kentucky. SOAR is a network of our Appalachia that unites 54 counties worth of talent enabling the people to shape the future of the region and it is driven by action. SOAR is us; creating these innovations and solving problems to make a better future for our region. #### (Left) SOAR Executive Committee discusses regional blueprint (Right) Paintsville High School winning team for the SOAR Health Hack-a-thon
09.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (H.R. 5303). It provides strong congressional oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and authorizes activities over a two year cycle for responsible flood protection, water resources development and other critical programs. The legislation includes Rogers' amendment to approve "floating cabins" on lakes operated by the Corps in the Cumberland River basin, like Lake Cumberland in southern Kentucky. Rogers offered the following remarks about his amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives encouraging support from his colleagues. "Thank you, Mr. Speaker and thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to offer this amendment. This small legislative clarification will go a long way to promote tourism and economic opportunity on Corps lakes. "Beautiful Lake Cumberland in my congressional district is the largest man-made lake east of the Mississippi. Located within a day’s drive of 87 million Americans and with over 1,200 miles of pristine coastline, it’s the ideal location for families to enjoy a week or a weekend on a houseboat. Indeed – Lake Cumberland was once the houseboat capital of America, but that all abruptly changed when a major Corps rehabilitation project coincided with the downturn of the U.S. economy in 2007. The Corps had to lower the lake by some 43 feet to repair damage to Wolf Creek Dam, and the houseboat business was all but decimated. "It took 7 years to complete this project and restore lake levels, but I am proud to say that Lake Cumberland is open for business! Unfortunately, the Corps has not been as eager as others to bring back the vibrant houseboat industry that once flourished in this region, or to support the emerging floating cabin industry that promises to make lake life accessible to more and more vacationers. "With Chairman Shuster’s support, we added bipartisan language to the last WRDA bill to ensure that floating cabins – once garnering safety approval by the U.S. Coast Guard – would be permitted on Corps lakes. However, the Corps has since found new and creative ways to continue banning floating cabins from their lakes – particularly through the promulgation of overly burdensome guidance with requirements far more stringent than those health and safety standards expected by the Coast Guard. "The Coast Guard has successfully safeguarded our maritime system since its creation in 1790, and it is therefore the Coast Guard that should be the lead federal agency in regulating the vessels that navigate our federal waterways. Today’s amendment simply reinforces congressional intent to ensure that there is ONE standard for these floating cabins, and that is the standard set by the U.S. Coast Guard. Safety should always remain our highest priority, and I am confident these cabins will create exciting new opportunities at Lake Cumberland and other Corps lakes. I urge you all to support this amendment, and I yield back." The U.S. Senate recently passed similar legislation. Watch Congressman Rogers' floor speech in support of "floating cabins" on Lake Cumberland Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. ###
09.28.2016	House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today applauded the passage of critical legislation that would continue funding for the Federal Government beyond the end of the fiscal year on September 30. The Continuing Resolution (CR) will provide funding at the current rate of operations for the government through December 9, 2016. It also includes the full year Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, $1.1 billion in emergency funding to fight and prevent the spread of the Zika virus, $500 million in grants to help states recover from recent floods, and $37 million to help fight the nation’s opioid epidemic. Chairman Rogers made the following statement on the legislation: “This is a necessary bill that will keep the government open and operating, provide resources for our service members and veterans, and address critical needs across our country related to the Zika virus, the opioid epidemic, and the recent, disastrous floods. “I have said many times before, a continuing resolution is a last resort. But, it is what we must do to fulfill our congressional responsibility to keep the lights on in our government. This legislation is a good compromise, and I am pleased the House has voted today to send it to the President’s desk.” BILL HIGHLIGHTS AVOIDS GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN Funds government operations at $1.067 trillion—the same as FY 16 Contains an additional $37 million in funding to fight the opioid epidemic Continues a provision that stops an Obama SEC rule that would force all publicly traded corporations to disclose their political contributions Provides an additional $500 million in grants to states affected by recent, devastating flooding to help families and communities rebuild and recover PROVIDES FUNDING TO FIGHT AND PREVENT ZIKA Provides $1.1 billion to stop the spread of Zika Includes $400 million in offsets Targets funding for mosquito control, response and readiness in high-risk states/territories Funds vaccines and diagnostic test research to ensure they are available to the public quickly and safely Supports health care for mothers, children, and others experiencing complications in areas with the highest rates of transmission Implements strong oversight, including funds for the Inspectors General of HHS and USAID Reiterates strong protections against the use of this funding for abortions SUPPORTS MILITARY INFRASTRUCTURE AND VETERANS CARE Totals $82.5 billion — an increase of $2.6 billion above current levels—to support our troops and veterans Provides $74.4 billion in funding for the VA — $2.9 billion above FY16 levels — including an increase to address the backlog of disability claims and funds to support the modernization of the electronic health record In Mount Vernon, Kentucky 600 new jobs were recently added at SourceHOV to ramp up operations to digitize Veterans claims. Sustains quality housing for 1.3 million military families Includes funding to care for 9.8 million troops and families at military medical facilities Prohibits the closure of Guantanamo Bay and the construction of any facilities to house detainees in the U.S. or its territories Improves oversight at the VA to address mismanagement, stop waste, and better serve our veterans #####
09.26.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the Synthetic Drug Control Act (H.R. 3537) to criminalize the sales of highly-potent, chemically-produced drugs like "bath salts" and "flakka." The bill targets synthetic drugs that are widely available online and at retail shops. Many synthetic or "designer" drugs are labeled 'not for human consumption' to avoid regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). "Synthetic drugs are being sold legally across the country, despite warnings that they can be more addictive and deadly than illicit drugs, like heroin. With this bill, we aim to take synthetic drugs off the market and hold drug dealers accountable," said Congressman Rogers, a co-sponsor of the bill. "More than 1,200 people died from drug overdose deaths in Kentucky last year, making every life-saving effort more critical with each passing day." The Synthetic Drug Control Act would classify more synthetic drug compounds, identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), as Schedule I narcotics. It also holds distributors accountable and strengthens the Federal Analogue Act by criminalizing the sale, manufacture, import and distribution of synthetic drugs. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill, which now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. #####
09.22.2016	On Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of common sense federal legislation to rein in high-cost regulations through the "Require Evaluation before Implementing Executive Wishlists Act of 2016" (H.R. 3438) or the "REVIEW Act." The REVIEW Act aims to stop waste and abuse by requiring federal agencies to postpone the effective date of any new billion-dollar rule, if the rule is challenged in court within 60 days. "We've seen the direct impact of erroneous federal rules in the coalfields of Eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Rogers. "Over the last eight years, the Obama Administration has imposed more than 20 billion-dollar rules, many of which require costly compliance deadlines despite the fact that they are being challenged in court. For example, earlier this year, the Supreme Court blocked the EPA's new regulations for carbon emissions at coal-fired power plants. However, the coal-fired power plants had already moved forward with plans to omit coal, in an effort to remain compliant if regulations were upheld in court. Unfortunately, the cost to transition away from coal was detrimental to the industry, costing the Appalachian region thousands of jobs in one of the poorest parts of the country." The REVIEW Act would provide employers with assurance that they would have ample time to comply with new, costly regulations when new rules are challenged in court. The legislation also gives agencies an incentive to find lower-cost solutions to regulatory problems. The REVIEW Act was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and now heads to the Senate for consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. #####
09.21.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) invites all high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to attend two U.S. Service Academy Information Fairs to learn more about the application and nomination process. The service academies - U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy -- provide students interested in military careers the opportunity to pursue a top-notch education. In addition to applying for the academies, students may request a Congressional nomination. "I count it a great honor to nominate a limited number of our brightest and most successful students to our U.S. Service Academies each year, as they pursue a career of service to this great nation. It is my hope that these information sessions will help simplify and streamline the application process for our students," said Congressman Rogers. "Now, more than ever, our country needs brave young men and women in leadership positions throughout the United States Armed Forces, and there is no better place to begin than our prestigious academies." Students living in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District can choose to attend one of two information sessions, including: Tuesday, September 27th at the London Community Center 529 South Main Street in London, Kentucky Thursday, September 29th at Prestonsburg High School 825 Blackcat Boulevard in Prestonsburg, Kentucky Registration begins at 6:30 p.m. and the events will start at 7:00 p.m. A representative from each of the five academies will be present to help answer questions. Students can RSVP or request more information by contacting Carlos Cameron at carlos.cameron@mail.house.gov or by calling 606-679-8346. Click here to download a flyer for your school or community. Click here to download a fact sheet. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. #####
09.16.2016	FRANKFORT, Ky. (Sept. 16, 2016) - Today Gov. Matt Bevin and U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers announced that the state’s broadband initiative, KentuckyWired, is moving forward with the initial build out in eastern Kentucky followed by the rest of the state. Since announced last year, significant progress has been made in engineering, site design and surveys along with strategic partnership agreements and more. “Access to a skilled workforce is a critical factor for attracting employers, and is vital to making Kentucky’s economy robust and sustainable,” said Gov. Bevin. “Connecting companies and Kentuckians with high-speed, high-capacity Internet will lead to new opportunities and business growth. This will be a tremendous tool in growing our local economies and developing our workforce. Our administration is fully committed to the KentuckyWired project and we are excited at the possibilities before us as a result of its completion.” “We are already getting a glimpse into the high-tech opportunities that will be available to Eastern Kentucky and across the Commonwealth with access to high-speed, high capacity broadband,” said Congressman Rogers, co-founder and co-chair of SOAR. “New jobs are being created through high-tech businesses, like BitSource in Pikeville and Interapt in Louisville, and grant funds have already been awarded to support planning projects for economic development and education. We are clearly on the right path and our future is looking brighter in our most rural communities.” Earlier this year, the Kentucky Communications Network Authority (KCNA), the entity overseeing KentuckyWired, entered into strategic agreements with Cincinnati Bell Telephone System (CBTS) and most recently with East Kentucky Network LLC (EKN) to partner on broadband network construction in north/central and eastern Kentucky. The EKN partnership covers 21 counties in eastern Kentucky and will tie into the main trunk line from northern Kentucky. The Cincinnati Bell partnership is critical in that it is one of two key gateways—along with Louisville—to the worldwide web points of presence. A presence in both Cincinnati and in Louisville provides redundancy in case one site has issues. Without these links, KentuckyWired would just be a network within the state with no connections to the high-speed, high-capacity Internet. “Cincinnati Bell is pleased to partner with the State of Kentucky on this important initiative,” said Gary Peddicord, General Manager, Carrier Services, for Cincinnati Bell. “Cincinnati Bell has a long history of supporting economic development efforts in the communities we serve, and broadband connectivity is a key part of creating jobs and opportunity in Kentucky.” “EKN partner companies have been in business more than 60 years,” said Allen Gillum, CEO and General Manager of EKN. “We are happy to be a part of KentuckyWired and to bring our experience and resources to this important project.” These agreements highlight KCNA’s ongoing commitment to work with existing infrastructure companies to efficiently and economically improve broadband services in the Commonwealth. Additional strategic partnership discussions are currently underway throughout the Commonwealth. The KentuckyWired middle-mile network, a public-private-partnership with the Macquarie Group, will consist of more than 3,000 miles of fiber optic cable and more than 1,000 government and post-secondary education sites that will be connectivity points in communities for local internet service providers to tap into for last-mile service to customers. Preparation work has already taken place at nearly 100 government, university and community college sites in eastern and northern Kentucky. “The KentuckyWired project levels the mountains and the playing field for the people of eastern Kentucky to compete in the global, data-driven economy,” said Dr. Devin Stephenson, president of Big Sandy Community and Technical College. “This is the single most important investment in economic and workforce development that will have a profound impact on the entire Commonwealth, from Pikeville to Paducah.” Before extending fiber throughout Kentucky, KCNA is working with local/regional telecommunications and utility companies on agreements to attach cable to utility poles owned by those companies. These local and regional providers are important partners to ensure the network is built throughout the Commonwealth. KCNA has entered into agreements with 100 percent of the utility pole owning companies in eastern and northern Kentucky and is rapidly nearing completion on the agreements necessary to complete the initiative throughout the Commonwealth. Cincinnati Bell will improve its existing network and will construct 166 miles of fiber optic cable in Kenton, Boone, Pendleton, Grant and Gallatin counties as well as the communities of Falmouth, Williamstown, Newport, Covington, Florence, Erlanger, Highland Heights, Fort Mitchell, Fort Thomas and Warsaw. EKN will construct approximately 305 miles of fiber optic cable in their service areas. The construction will cover a significant portion of eastern Kentucky including Lawrence, Elliott, Morgan, Menifee, Wolfe, Powell, Estill, Lee, Breathitt, Magoffin, Johnson, Martin, Floyd, Pike, Knott, Perry, Owsley, Jackson, Clay, Leslie, and Letcher counties, and the communities of Louisa, Sandy Hook, West Liberty, Frenchburg, Stanton, Irvine, Beattyville, Campton, Salyersville, Paintsville, Inez, Pikeville, Prestonsburg, Whitesburg, Hindman, Booneville, Hazard, Manchester, McKee and Hyden. Watch KentuckyWired press conference highlights. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - A hand-painted portrait of U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was unveiled today in honor of his six years of service as the 31st Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. His portrait will be displayed on the walls of the historic U.S. House Appropriations chambers along with 20 of the Committee's former chairmen. "I'm humbled and honored to join the ranks of such monumental figures in our nation's history," said Rogers. "Over the last six years, we have worked tirelessly to restore public trust in the federal funding process, cutting out waste while supporting programs that improve the lives of Americans. Marked improvements need to be made in the coming years to more effectively control spending, but I am proud of the work of this Committee since 2011." Rogers has been a member of the Appropriations Committee since 1983 and was tapped in December 2010 by the House GOP Steering Committee to take the helm of the nation's purse strings. Charged with the responsibility of managing the nation's entire discretionary budget, Chairman Rogers has proven to be an authority on cutting wasteful spending, enhancing transparency and restoring regular order to the appropriations process. Rogers navigated through a difficult economic climate, while remaining focused on the needs of his home district covering southern and eastern Kentucky. Under Chairman Rogers' leadership, the Committee has held 650 budget and oversight hearings and Republicans have cut the discretionary budget by $126 billion since fiscal year (FY) 2010. Appropriations action under the Republican House Majority will result in $2 trillion in discretionary outlay savings through FY 2026. Rogers is the third Kentuckian to serve as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Congressman William Natcher (D) was chair for one term from 1993 to 1994 and Congressman J. Swager Sherley (D) was chair for a single term from 1918 to 1919, while Rogers is the first Republican. This year marks Rogers' sixth and final year as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. The GOP adopted a self-imposed six-year cap for committee chairmanships in 1994. Chairman Rogers' portrait was painted by artist, Leslie Bowman. ###
09.02.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Andrea Begley, a life-long resident of Leslie County, as his new Field Representative for the Kentucky River area. Begley is based in Rogers' district office in Hazard, Kentucky and now serves Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry Counties. "As a native of Leslie County, Andrea knows, first-hand, the challenges we face, as well as the successes that we need to build upon," said Congressman Rogers. "Her experience in the public and private sectors will be beneficial to local families, business owners and local leaders. I am confident she will serve the people of this region with the utmost integrity." Begley brings a wealth of experience to the Rogers' team as both a private, small-business owner and former county employee. She is a graduate of Eastern Kentucky University where she earned a Bachelor's Degree in Political Science with a minor in Public Administration. "As I dropped off my six-year-old daughter for her first day of school, she asked what inspired me to take my new job. My immediate response, 'the opportunity to help people in Eastern Kentucky!'" said Begley. "Congressman Rogers has worked tirelessly for Eastern Kentucky and I am honored to be able to work for him in his efforts to improve the opportunities available in the region now and for our future generations." Begley joins Rogers' staff as Field Representative Nick Camic leaves his post to attend graduate school. Begley will be working along-side Field Representatives Carlos Cameron and Adam Rice. Begley lives in Leslie County with her husband Tate and their two children. She can be reached in the Hazard office at 606-439-0794 or andrea.begley@mail.house.gov. Rogers and New Field Representative Andrea Begley #####
08.31.2016	"Station, this is Congressman Hal Rogers with students from Leslie County High School in Kentucky, do you hear me?" asked Congressman Hal Rogers as he opened a live video call to the International Space Station today from the Hazard Community and Technical College's School of Bluegrass and Traditional Music in Hyden. NASA's Expedition 48 Commander Jeff Williams and Flight Engineer Kate Rubins welcomed Congressman Rogers, along with 500 high school students, administrators, community members and leaders from the Hazard Community and Technical College aboard the International Space Station for a live 20-minute interactive video call. "The work that NASA is doing in space has been turned into groundbreaking science back on Earth," said Congressman Rogers. "We need that same spirit of innovation and ingenuity to help us revitalize Eastern Kentucky and inspire the future generation of leaders at Leslie County High School and students all across the region." Congressman Rogers requested the live video call to the International Space Station and a personal visit from Astronaut Tim Kopra to help educate and inspire local students in a coal-producing county that has been devastated by hundreds of layoffs in the coalfields. Leslie County now employs less than 200 coal miners, down from nearly 900 just five years ago, according to the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet. Despite challenges in the local economy, students at Leslie County High School are making impressive strides in state testing scores, earning the school a distinguished rating for the last three years. "How close are we to a propulsion system that will allow interstellar travel?" asked student, Austin Clark. "When you do botanical experiments in space, how do the plants know which way to send their roots with gravity?" asked student, Shaun Baker. "How have you adapted your exercise routines in response to the lack of gravity?" asked Shelby Sparks. The interactive call was broadcast live on NASA TV and on nasa.gov/nasatv where rebroadcasts will be available. Congressman Rogers congratulated Commander Williams for breaking a new record last week for the most days in space for any American, with more than 520 cumulative days. He also wished the crew luck as they prepare for a spacewalk on Thursday, September 1st outside of the International Space Station. Prior to the live video call, Astronaut Tim Kopra also spoke to students and a joint meeting held by the Hyden-Leslie County Chamber of Commerce and Trail Town initiative. "The first sight of the Earth once you get into space is pretty tremendous thing and maybe even as striking as the Earth is seeing this tremendous space station - larger than a football field, the interior similar to a three or four bedroom home," said Col. Kopra who lived on the International Space Station from December 2015 to June 2016 and worked with British and Russian Astronauts. "In my mind its a shining star of how international relations can work." NASA representatives presented a photo of the International Space Station to Congressman Rogers; Anthony Little, Leslie County Schools Superintendent; and Dr. Jennifer Lindon, President of the Hazard Community and Technical College. Rogers Welcomes to Col. Kopra to Hyden, Ky. Rogers Opens Live Video Call with the International Space Station Col. Kopra Speaks to Hyden-Leslie Co. Chamber of Commerce & Trail Town #####
08.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds a $2.75 million federal grant awarded to the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP) in Hazard, Kentucky to create 160 new jobs and train 200 new workers for technology-based careers. The competitive award for EKCEP's new TechHire Eastern Kentucky (TEKY) Initiative: Developing a Technology-Driven Workforce project, was announced today by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) as part of the Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative that Rogers helped fund through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "In this new technology age, our workforce in Eastern Kentucky needs to be a well-trained 'tech-force' to capitalize on the growing number of technology-based companies and jobs. With this grant, we will be able to fill positions for a private company that is gearing up to do high-tech work in our region, utilizing the best workforce in the country," said Congressman Rogers. "This federal funding complements the grassroots efforts of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region, as we work to revitalize southern and eastern Kentucky and rebound from the devastating loss of more than 11,000 coal mining jobs over the last eight years. Specifically, TEKY will dovetail nicely with the KentuckyWired project that will expand high-speed, high-capacity broadband through every county in our region, opening the door for new high-tech opportunities." The TEKY project will serve young adults aged 17-29 who are out of school, and older adults who are unemployed, laid-off, or underemployed by offering several avenues to industry-led accelerated technology training, paid work-based internships, and employment opportunities in information technology (IT) careers. “The projects and awards we are celebrating today help communities persevere and flourish as they deal with the challenges presented by the coal economy,” said Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. “POWER invests in jobs and workers, and develops and implements strategies and projects that can help transform these respective regions, states, and our nation.” EKCEP's comprehensive workforce development initiative will train 200 new workers, create 160 jobs, and bolster existing and emerging sectors that rely on a skilled IT workforce in 23 Eastern Kentucky counties. "Appalachian communities are actively engaged in creating diverse local economies that are resilient, sustainable and strong." said ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl. "Local leaders and entrepreneurs will use these investments to develop, direct and implement economic diversification initiatives which will have long lasting impact." In total, the ARC and EDA announced $13.7 million for four projects in southern and eastern Kentucky. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has worked to increase federal investments in distressed central Appalachian coal communities. In the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, funding for ARC was $51 million above the President's budget request and funding for EDA's program to assist coal mining communities was 50% higher than in 2015. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. #####
08.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds a $7.4 million federal grant awarded to the University of Pikeville (UPIKE) to help establish the new Kentucky College of Optometry (KYCO). The competitive award was announced today by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA). The grant is part of the Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative that Rogers helped fund through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "The University of Pikeville is growing by leaps and bounds, offering new programs, like this new optometry school, that expand the portfolio of our workforce and provide more opportunities to keep our best and brightest students at here at home," said Congressman Rogers. "This federal funding complements the grassroots efforts of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region, as we work to revitalize southern and eastern Kentucky and rebound from the devastating loss of more than 11,000 coal mining jobs over the last eight years." The federal funds will be used to purchase equipment, instructional supplies, and other materials to help launch the new optometry school. KYCO will both grow the healthcare workforce and improve access to vision care in Central Appalachia. "The University of Pikeville is deeply grateful for the significant leadership and support provided by Congressman Rogers. Progressive programs and initiatives, like the Kentucky College of Optometry, are essential to the growth of our region, as well as advancements in healthcare access and professional recruitment," said Burton Webb, Ph.D., President of the University of Pikeville. "Together, we can shape a brighter future for Kentucky's Appalachian region and UPIKE is proud to help lead the way." KYCO will be only the second optometry college in the Appalachian Region, and will primarily serve Eastern Kentucky, Southern West Virginia, and Southwestern Virginia. Within the first three years of the award, KYCO plans to graduate 60 optometrists, provide care to 12,000 patients, and create a direct economic impact of $26 million to the regional economy. “The projects and awards we are celebrating today help communities persevere and flourish as they deal with the challenges presented by the coal economy,” said Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. “POWER invests in jobs and workers, and develops and implements strategies and projects that can help transform these respective regions, states, and our nation.” UPIKE's funding includes a $4,974,100 EDA grant and a $2,500,000 ARC grant for KYCO. "Appalachian communities are actively engaged in creating diverse local economies that are resilient, sustainable and strong." said ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl. "Local leaders and entrepreneurs will use these investments to develop, direct and implement economic diversification initiatives which will have long lasting impact." In total, the ARC and EDA announced $13.7 million for four projects in southern and eastern Kentucky. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has worked to increase federal investments in distressed central Appalachian coal communities. In the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, funding for ARC was $51 million above the President's budget request and funding for EDA's program to assist coal mining communities was 50% higher than in 2015. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
08.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds a $1.46 million federal grant awarded to the University of Kentucky Research Foundation for a new Downtown Revitalization in the Promise Zone project. The project is expected to create 24 new downtown businesses, 72 new jobs and leverage $800,00 in private investment. The competitive award was announced today by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) as part of the Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative that Rogers helped fund through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "We have some of the most beautiful and unique downtown areas in the country, and it's time to fill those empty storefronts and put people back to work on Main Street," said Congressman Rogers. "This federal funding complements the grassroots efforts of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region, as we work to revitalize southern and eastern Kentucky and rebound from the devastating loss of more than 11,000 coal mining jobs over the last eight years." This project -- partnering with the Community and Economic Development Initiative of Kentucky, the Foundation for Appalachian Kentucky, the Kentucky Promise Zone, Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR), and the Kentucky Main Street Program – will help revitalize the downtowns of eight distressed towns in the Southeastern Kentucky Promise Zone. “The projects and awards we are celebrating today help communities persevere and flourish as they deal with the challenges presented by the coal economy,” said Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. “POWER invests in jobs and workers, and develops and implements strategies and projects that can help transform these respective regions, states, and our nation.” The Downtown Revitalization in the Promise Zone project will provide each community with tailored economic studies that identify economic opportunities, support strategic planning sessions to capitalize on those opportunities, provide financial support for key steps to implement those strategies, and build local leadership and business capacity. "Appalachian communities are actively engaged in creating diverse local economies that are resilient, sustainable and strong." said ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl. "Local leaders and entrepreneurs will use these investments to develop, direct and implement economic diversification initiatives which will have long lasting impact." In total, the ARC and EDA announced $13.7 million for four projects in southern and eastern Kentucky. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has worked to increase federal investments in distressed central Appalachian coal communities. In the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, funding for ARC was $51 million above the President's budget request and funding for EDA's program to assist coal mining communities was 50% higher than in 2015. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. #####
08.16.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has approved a grant totaling $429,312 for the Southeast Kentucky Industrial Development Authority in Corbin, Kentucky. The funding will be used to construct a new access road, as well as new water and sewer lines to support North America Sticks, a new manufacturing plant that will create 90 new jobs and invest at least $15 million into a new facility on site. "Without question, job creation is at the top of the priority list in southern and eastern Kentucky, and the first step to business recruitment is ensuring the infrastructure is in place to support business needs. This ARC grant will lay the groundwork for North America Sticks' Corbin facility, so they can hire employees and start production as soon as possible," said Congressman Rogers. "This project works in concert with the mission of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region - to leverage public-private partnerships to create jobs and promote innovative opportunities in our region. I applaud Governor Matt Bevin for his diligent efforts to recruit the company's first North American facility to be located in Corbin, Kentucky." North America Sticks is owned and operated by Euro Sticks Group, a French family-owned business that manufactures popsicle sticks and coffee stirring sticks. The facility is scheduled to open January 2017. "On behalf of the Board of Directors for the Southeast Kentucky Industrial Development Authority, I would like to thank Gov. Matt Bevin, Congressman Hal Rogers, Sandy Dunahoo at the Kentucky Department for Local Government and the Appalachian Regional Commission for their assistance in obtaining this ARC Grant for infrastructure improvements for the North America Sticks Project," said Bruce Carpenter, Executive Director of the Corbin Economic Development Agency and the Southeast Kentucky Industrial Development Authority. "Their help has been instrumental in moving this project forward." The Southeast Kentucky Industrial Development Authority serves Bell, Clay, Knox, Laurel, McCreary and Whitley Counties. For more information on the Southeast Kentucky Business Park, please visit www.sekbp.com To learn more about North America Sticks, visit Kentucky.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
07.13.2016	In response to the nation's rapidly growing prescription drug abuse and heroin epidemic, the U.S. House and Senate have passed the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), S. 524 - marking the nation's most comprehensive opioid addiction legislation in nearly 40 years. It now heads to the President's desk for his signature. "We know the pain of drug abuse far too well in Kentucky, where we continue to lose more lives to drug overdoses than car crashes every year," said Congressman Hal Rogers, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "In our region, Operation UNITE has successfully implemented a multi-pronged approach to combat this unique challenge incorporating enforcement, treatment and education - and I am proud that this holistic model is being replicated on the national scale with CARA. There is no question that this important legislation will save lives, and I applaud both chambers for prioritizing this issue. I urge the President to sign it into law so we can turn the tide on this devastating epidemic." CARA authorizes $180 million in new funding to address the opioid crisis this year. Furthermore, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that savings generated from targeted spending in this legislation will reduce the federal deficit by $47 billion over the next ten years. Last Friday, the U.S. House of Representatives proved its strong support of CARA with an overwhelming vote of 407-5. Today, the U.S. Senate followed suit by sending the legislation on to the President's desk with a vote of 92-2. Nearly half a million people died from drug overdoses from 2000 to 2014, with 78 Americans dying every day from an opioid overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In an effort to reduce overdose deaths and prevent addiction across the country, CARA makes a number of changes that will impact Kentucky, including: Prevention and Education A Pain Management Best Practices Inter-Agency Task Force will be established to review, modify and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication. The bill authorizes additional funds to support community-wide prevention strategies, such as the Drug-Free Communities Programs, and supports grants for a state-based comprehensive opioid abuse response, including education, treatment and recovery efforts, maintaining prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs), and preventing overdose deaths. Additional resources are included for naloxone dispensing, training and education. The legislation targets efforts to assist state PDMPs in sharing data across state lines and increase access to PDMPs for prescribers through integration with e-health technology. It includes new requirements for FDA to consult with advisory committees prior to approval or labeling of new opioids in pediatric populations. The legislation also advances efforts to inject abuse deterrent formulations (ADF) of prescription painkillers into the marketplace by requiring FDA to issue final guidance for generic drugs that claim abuse deterrence. FDA must also develop recommendations regarding prescriber education to ensure the medical community fully understands the risks associated with prescribing narcotic pain medications. Enforcement and Criminal Justice Reform An additional $103 million is authorized for a comprehensive grant program to fund alternative programs to incarceration, first responder training, investigation, treatment, PDMPs and take-back programs. For the first time, local or regional non-profits, including faith-based organizations, will be able to petition states to help administer these programs. The bill expands drug take-back programs by coordinating with state and local law enforcement agencies, manufacturers and distributors of prescription medications, retail pharmacies, narcotic treatment programs, hospitals and long-term care facilities. CARA requires the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study ways to mitigate consequences for individuals with convictions for non-violent drug-related offenses. Treatment and Recovery Support The legislation makes a significant investment in evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention demonstrations to help states expand access to addiction treatment services. CARA expands access to treatment by allowing nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs) who meet certain criteria to dispense certain drugs for maintenance and detoxification treatment for a limited number of patients. The bill also provides grant funding for residential treatment for pregnant and postpartum women, as well as their children who may suffer from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). In 2003, Congressman Rogers launched Operation UNITE, a non-profit organization that utilities a multi-pronged approach to combat drug abuse in southern and eastern Kentucky through law enforcement, treatment and education. Over the last five years, Operation UNITE has hosted the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, the nation's largest collaboration of stakeholders and federal, state and local leaders in an effort to examine challenges and implement effective solutions to save lives across the country. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. ###
06.28.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) celebrated "Homeownership Month" in America alongside Tony Hernandez, Administrator of Rural Housing Service and Community Facilities for the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD), as well as state and local officials at the Senior Citizens Center in McCreary County. The event highlighted federal resources that are available to help low-income families purchase or rehabilitate a home. "Thanks to USDA's low-interest loan programs, the dream of owning or repairing a home can be a reality for even our very low-income families," said Congressman Rogers. "In Kentucky alone, the USDA's single-family housing direct loan programs have assisted more than 1,900 families with more than $103 million since 2013." According to the USDA, Kentucky has the sixth highest number of families in the country who have participated in USDA low-interest loan programs for housing over the last three years. During the same time period, the Commonwealth ranks number one for homeowners who have utilized Section 504 loans to help repair their homes. "Homeownership is the first step to the American dream," said Tony Hernandez. "This year our theme is 'Building Communities Together' and here in Kentucky, we have a tremendous number of partners to help us build success." Together, Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation, Southern Tier Housing Corporation, the Federation of Appalachian Housing (FAHE), and the McCreary County Community Housing Development Corporation assisted long-time McCreary County resident, Ina Canada, rehabilitate her home. The partnership enabled Canada to install new windows, make exterior improvements, electrical repairs, and install a new heating and cooling system and new fire alarms. "She bought that home with her husband before he passed on and she didn't want to leave her home, so we helped make it safe for her and her family," said Tom Manning-Beavin, President of Southern Tier Housing Corporation. "We are pleased that she trusted us to help rehabilitate her home." As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers is already working on funding for USDA's rural housing programs in the fiscal year 2017 House Agriculture Appropriations Bill. The legislation includes $30 million in Mutual and Self-Help Housing, $26.2 million for Section 504 Housing Repair Loans, and $1 billion for Section 502 Direct Loans. The 502 loan funding reflects an increase of $100 million above the President's request to meet increased demand for those loans in rural regions. (Pictured above, left to right: Tony Hernandez, USDA Rural Housing Service Administrator; U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, Ina Canada, local homeowner; Tom Fern, USDA-Rural Development, Kentucky Director; Jerry Rickett, Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation, President/CEO) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him onTwitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
06.17.2016	Today, Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Co-Chairs U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers and Gov. Matt Bevin announced more than 600 jobs are now available at SourceHOV in Mount Vernon, Kentucky. "Our best resource is our people and this jobs announcement is a testament to the talent, hard-work and dedication of our workforce in southern and eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Hal Rogers. "I applaud SourceHOV for investing in our region and providing good jobs for more than two decades. It's this type of commitment that lets other companies know that Kentucky's Appalachian region is a great place to do business." CSRA was awarded a competitive federal contract from the Department of Veterans Affairs and subcontracted the work to SourceHOV to help digitize records and reduce the nationwide backlog of Veterans' claims. "We are thankful for SourceHOV's continued investment in Kentucky. We look forward to the further benefits that will come as they expand our relationship and partner with SOAR to provide jobs in our eastern counties," said Gov. Matt Bevin. "We are working every day to make the Commonwealth the best place in America to do business, and are grateful to SourceHOV for leading the way for others to follow." Dallas-based SourceHOV is partnering with the SOAR initiative by creating more jobs in southern and eastern Kentucky, as it continues to expand its transaction processing capabilities. SourceHOV is now hiring general clerks, team leads and quality assurance specialists with pay rates beginning at $10.52 an hour. More information is available at http://www.sourcehov.com/careers. "SourceHOV has been a part of the Mount Vernon community for more than 24 years and contributes more than $11M to the Commonwealth of Kentucky," said Ron Cogburn, CEO of SourceHOV. "We're excited to expand operations in the area and offer even more opportunities." About SOAR: SOAR is a network of Kentucky's Appalachian region, uniting 54 counties to expand job creation, enhance regional innovation, and improve the quality of life. Learn more about SOAR at soar-ky.org. About SourceHOV: SourceHOV is a global Transaction Processing Services and Enterprise Information Management leader. SourceHOV provides services and solutions for high-volume, mission-critical organizations seeking to drive efficiency with their business processes. By leveraging specialized knowledge platforms that are powered by decades of expertise and customer-specific experience, we deliver innovative end-to-end solutions, incorporating data aggregation, workflow, analytics, payment processing, exception management and outcome resolutions. ###
06.06.2016	PIKEVILLE, Ky. (June 6, 2016) – The Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) grassroots, non-profit organization highlighted more than 130 innovative projects in southern and eastern Kentucky today during the 2016 SOAR Innovation Summit. SOAR co-chairs, Governor Matt Bevin and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers kicked off the third summit with more than 1,000 people in attendance. “They say that necessity is the mother of invention. Well, we are here to invent,” said Congressman Rogers. “Less than 4,000 coal miners are now employed in eastern Kentucky, so the need for innovation has never been greater. SOAR gives us a chance at this crossroads in time to redouble our efforts and inspire new opportunities for job creation and a better way of life.” “The American Dream is alive and well, and the opportunity for it to be realized is great in small communities here in eastern Kentucky,” said Gov. Bevin. “We have the opportunity to infuse our young people with values that make America great, a respect for God and a respect for our country. A lot of good work is happening in this community. Let us continue to pour into that. “In past summits, the idea was bantered about to create some kind of permanent fund, the proceeds of which would fund projects in coal country. It gives me great pleasure to announce that in this last budget we put $15 million in an endowment that will be used coming from coal severance money, and other money we have,” continued Gov. Bevin. Since becoming co-chair of SOAR in January, Gov. Bevin has led the charge for state projects that will spur innovation in Kentucky’s Appalachian region through the Kentucky Appalachian Regional Development (KARD) fund. Last month, the SOAR Executive Committee approved $1.5 million for eleven projects in the region. The goal of the summit is to inspire new innovative opportunities throughout southern and eastern Kentucky to help diversify the economy, connect leaders and promote local talent that can be used to reimagine the future of the region. Ankur Gopal, CEO of Interapt, LLC in Louisville announced the creation of 50 new jobs for Eastern Kentuckians who are interested in learning how to code. They will be trained at the Big Sandy Community and Technical College as part of the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Progam's TechHire initiative. Gopal said newly trained employees will work for Interapt remotely in eastern Kentucky. "It's exciting to see the energy in this arena from local people who are ready and willing to invest their time and efforts to improve our hometowns," said Jared Arnett, Executive Director of SOAR. "We highlighted some innovators that are already helping change the region in an effort to inspire more innovation and replicate the programs that can be implemented in neighboring counties. Together, we are shaping a better future." The morning session included keynotes from Tom Wheeler, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), who focused on how connectivity drives innovation; Dr. Tom Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), who spoke about innovations in rural healthcare; and Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), who has invested in innovation through a number of projects in the region, including SOAR. Other keynote speakers included Dr. Roberto Gallardo from the Mississippi State University Extension's Intelligent Community Institute; Bob Schena, President and CEO of Rajant; Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers; Kentucky House Speaker Greg Stumbo; State Rep. Leslie Combs; and Sandy Dunahoo, Commissioner of the Kentucky Department for Local Government. During afternoon breakout sessions, attendees participated in three discussions entitled “Successes and Challenges in Rural Health,” “TechHire and the Digital Economy,” and “AML Economic and Community Development Pilot Program.” Local government officials, community leaders and others had the opportunity to learn more about a new $30 million Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) pilot project that infuses funding back into former coalfields to be reused for economic development. Congressman Rogers helped secure federal funding for the pilot this year and Governor Bevin released a granting strategy to invest the funding back into the state’s hard-hit coal communities. SOAR is a network of Kentucky's Appalachian region, uniting 54 counties to expand job creation, enhance regional innovation, and improve the quality of life. Learn more about SOAR at soar-ky.org or join the conversation on social media via Facebook and Twitter. #####
05.25.2016	Every year, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers welcomes a select group of college students for internships in the Congressional office in Washington, D.C. One of the first interns to join Rogers this summer is Addison Thompson, a Somerset High School graduate who completed his sophomore year at the University of Kentucky earlier this month. "I always enjoy working with college students from home in the Washington, D.C. office, and helping them pursue their endeavors while getting an inside look at daily congressional operations," said Rogers. "I commend Addison for planning to return to his hometown after graduating from college, so he can use his talents to help make our region a better place to live. It has always been my dream to stop exporting our brightest young minds away from home. We need the skills and innovation of students like Addison to help us shape the future of southern and eastern Kentucky." Addison is majoring in Economics with a minor in Political Science. After earning his bachelor's degree, he plans to pursue a Juris Doctorate degree and return home to Somerset to practice law with his father. Addison is a member of the Junior Interfraternity Council, Secretary for UKY Ducks Unlimited, serves as a recruitment committee member for Alpha Tau Omega, and helped his fraternity raise money for the Make-A-Wish foundation this year. His parents are Roberta and Bill Thompson of Somerset. "Being involved in Congressman Rogers’ office is a thrill, because of how much he has accomplished throughout southern and eastern Kentucky," said Thompson. "I not only believe this internship will help me develop as a prospective lawyer, but also as a U.S. Citizen. Branching out into a higher-level political atmosphere will better prepare me for the work I would like to do at some point throughout my career." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. ###
05.13.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for 18 opioid-related bills passed by the U.S. House of Representatives this week to help combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic. "For years, we have sought out a silver bullet to solve the drug abuse epidemic in this country, but the sad reality is that the scope of the problem has only magnified, and now we're losing 78 people per day to this senseless and preventative epidemic," said Rogers, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "That's why my colleagues in the House have made it a priority to respond to this crisis with a holistic, multi-pronged approach." The federal opioid-related legislation focuses on nine areas including prevention, treatment, prescribing practices, women and children, recovery, law enforcement, veterans, criminal justice and overdose reversal. Rogers encouraged his colleagues to support the bills by highlighting similar comprehensive efforts that have been a successful part of Operation UNITE's work in southern and eastern Kentucky. "UNITE has helped put more than 4,000 drug pushers behind bars, has provided free treatment vouchers to nearly 4,000 low-income individuals and organized prevention and education efforts in our communities and schools," said Rogers, who helped launch UNITE in 2003. "If we can turn things around in one the most rural parts of the country where small town gossip used to shame folks from talking about drug abuse, we can eradicate the stigma of addiction and help communities rise above the weight of this epidemic. This legislation now allows other parts of the country to duplicate what's going on in southern and eastern Kentucky." CNN.com featured an op-ed written by Congressman Rogers on Wednesday, May 11th as a part of "Anderson Cooper 360," a town hall with Anderson Cooper and Dr. Sanjay Gupta regarding prescription drug abuse. Click here to read "Opioid addiction requires action, not silver bullet." Rogers also spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday in support of these bills, and helped lead a press conference on Friday marking the passing of the following legislation: 1. H.R. 4978, NAS Healthy Babies Act 2. H.R. 3680, Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act 3. H.R. 3691, Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act 4. H.R. 1818, Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act 5. H.R. 4981, Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act 6. H.R. 4969, John Thomas Decker Act 7. H.R. 4586, Lali's Law 8. H.R. 4599, Reducing Unused Medications Act 9. H.R. 4976, Opioid Review Modernization Act 10. H.R. 4982, Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act 11. H.R. 4843, Improving Safe Care for the Prevention of Infant Abuse and Neglect Act 12. H.R. 4985, Kingpin Designation Improvement Act 13. H.R. 5048, Good Samaritan Assessment Act 14. H.R. 5052, Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act 15. H.R. 4063, Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act 16. H.R. 1725, NASPER Reauthorization Act 17. H.R. 4641, To provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication 18. H.R. 5046, Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office athttp://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. ####
05.11.2016	SOMERSET, Ky. - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. The first place winner is Jannah Halbert, a senior at Allen Central High School. Jannah submitted an oil painting entitled, "Isla Paraiso," beautifully depicting an island beach landscape with carefully executed detail and texture. Her art teacher is Kevin Slone and Jannah is the daughter of Wes and Amy Halbert of Martin, Kentucky. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight talented artists from across the country, and I'm thrilled to have our region represented by such incredible students,” said Rogers. “Jannah's artwork will be featured in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know it came from Eastern Kentucky.” As the winner from our Congressional district, Jannah's artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. She will also receive two free airline tickets to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C. this summer. Jannah is also eligible for a college scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design. The second place artwork, entitled, "Sister In Arms" was submitted by Marlee Miller, a freshman at Knox Central High School. Her graphite drawing features a military service woman from the World War II era, standing in salute with the U.S. Flag in the background. Knox Central art teacher, Molly Shields encouraged her participation. Marlee's parents are Becky Carr and Kevin Miller. The third place winner is Payton Martin, a freshman at Prestonsburg High School. His pencil drawing features a portrait of pop-singer, Ariana Grande. His art teacher is Maggie Robinette and his parents are Danny and Georgia Martin of Prestonsburg. All of the artists will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition and a letter from Congressman Rogers for their participation. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. For information about the annual competition, visit halrogers.house.gov. ###
05.10.2016	SOMERSET, Ky. - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently invited Bekkah Star Trachtenburg, a senior at Pulaski County High School, to the Somerset District Office to congratulate her on receiving a prestigious appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado. Bekkah is one of only four students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to receive a military academy nomination from Congressman Rogers this year. "I count it a great honor to support the endeavors of our brightest high school students to pursue a military career," said Congressman Rogers. "While I have the opportunity to recommend a handful of students each year, they must earn the following appointment with impeccable grades, strong character and exceptional extra curricular activities. Bekkah is an impressive student and I am grateful for her decision to serve this great Nation." Bekkah has been a member of the the JROTC throughout her high school career and serves as battalion commander of her drill team. She is also a member of the National Honor Society, the Raider Team, the Knowledge Team, Future Business Leaders of America, the Disc Golf Club and her high school soccer team. As a Link Crew Leader, she also mentors freshman students. Bekkah will graduate with a 4.1 GPA. "I'm very excited to serve in the U.S. Air Force," said Bekkah Trachtenburg. "I've already accomplished one of my life goals by being accepted into the academy. This has been one of my biggest dreams since my sophomore year." The Air Force Academy is both a military organization and a university. The mission of the Air Force Academy is to educate, train, and inspire men and women to become officers of character, motivated to lead the United States Air Force in service to our nation. To learn more about earning a Congressional military academy nomination, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office athttp://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook.
04.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently invited Noah Miller, a senior at Boyd County High School, to the Somerset District Office to congratulate him on receiving a prestigious appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Miller is one of only four students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to receive a military academy nomination from Congressman Rogers this year. "I count it a great honor to support the endeavors of our brightest high school students to pursue a military career," said Congressman Rogers. "While I have the opportunity to recommend a handful of students each year, they must earn the following appointment with impeccable grades, strong character and exceptional extra curricular activities. Noah is an impressive student and I am grateful for his decision to serve this great Nation." Noah is a member of Boyd County High School's NJROTC Athletic Team and Academic Team Commanders; the National Honor Society; he serves as president of the SkillsUSA Engineering, AutoTech and Welding chapter; and is captain of the cross-country and track teams. He is also a member of the "Strings of Whitescreek" musical group. Noah is the son of Connie and Scott Miller of Catlettsburg, Kentucky. "It is a true honor to represent my area of the country at the United States Naval Academy. I look forward to the great things that await me and the important leadership skills that I will learn at such a prestigious school," said Miller. "I couldn't have been admitted without the help of many individuals including my family, my NJROTC unit, my instructors, Congressman Hal Rogers and God. I will proudly represent and serve my country." The Naval Academy prepares young men and women to become professional officers of competence, character, and compassion in the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps. Naval Academy students are midshipmen on active duty in the U.S. Navy. They attend the academy for four years, graduating with bachelor of science degrees and commissions as ensigns in the Navy or second lieutenants in the Marine Corps. Naval Academy graduates serve at least five years in the Navy or Marine Corps. To learn more about earning a military academy nomination, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. Noah Miller & Congressman Rogers *Media Note: Right click to download high-resolution photos ###
04.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently invited McGregor Scott, II, a senior at Somerset Christian School, to the Somerset District Office to congratulate him on receiving a prestigious appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Scott is one of only four students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to receive a military academy nomination from Congressman Rogers this year. "I count it a great honor to support the endeavors of our brightest high school students to pursue a military career," said Congressman Rogers. "While I have the opportunity to recommend a handful of students each year, they must earn the following appointment with impeccable grades, strong character and exceptional extra curricular activities. McGregor is an impressive student and I am grateful for his decision to serve this great Nation." McGregor Scott, II is captain of the Somerset Christian School varsity baseball team and was named to the Boys All-State and All-Tournament Teams. He is also a member of the varsity soccer team and was named to the the Boys All-State Team. He is a member of the National Honor Society and has received numerous academic and community awards. McGregor is the son of Amy and McGregor Scott of Somerset, Kentucky. "It is an honor to represent the 5th District and Somerset, Kentucky at the US Naval Academy," said Scott. "It is humbling to be appointed to an institution with such a long tradition of leadership and service to our country. I plan to make Kentucky proud. Go Navy, beat Army!" The Naval Academy prepares young men and women to become professional officers of competence, character, and compassion in the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps. Naval Academy students are midshipmen on active duty in the U.S. Navy. They attend the academy for four years, graduating with bachelor of science degrees and commissions as ensigns in the Navy or second lieutenants in the Marine Corps. Naval Academy graduates serve at least five years in the Navy or Marine Corps. To learn more about earning a military academy nomination, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. McGregor Scott and Congressman Rogers ###
04.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recently invited Matt O'Bryan, a senior at Johnson Central High School, to the Somerset District Office to congratulate him on receiving a prestigious appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in New York. O'Bryan is one of only four students in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to receive a military academy nomination from Congressman Rogers this year. "I count it a great honor to support the endeavors of our brightest high school students to pursue a military career," said Congressman Rogers. "While I have the opportunity to recommend a handful of students each year, they must earn the following appointment with impeccable grades, strong character and exceptional extra curricular activities. Matt is an impressive student and I am grateful for his decision to serve this great Nation." O'Bryan is the valedictorian and president of his class. He also received two Commonwealth Ambassador Awards from Kentucky's Secretary of State. His parents are Jeanie and Greg O'Bryan of Leander, Kentucky. "I am honored for this wonderful opportunity to serve my country," said O'Bryan. "Go Army! Beat Navy!" West Point provides a 47-month leader-development program steeped in academic rigor, military discipline, and physical challenges, all built upon a moral-ethical foundation. Upon graduation, cadets are commissioned as second lieutenants in the U.S. Army. To learn more about earning a military academy nomination, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. Matt O'Bryan and Congressman Rogers ###
04.11.2016	A historic event took place in Middlesboro, Kentucky today as Congressman Hal Rogers joined National Park Service (NPS) rangers and leaders from the U.S. Mint to unveil a new quarter featuring the Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. It is the 32nd coin in the America the Beautiful Quarters Program. "It's so exciting to have this local historical landmark featured on a U.S. coin that will be exchanged across the world," said Congressman Rogers. "It is my hope that folks will want to learn more about Daniel Boone and the early pioneers' journey along the Wilderness Trail and through original gateway to the west. We want them to read about and visit this wonderful place that we call home." Two fourth grade students from Middlesboro Elementary, Hattie Landen and Makaya Patterson, served as masters of ceremony with more than 2,200 students in attendance from Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia. "This is the 100th birthday of the National Park Service," said Sula Jacobs, Park Superintendent. "There's no better way to connect with and create the next generation of park visitors, supporters, and advocates than by hosting a fun-filled, educational event into which visitors will be able to totally immerse themselves." Rogers launched the new quarter along with Superintendent Jacobs, NPS Deputy Director Peggy O'Dell and U.S. Mint Philadephia Plant Manager Marc Landry by pouring the coins through a display of the Cumberland Gap and the United States. To help commemorate the new quarter, the Cumberland Gap National Historical Park hosted hundreds of pioneer re-enactors, replicas of clothing, powder horns and other goods from the years 1750 to 1840, with an estimated 10,000 visitors during the three-day celebration. Rogers and other leaders at the event handed out some of the newly minted quarters to students in attendance. Jacobs, Landry, Rep. Rogers & O'Dell launch the new quarter Rogers hands out newly minted coins to students The new U.S. quarter featuring Cumberland Gap National Historical Park #####
04.07.2016	On Wednesday, the Letcher County Chamber and Planning Commission jointly honored Congressman Hal Rogers for his efforts to bring a federal penitentiary and prison camp to Letcher County. During a budget hearing in February, chaired by Rogers, Attorney General Loretta Lynch confirmed that $444 million would be used to construct a new facility in Letcher County. According to the Bureau of Prisons (BOP), the facility will create approximately 300 jobs. To celebrate progress on the project, local leaders presented Congressman Rogers with a special plaque in recognition of his work. In his acceptance remarks, Rogers credited the success to the Letcher County Planning Commission. "You made it clear that if the Bureau planned to build a new prison, you wanted it here in Letcher County, where the people of southern and eastern Kentucky make up the best workforce in the country," said Rogers. "You stormed the halls of Washington, DC in search of support and a reprieve for the hard-working, laid-off coal miners and good people of Letcher County - in the form of sustainable, good-paying jobs." Rogers said the BOP reported that the Letcher County prison project received the most positive community feedback in its history. On Monday, the final Environmental Impact Study (EIS) was released "making no change to proposed action" and marking another step forward for the project. The BOP's "Record of Decision" is expected to be released after the public comment period ends in May. The EIS executive summary states: "The purpose of the proposed federal correctional facility in Letcher County, Kentucky, is to develop additional high-security facilities to increase capacity for current inmate populations in the Mid-Atlantic Region based on an identified need for additional bedspace. The Bureau has determined that there is a need for additional high-security facilities within this region to reduce the demonstrated overcrowding that compromises the mission of the Bureau." The Bureau selected a 700-acre site on reclaimed mine land in Roxana for the facility. Click here to read the final Environmental Impact Study. Rogers receives leadership award (Left to right: Don Childers, Joe DePriest, Rep. Hal Rogers, Elwood Cornett) #####
04.05.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to participate in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Each year, the U.S. House of Representatives holds an annual art competition entitled "An Artistic Discovery" for high school students to showcase their talent and represent their congressional districts by displaying their artwork inside the U.S. Capitol building for one year, where more than three million people visit annually. Thousands of high school students participate all across the country and one winner is chosen from each congressional district. “Every year, I look forward to seeing the amazing talent of our students from southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “This competition allows us to highlight an artist from each Congressional district in the Capitol building, and I take great pride in the artwork that represents the Fifth District of Kentucky each year." The top three district winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard district offices. The winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual awards ceremony and to see their artwork on display in the Capitol building. The winner may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. Last year, Allissa Moe submitted the winning artwork from Betsy Layne High School in Floyd County, entitled "Eye on the Prize." Allissa utilized white and blue colored pencils on black paper to draw a picture of a blue-eyed bobcat. Her art teacher was Shannon Shepherd and Allissa is the daughter of Thomas and Dorian Moe of Harold. For competition guidelines, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional. Unframed artwork will be accepted, however, the winning artwork must be framed by the artist before being sent to Washington, DC for display. The framed artwork cannot exceed 28” x 28” x 4” or 15 pounds. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by Monday, May 2, 2016. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county: Prestonsburg District Office (Boyd, Carter, Floyd, Elliott, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan Counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry counties) 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Remaining artwork should be picked up no later than June 1, 2016. Click here to download the student release form. Click here to download the rules for submitting artwork. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit Congressman Rogers' online office at http://halrogers.house.gov or follow him on Twitter or Instagram @RepHalRogers, and on Facebook. Congressman Rogers with 2016 winner Allissa Moe from Betsy Layne High School #####
03.30.2016	A bi-partisan Congressional Leaders Forum highlighted efforts of federal leaders to combat the nation's drug abuse epidemic on Wednesday during the 5th National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia hosted by Operation UNITE. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (R-Ky.), founding co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, led a robust discussion between U.S. Sen. Edward Markey (D-Mass.) and Congressmen Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), William "Bill" Keating (D-Mass.), Frank Guinta (R-N.H.), Earl "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) and Evan Jenkins (R-W.Va.). "The abuse of prescription medications requires a different approach than the traditional 'War on Drugs,'" said Congressman Rogers. "Unquestionably, law enforcement has to be a part of the solution, both at the local level, where we need to keep bad actors off the streets, and at the federal level, where we need to stem the tide of heroin from streaming into our communities. We need to engage the medical community to change our prescribing practices and re-think the way we treat pain; ensuring that treatment is available for those struggling to get their lives back on track; and educating our young people and their parents about the dangers of prescription painkillers - all of these things have to be a part of a comprehensive response to this crisis." In the Fiscal Year 2016 (FY16) Omnibus Bill that passed in December, nearly $6 billion was included to address the drug abuse epidemic, including $2.12 billion for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for drug abuse prevention and treatment. In discussing the need to block the influx of Fentanyl from China into the United States, Senator Markey said, "It's just as cheap as heroin and infinitely more powerful. We have to elevate the discussion to the levels of other major issues." The FY16 HHS budget includes $70 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to help states address the challenges within their borders, $25 million for Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT), and $12 million to help train first responders on the administration of naloxone. Additionally, $400 million was included for the U.S. Department of Justice for drug task forces and other law enforcement. Congressman Keating compared the number of opioid overdose deaths in America to the polio crisis in 1916 that killed 6,000 people, and the lack of awareness surrounding overdose deaths. "We have 500% more deaths now from opioid overdoses," said Congressman Keating. "The stigma, the ignorance, the lack of attention is all being overcome right here." The United States consumes 75% of the world's painkillers, and yet Americans constitute only 5% of the world's population. Congressman Gosar advocated for more Veteran Treatment Courts nationwide. He said, "One in six veterans who served in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom suffer from a substance abuse issue." "Those we seek to help are people not statistics," said Congressman Guinta. "We need the necessary tools and resources to not only combat the problem, but to eliminate and eradicate this problem." Congressman Jenkins discussed the need for the Cradle Act, a bill he sponsored to expand care for newborns with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome by establishing facility guidelines. In West Virginia, he helped form the first residential pediatric recovery facility called, Lily's Place. "We have to give kids a healthy start at life," he said. Congressman Carter focused on the need for more pharmacists to be involved in curbing the tide of prescription drug abuse. "We are going to need help from the state boards of pharmacies," said Congressman Carter, a pharmacist by trade. "We need to tighten up medical boards and weed bad actors out. Pharmacists are among the most accessible healthcare professionals and (we) need to be more involved." All six Congressmen serve on the Congressional Caucus for Prescription Drug Abuse. #####
03.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomed a record crowd to the 5th National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, hosted by Operation UNITE, a non-profit organization working to combat the drug abuse epidemic in southern and eastern Kentucky. Nearly 2,000 people are registered to attend the four-day conference at the Westin Peachtree Plaza in Atlanta, Georgia. It is the largest collaboration of professionals devoted to finding solutions to the national drug abuse epidemic, uniting a broad spectrum of leaders from law enforcement and government, to the treatment and education communities. "The rapid growth of this summit is truly a testament to the power of unity. Everyone here has one common goal - to save lives from the dark clenches of drug abuse," said Rogers, who helped launch UNITE in 2003. "I'm proud to see UNITE in the national spotlight, where the organization's holistic approach is now being used as a national model." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), someone in America dies every 20 minutes from an opioid overdose. "UNITE renamed the summit this year, adding 'heroin' abuse to the name. Throughout our discussions this week, we will be focusing on the rapid rise in heroin overdose deaths and the direct link to prescription drug abuse," said Rogers. Rogers applauded U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack for being selected to lead President Obama's new "Rural America Opioid Initiative." The program intends to address the 76% shortage in mental illness and substance abuse service in rural areas. Secretary Vilsack was also joined by U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin and Governor Earl Ray Tomblin of West Virginia to discuss federal and state efforts to curb the tide of drug abuse. For more information about the Rx Summit, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. Congressman Rogers and Rx Summit Keynote Speakers Congressman Rogers Welcomes Attendees to the 5th National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit ####
03.23.2016	This week, during budget hearings with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) for fiscal year 2017, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) discussed ways to combat the epidemic of prescription drug and heroin abuse with CDC Director, Dr. Tom Frieden, and Acting DEA Administrator, Chuck Rosenberg. “As the abuse of opioids – including heroin – has spread to new heights across the nation, you have rightly characterized this emerging threat as an ‘epidemic.’ I thank you for dedicating your personal attention and the resources of your agency to addressing this terrible problem that has taken too many lives and touched too many families,” Rogers stated to Director Frieden. Rogers also thanked Dr. Frieden for his work in producing new Guidelines for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain. “These science-based and data-driven recommendations constitute a landmark achievement,” Rogers stated. “For too long, a narrow focus on opioids as a cure-all for pain and runaway prescribing have directly led to many of the 78 deaths each day from opioid and heroin overdoses. For the first time, doctors will have clear recommendations for what factors to consider before prescribing opioids, how much they should prescribe when warranted, how often they should check back in with their patients after sending them home, and how to respond if their patients succumb to addiction.” During his hearing with DEA Acting Administrator Rosenberg, Rogers touted the success of Operation UNITE in Kentucky. Working with the DEA and local law enforcement, UNITE has cracked down on unscrupulous doctors, confiscated hundreds of thousands of diverted prescription drugs, and put over 4,300 drug dealers in jail. Rogers discussed the DEA’s new “360 Strategy” to drive down the surge of heroin by attacking the supply chain, strengthening diversion control, and partnering with community leaders. “What I particularly appreciate about this initiative is its holistic approach. I’ve repeatedly advocated for a broad, three-pronged strategy in which enforcement, treatment, and education work in unison to combat substance abuse. It would be easy to arrest the drug dealers victimizing our citizens and claim victory, but the reality is much more complex. By broadening your partnerships with communities across the nation, you’ll be working hand-in-hand with the people closest to the problem,” Rogers stated. Rogers also thanked Administrator Rosenberg and Dr. Frieden for their participation in Operation UNITE’s National Rx Drug Abuse & Heroin Summit in Atlanta next week. Click here to watch the CDC budget hearing. Click here to watch the DEA budget hearing. ###
03.23.2016	Contact: Amanda Schoen (Larson) 860-539-4924 Danielle Smoot (Rogers) 606-679-8346 Michael Eisenstatt (Cohen) 202-225-3265 Leacy Burke (Wilson) 202-225-2452 Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY), U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT) Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) introduced The Promise Zone Job Creation Act to create new tax credits to incentivize the hiring of residents of federally-designated Promise Zones. It would also encourage new investments to bring property, equipment, or software to these hard-hit communities. “Coal country has suffered devastating and economically debilitating impacts from this Administration's war on coal. In Kentucky’s coalfields, we’ve lost nearly 11,000 coal mining jobs since 2009, making the effort to revitalize and rebuild a difficult, uphill battle,” said Rogers. “I am proud of the efforts that local leaders have already undertaken to leverage the Promise Zone designation in Eastern Kentucky, and with this legislation, we can take those efforts to the next level. I am proud to partner with this bipartisan group of members in introducing this bill, which will encourage new businesses to establish roots in the coalfields where they will find some of hardest working, dedicated workforces in the country.” “Many Promise Zone’s—like Hartford’s North End—face tremendous challenges battling poverty, homelessness, unemployment, and even violence,” said Larson. “The Promise Zone designation assures priority consideration for federal funding and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers, but I firmly believe we can do more. This bill will encourage businesses to locate within and hire residents from the Zone. I commend Chairman Rogers for his partnership as well as Mayor Luke Bronin, Thea Montanez, and local leaders like our ‘06120 Delegation’ for their dedication to improving the lives of North End residents. Every American deserves the dignity that comes from having a job, and this bill will help make that a reality for men and women who are most in need. “ “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill that will bring more jobs and economic investment to designated Promise Zones,” said Cohen. “Memphis is unfortunately ranked in the top ten of the most economically distressed cities in the United States and has the second highest unemployment rate of metropolitan areas with more than a million people. So being from Memphis, I realize the importance of the Promise Zone program to reduce concentrated poverty and increase the economic vitality of Memphis and similar cities that could be designated Promise Zone areas.” “I am grateful to be an original co-sponsor of the Promise Zone Job Creation Act of 2016 to incentivize businesses that create jobs in designated Promise Zones,” Wilson said. “I’ve seen first-hand the benefits the Promise Zone designation has had on South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. The Lowcountry SC Promise Zone, which includes Barnwell County, has created over 250 quality jobs since being designated a Promise Zone in 2015. The investment and resources have provided opportunities for the community to grow over the last year, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact of the Promise Zone in the future.” The Promise Zone Job Creation Act was originally introduced by Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) in the 113th Congress. This bipartisan, bicameral effort will establish employment tax credits and bonus depreciation to enable businesses and residents to realize more immediate economic benefits. The Promise Zone Job Creation Act will: · Create employment tax credits: This legislation would create an employment credit to be provided to businesses that employ Promise Zone residents. Credit would apply to the first $15,000 of qualifying zone employee wages. The credit rate would be 20% for zone residents who are employed within the zone and 10% for zone residents employed outside of the zone. · Establish Bonus depreciation: Qualified property placed in service within the zone would be eligible for additional first-year depreciation of 100% of the adjusted basis of the property. This includes tangible property with a recovery period of 20 years or less, water utility property, certain computer software, and qualified leasehold improvement property. The property must be placed in service within the zone while the zone designation is in effect. More information on Promise Zones can be found at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or by visiting https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/promise-zones/promise-zones-overview/. ###
03.22.2016	Today, during a budget hearing for fiscal year 2017 with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy about the Obama Administration’s War on Coal. "Good [coal] jobs are disappearing day by day, and we know that onerous regulations coming out of [EPA] are largely to blame,” Rogers stated. “I have to imagine that you understand how these regulations have led to many counties in my district grappling with 15% unemployment. But can you honestly imagine what it must be like for a miner whose father, and his father before him, all supported their families through this honorable profession – to suddenly be handed a pink slip with no employment prospects in sight?" Describing EPA’s regulations as a part of a single-minded agenda to kill coal in this country, Rogers expressed his frustration that the Administrator would request additional funding for the Administration’s War on Coal despite the fact that coal represents approximately 40% of the nation’s energy consumption. “Employers rely on the reliable, affordable energy provided by the coal industry to stay competitive in this challenging economic environment. Households in every state depend on this cheap energy source to keep their bills low and their lights on when the unexpected occurs. Distorting the market to ensure that coal cannot compete with more expensive and less reliable commodities is a losing strategy for economic recovery and energy independence,” said Rogers. Since 2009, more than 10,000 coal miners have been laid off in Eastern Kentucky alone. Rogers blamed the agency's overreaching regulations for decimating the economy of small communities in the Appalachian region, forcing businesses to lay off workers or file for bankruptcy. Rogers scolded McCarthy for requesting an additional $50 million in taxpayer dollars to fund the agency's anti-coal campaign and so-called Clean Power Plan, even though the Supreme Court has ordered a stay of the rule. "I have seen conflicting reports regarding the deadlines for state actions that were included in the final rule," stated Rogers. "My understanding is that the Justice Department, in opposing the stay, advised that the deadlines would be delayed for the duration of the stay. However, Acting Assistant Administrator McCabe recently indicated that the deadlines may remain in effect." Rogers asked McCarthy for assurance that the EPA will delay the deadlines in the rule until the Court's have issued final decisions. Click here to watch the EPA budget hearing. ###
03.16.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) highlighted the Eastern Kentucky grassroots efforts of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region - this week during federal budget hearings for fiscal year 2017. Despite raising serious concerns with the U.S. Department of Labor's regulatory agenda, including minimum wage, the fiduciary rule, and overtime regulations, Rogers praised Labor Secretary Thomas Perez for his support of SOAR initiatives and for taking time to visit Eastern Kentucky last year. "As you are aware, over the last seven years, Eastern Kentucky has been hit hard with the loss of over 10,000 coal jobs, and more recently, the temporary shuttering of the AK Steel plant in Ashland," said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "Thank you, Secretary Perez, for speaking at the SOAR Summit last year and highlighting the importance of education and job training. As you saw during your visit, SOAR is partnering with workforce development groups like the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program to help create jobs and opportunities. Important pieces of this initiative include innovation, workforce development, and job creation, and I appreciate your continued support of these programs in the budget – as well as your continued interest in SOAR." During a budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD), Rogers commended Undersecretary Lisa Mensah for her recent visit to Bell County. He also showed appreciation for Kentucky State Director Tom Fern and the Kentucky State Office for Rural Development for their continued efforts to improve the quality of life in southern and eastern Kentucky, as well as their support for SOAR at both the state and federal level. "Since the beginning of this initiative, USDA Rural Development has been a partner working alongside myself and both the current and former Governors of Kentucky to build a strong economy for Appalachia," said Rogers. "I look forward to continuing this partnership as we continue to strengthen and expand the economy in that region." While applauding the USDA-RD, Rogers said he was troubled by the Administration's proposed termination of Guaranteed Water and Waste Disposal Loans, as well as a reduction of nearly $400 million for Direct Water and Waste Disposal Loans. "The water and waste disposal loan and grant program is wildly popular and many of the communities the program serves have no other alternatives to construct, improve, or extend their water and waste systems," said Rogers. "Currently, there is an enormous, well documented backlog in rural water and waste applications; however, the budget request significantly reduces the lending and grant levels previously appropriated." Click here to watch the FY17 budget hearing for the Department of Labor. Click here to watch the FY17 budget hearing for the Department of Agriculture - Rural Development. ###
03.16.2016	As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), continues to advocate for critical federal support to help resurrect coal communities through the fiscal year 2017 budget process. Chairman Rogers worked diligently to secure increased funding for key federal programs in the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus bill that Congress passed in December. The Omnibus included an additional $50 million to support economic development initiatives through the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), plus $15 million through the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to help create jobs and new economic opportunities. Both amounts were significant increases above the President’s budget request. Additionally, Rogers developed a $90 million pilot project to repurpose abandoned mine lands in Appalachia for community and economic development. Three of the states hardest hit by President Obama’s “War on Coal” -- Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania – are participating in the pilot. "At every relevant hearing, I'm not only working with national leaders to draw their attention to the challenges we’re facing in Appalachia, but I'm specifically requesting the regulatory relief that our coal industry desperately needs to ensure coal continues to be a part of our energy portfolio. Coal is essential to job creation and keeping our utility rates affordable for families and businesses across the country," said Rogers. "In Eastern Kentucky, we launched SOAR -Shaping Our Appalachian Region, an unprecedented, holistic grassroots effort to help diversify the economy in light of the devastating loss of nearly 11,000 coal mining jobs since 2009. SOAR has garnered support from the federal, state and local levels, but a revitalization effort of this magnitude will require continued dedication and support." This year, Rogers has advocated for coal country through budget hearings with the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the U.S. Department of Interior. "Efforts such as the AML pilot program that this Committee began last year and the President’s POWER Plus proposal for economic development on abandoned mine lands represent just a small portion of what it is going to take to get Appalachia back on its feet," Rogers stated during a recent hearing with Interior Secretary, Sally Jewell. "The job creators in this region need relief from these onerous regulations in order to keep jobs in the coal fields online and to turn their good ideas for economic diversification into employment opportunities." "We need to set the right priorities here, in Washington, so that they can resurrect their economies and put their people back to work," continued Rogers. Rogers will question EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy about the agency's budget next week. Click here to watch the budget hearing, scheduled for Tuesday, March 22, 2016 at 9:00 a.m. ###
03.16.2016	During a federal budget hearing for the National Institutes of Health's (NIH) fiscal year 2017 proposal, Congressman Hal Rogers asked national healthcare leaders how we can do more to save lives from prescription drug and heroin overdoses, despite an oversupply of opioids across the nation. "We lose 100 Americans a day from overdoses of prescription drugs and heroin," said Rogers, who serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "As you know over 250 million prescriptions are written each year for opioids, many of which need not be written. These drugs have become a default solution for any pain, rather than the severe pain for which they were intended." Rogers asked NIH Director, Dr. Francis Collins, and Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), about efforts to evaluate the risks associated with the long-term use of opioids and NIH-sponsored research on abuse-deterrent medications and non-opioid alternatives to pain management. Dr. Volkow said a pain consortium is working to recommend better pain management practices, from developing more abuse-deterrent opioids to examining research for behavioral and cognitive interventions that can improve the outcomes in patients suffering from chronic pain. "Current prescription practices of opioids cannot continue the way they are doing right now - it's unacceptable," said Dr. Volkow. "Education in the healthcare system, also in the public, along with guidelines, like that of the [Centers for Disease Control] CDC, will facilitate the changing of practices of how we prescribe medications for the management of chronic pain, while at the same time, providing adequate care for those suffering from chronic pain, which can be very devastating." On Tuesday, the CDC announced new prescribing guidelines for opioids. There are 12 recommendations that essentially guide doctors to avoid using powerful opioids as the first line of defense against pain, saying the risks from such drugs far outweigh the benefits for most people. With respect to the dosage, CDC recommends to "start low and go slow.” Rogers also asked Dr. Collins about the importance of insurance coverage for prescription painkillers that are harder to abuse. "One of the problems is that doctors are not widely prescribing these abuse-deterrent medications," said Rogers. "Some states, including my home state of Kentucky, are pursuing legislation to ensure that insurance companies cover these drugs - even though they may be more expensive." Both Dr. Collins and Dr. Volkow advocated for more incentives to develop and prescribe abuse deterrent formulas for highly abused opioids. They will both serve as keynote speakers at the National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, Georgia on March 28-31, 2016. At the event, Rogers will lead a Congressional Forum with five of his colleagues, highlighting the work of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, of which he is the co-founder and co-chair. Click here to watch the full FY17 budget hearing for NIH. ###
03.03.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) recognized the tremendous hardship and sacrifices made by the dedicated men and women of the U.S. Army, during a fiscal year 2017 budget hearing with Acting Secretary Patrick Murphy and the Chief of Staff, General Mark Milley. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers asked Secretary Murphy about military readiness, combatting terrorism and budget cuts. Rogers expressed concern for China's efforts to become a maritime power in the South and East China Seas, growing aggression in Russia, and continued brutality in the Middle East at the hands of ISIS and the Assad regime. "With so much uncertainty and turmoil throughout the world, I remain concerned about our ability to respond to complex challenges in multiple regions as our force structure continues to decline," said Rogers. According to the current plan, the Army is set to reach an active duty end strength of 460,000 by the end of fiscal year 2017, and will endure a reduction of another 10,000 troops by 2018. "You are planning to cut yet another combat aviation brigade (CAB) over the next three years, leaving us with just 10 CABs in the active force. The first CAB eliminated was in my home state of Kentucky. Just last year, the Army deactivated the 159th CAB at Fort Campbell, which resulted in the loss of almost 3,000 personnel at this base," said Rogers. "Nevertheless, the soldiers at Fort Campbell have weathered this unwelcome loss, are as ready and equipped as ever, and are deploying in the fight against ISIS this spring. The Headquarters of the 101st Airborne Division deployed to Iraq just last month, and soldiers from the 2nd BCT will be deploying in May to join them. They have our support, and we wish them a safe return home." Rogers also questioned the Army's proposed 35% cut to aviation in the face of a recommendation by the National Commission on the Future of the Army to increase the aviation fleet and the amount of flying hours for active and reserve components. “The Army consistently tells us how critical aviation is to its ability to fight and participate in joint missions," said Rogers. "The President’s Budget claims to prioritize the modernization of the Army’s helicopter fleet, yet opts to cut the Army’s aviation procurement account by 35%." Click here to watch the fiscal year 2017 budget hearing for the U.S. Army. ###
03.03.2016	As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Hal Rogers submitted the following statement for the fiscal year 2017 budget hearing for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement: "Mr. Chairman, thank you for yielding. Director Pizarchik, I appreciate you taking the time to be here today. Welcome to the Interior subcommittee. "Yesterday, Secretary Jewell testified before this subcommittee and we had an extensive conversation about the impact of OSMRE’s policies on coal communities around this country. In short, the impacts are profound. "At the outset, I must acknowledge the work of you and your staff on the RECLAIM Act. As this bill begins to make its way through the Committee process, I look forward to hearing comments and suggestions from my colleagues as to how this legislation can best benefit suffering coal communities in their home States. Let me also state my appreciation for your partnership in implementing the new AML pilot program that Congress established in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus. As you know, this program will pilot the core concept of the RELCAIM Act, which is to accelerate the reclamation of abandoned mine lands with an eye toward economic development. While the RECLAIM Act will accelerate payments from the AML fund for reclamation in order to attract investment in planned economic development projects, the AML pilot will utilize general funds to explore how we might reclaim AML land and initiate such projects at the same time. It is my hope that we can get this pilot up and running in short order, so that we can bring real jobs and real hope back to these communities. "Do not get me wrong, Mr. Director, these are important efforts. But here is the unfortunate reality as my constituents see it: Our communities would not be aching for support through this pilot, or for legislation like the RECLAIM Act, if the Administration actually supported the coal industry and our coal miners. My District in Kentucky, and coal communities all across the country, are experiencing an unemployment crisis. Some counties in Eastern Kentucky have 11, 12, and 15% unemployment rates and rising. It is not uncommon to hear about layoffs in the order of 100 and 200 jobs at a time. Ten thousand coal miners have lost their jobs in the last eight years since President Obama took office, and they are struggling to find work in this economic climate. Unfortunately, Mr. Director, regulations such as those coming out of your Department are to blame. While economic development programs and innovative approaches to diversifying and growing these economies are a part of the solution, we will not be able to turn this situation around without regulatory relief. "Coal companies, farmers, and marina owners alike are struggling under the weight of costly regulations issued by this Administration. When they apply for permits, they know they will sink considerable costs without seeing a decision on their application for months or even years. When making decisions about growing their businesses, they know that hiring new employees is a risky decision - because having to shoulder even more expensive compliance costs is almost a certainty. "My most serious concerns are with your agency’s proposed Stream Protection Rule. You have spent millions of dollars rewriting the stream buffer zone rule, and have nothing to show for it but a mismanaged process that has all but broken down entirely. The States that you are required to consult with during the rulemaking process have been completely shut out. The bottom line is that this rule stands to eliminate almost 200,000 jobs in my region, and that is a price we cannot afford to pay. The Secretary confirmed that the Department intends to adhere to requirements in the FY16 Omnibus related to the rule, and you can rest assured that this Committee will be following up to ensure OSM works with its State partners. "I cannot understate the importance of this fact – we need regulatory relief if we are serious about revitalizing Appalachia. I would like to think that helping these communities is a priority we share, and I hope you can shed some light on how you intend to address these issues today. I look forward to hearing your testimony and I yield back." ###
03.02.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), who chairs the House Appropriations Committee, continues to advocate for coal communities this week during fiscal year 2017 budget hearings on Capitol Hill. Today, Rogers described the impact of the Department of Interior's job-killing regulations in the Appalachian coalfields, during a budget hearing with Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. "For every one mining job we lose in my area, we lose three to four more in other industries," said Rogers. "We have a real crisis in Appalachia, and some of the policies championed by your Department only exacerbate the very real challenges that they face every day." Specifically, the Department of Interior has spent millions over the last four years on its proposed Stream Protection Rule, a mismanaged revision of the stream buffer zone rule that was finalized in 2008. "There is no doubt that this rule will have a tremendous impact on determining what coal can and cannot be mined and will result in the bulk of it being left in the ground," said Rogers. "One independent analysis of the proposed rule indicates that it threatens up to 280,000 jobs, most of which are in Appalachia. That is the equivalent of dozens of small towns in my region – and a high price to pay for what will be imperceptible environmental gains." Earlier this year, the Department of Interior issued a moratorium on all federal coal lease sales pending a study of the federal process, halting proposed coal lease sales in nine states, including Kentucky. "You know as well as I do that this moratorium is just another excuse to keep coal off the market so it can't compete with other resources," said Rogers. "This approach is not a winning strategy for energy independence or economic growth in this country." Despite efforts to retool and encourage economic development in Appalachian coal communities, Rogers says the Administration's overreaching regulations are proving too much to overcome in some regions that are already experiencing an unemployment crisis, like Eastern Kentucky. "Efforts such as the AML pilot program that this Committee began last year and the President’s POWER Plus proposal for economic development on abandoned mine lands represent just a small portion of what it is going to take to get Appalachia back on its feet," said Rogers. "The job creators in this region need relief from these onerous regulations in order to keep jobs in the coal fields online and to turn their good ideas for economic diversification into employment opportunities." "We need to set the right priorities here, in Washington, so that they can resurrect their economies and put their people back to work," continued Rogers. Click here to watch the full FY17 budget hearing for the Interior Department. ###
03.02.2016	During a budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Congressman Hal Rogers questioned VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald about efforts to improve management, reduce wait lists for veterans seeking medical treatment and enhance prescription opioid abuse prevention efforts. Rogers applauded the VA for vamping up efforts to digitize VA medical records. To help speed up the digitization process, the VA recently announced 150 new jobs will be added at SourceHOV in Mt. Vernon, Kentucky. "This Committee appreciates the Department's prioritizing of this project, and we support your efforts to make the claims process more efficient and reduce the backlog of veterans claims," said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "Our veterans seeking access to their rightfully earned benefits are depending on us." While Rogers commended Secretary McDonald for improving the claims process, he questioned continued reports of negligence and mismanagement that first surfaced at the VA in 2014, revealing that veterans continued to wait for critical healthcare services for months at a time last year. "Last summer, one year after these facts surfaced, we received reports that the wait lists had increased by 50% in one year's time - even after Congress appropriated $15 billion to reduce the wait lists and hire more caregivers," said Rogers. "To this day, the magnitude of the wait list problem remains unclear and the VA Inspector General is just now beginning to release the findings of their investigation into the 73 hospitals across the country that forced our veterans to wait for care - care that in many cases never came. You and I both know that treating our veterans with this level of disregard is utterly unacceptable and truly deplorable. Rogers also expressed concern for improving the VA's prescribing protocols for powerful painkillers. In 2015, the VA Inspector General reported at least one veteran had lost his life, because proper prescribing protocols weren't followed at a VA hospital. "The veteran patient population must be a prime target for prescription opioid abuse prevention efforts, with so many veterans desperately seeking relief from the pain of battlefield injuries," said Rogers. "You have a committed partner in this Committee in the fight against opioid abuse and addiction among our veterans, and we stand ready to provide you with the support you need in this effort." Click here to watch the FY17 budget hearing for the VA. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned U.S. Secretary of Energy, Dr. Ernest Moniz about the future of coal. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers asked Secretary Moniz why the fiscal year 2017 budget proposal boosts renewable energy with an increase of $825 million, but reduces fossil energy investments by $272 million. "You continually state that you are committed to an “all of the above” energy policy, and that this begins with a commitment to low carbon. If that were the case, this budget request would make the necessary Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) and coal research investments that seem to be missing in an effort to implement that policy," said Rogers. "With coal generating 40% of the electricity in this country, CCS technology and investment in fossil energy research is vital to developing an energy economy that is reliable, affordable and efficient." Rogers also blamed the Administration for writing an abundance of rules intended to regulate coal out of business. "Coal is the cheapest and most abundant natural resource in this country, and businesses, schools, communities can rely on it during storms, record cold temperatures and other unexpected circumstances," stated Rogers. "Meanwhile, this Administration’s War on Coal has left 10,000 coal miners in my District laid off. They are trying desperately to find work in other industries, when they should be hard at work providing us with access to the affordable and reliable energy that coal provides." Click here to watch the FY17 budget hearing for the U.S. Dept. of Energy.
03.01.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske about the agency's request for an increase of $687 million in federal funding for the next fiscal year. Rogers applauded CBP for improved security efforts for people traveling with visas, but expressed concern for reduced border security and enforcement of immigration laws. "The President’s unilateral action on immigration demonstrates he has no intention of working with Congress or respecting our Constitutional authority," said Rogers. "Unfortunately, you and your agency are caught in the middle of this fight, and it has made passing an annual appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security incredibly difficult. It also makes it impossible to move forward on any meaningful immigration reforms while the President remains in office." Recently, there has been an unprecedented spike in unaccompanied minors crossing the U.S. southern border. In the first four months of fiscal year 2016, the U.S. Border Patrol has apprehended 20,000 unaccompanied alien children. "That’s double the number that were apprehend in the same timeframe last year," stated Rogers. "Unfortunately, this humanitarian crisis does not appear to be subsiding anytime soon and this committee will continue to work with you to provide CPB the resources that are needed to manage the situation." Many of those families and children are fleeing their countries due to a surge in drug cartel and gang violence across Central and South America. Rogers raised additional concern for the proposed reduction of 300 Border Patrol Agents at a time when drug cartels from Mexico and elsewhere are flooding urban and rural communities in America with heroin. "Others in the Administration have rightfully labeled the abuse of opioids as a national epidemic, with roughly 100 Americans losing their battle to addiction every day – and yet you have proposed to reduce our first line of defense against the entry of these dangerous, deadly drugs without the benefit of any supporting analysis that Border Patrol’s mission won’t be compromised," said Rogers. Click here to watch the CBP budget hearing for FY17. ###
02.28.2016	On Friday, during a fiscal year 2017 budget hearing with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) on Capitol Hill, Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) applauded projects managed by the Corps over the last several years in southern and eastern Kentucky, from the Wolf Creak Dam rehabilitation project to various flood protection projects across the region. However, Rogers criticized the Corps for implementing regulatory hurdles that are killing jobs and slowing economic growth in Kentucky and nationwide. In the years before President Obama took office, Eastern Kentucky employed more than 15,000 coal miners, which has now been reduced to around 5,000. "Despite this staggering unemployment and economic depression, this Administration continues to march on with its 'keep it in the ground' strategy with regard to coal. Not only do these policies completely turn these coal communities upside-down, but they weaken our national energy economy by neglecting our most plentiful natural resource," said Rogers. "Time and again, I have seen job creators in my District and around the country struggle to do business under this wrong-headed regulatory regime. They have seen their permit applications left to languish and decisions on their lease modifications needlessly delayed. Each new regulation and each delay of an important permit decision threatens much-needed jobs and leads to uncertainty for thousands of workers." Rogers expressed fear that the Corps has lost sight of its role in economic development and commitment to its recreation mission. "Unfortunately, the Corps has put up roadblock after roadblock every time my constituents want to pursue a job-creating opportunity that requires their involvement," said Rogers. "I am continually perplexed by the Corps' reluctance to support tourism and recreation on Corps lakes and rivers, when instead they should be fast-tracking every opportunity for development in this economically depressed region." Rogers asked the Corps why they have required the coal industry to provide multiple copies of 404 mining permit applications at their own expense, and why objections to permits are considered long after the filing deadline. "I really want to know answers to these questions I've raised. I'm shooting real bullets here." stated Rogers. "It's plain, the thing you've been working on with the EPA has completely shut down coal and you have been spectacularly successful. I've got 10,000 miners in my district alone, laid off. They've got kids, they've got car payments, they've got house payments, they've got food bills to pay and the like." Click here to watch the FY17 Energy and Water budget hearing. ###
02.25.2016	This week, more than 20 hearings for fiscal year 2017 budgets are being held by U.S. House appropriations subcommittees on Capitol Hill. As Chairman of the Approprations Committee, Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) expressed his concern for national priorities during those hearings, including efforts to curb heroin and prescription drug abuse across several federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). During a budget hearing with the FBI, Rogers questioned Director James Comey about the rising tide of heroin abuse. "Those abusing prescription painkillers often turn to heroin as a cheap alternative. In just the last decade, heroin in America has increased 63 percent," stated Rogers. "As I understand it, the emergence of the powerful synthetic fentanyl on the black market has dramatically increased the potency of heroin and heroin-related deaths along with it." "Almost all of it - the methamphetamine and heroin - are coming from Mexico. There's lots of challenges to the interdiction effort and I believe it is an emergency in the United States," said Comey. "Fentanyl is 40 to 50 times more powerful than heroin and they're mixing it, a lot of which comes from China, which is something we're now focused on. Even the people who have gotten used to heroin are killed in a snap. There are tens of thousands of people dying from opioid abuse and heroin." Acknowledging Secretary Burwell's sweeping proposal to combat opioid abuse, Rogers took issue with the Administration's efforts to shift an estimated $3.8 billion from discretionary to mandatory spending, including $1 billion to address the nation's opioid epidemic. "Fifteen to 20 years ago Oxycontin was just rearing its head in Appalachian. Ten years ago, heroin was just a blip on the radar, but today opioid abuse has spread to every corner of the country, cheap heroin is being laced with fentanyl so strong that unsuspecting abusers die every day from overdose," said Rogers. "With the fight against drugs changing at the speed of light, it seems irresponsible to tie our hands with inflexible mandatory funding. We need to be agile, adapting to the needs as they arise." Rogers also shared concerns for HHS budget cuts to struggling critical access hospitals in rural parts of the country. "These hospitals face a unique set of challenges. In my rural district, we have seven critical access hospitals. Many of them are already struggling to keep their doors open," said Rogers. "Some of the proposals in the President's budget will compound their financial troubles." Secretary Burwell said budget cuts would be balanced by Medicare payments to critical access facilities that receive more reimbursements than non-critical access hospitals. Click here to watch the HHS hearing and the FBI hearing. ###
02.25.2016	As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford, Jr. about the fiscal year 2017 budget proposal for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). Chairman Rogers shared his frustration with President Obama's announcement earlier this week to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and to transfer known terrorists out of U.S. custody. "As the President made the case that these prisoners will be subject to strong security measures while in the custody of other nations, a former Guantanamo prisoner was arrested in North Africa on terror charges," said Rogers. "The Director of National Intelligence tells us that 30% of prisoners released from the facility have reengaged in terrorism, yet the President continues to argue that releasing these prisoners will make us safer. Once again, I am perplexed by the Administration’s decision to continue to prioritize this misguided campaign promise, despite clear direction from this Congress - not to mention the implications for national security." Last week, President Obama failed to meet a Congressional deadline to submit a strategy to combat ISIS, and with active-duty end strength set to decline further in 2017, Rogers questioned Secretary Carter and Chairman Dunford about plans to address global security and threats of terrorism. "Two years after the Russian annexation of Crimea, Russian aggression remains a threat to sovereign states in the region and a considerable influence in the Middle East," stated Rogers. "The Islamic State maintains its hold on population centers where it terrorizes innocent lives and has created an unlivable situation for countless Syrians and Iraqis. We have seen this conflict force the migration of millions and precipitate an unprecedented humanitarian and security crisis across the Middle East and Europe. Meanwhile, Iran and North Korea continue to rattle their sabers, while China exerts military strength in the Pacific." Secretary Carter and Chairman Dunford applauded the Omnibus funding deal that passed in December with Chairman Rogers' leadership, and further explained strategies for national defense. "We have five evolving strategic challenges," stated Secretary Carter. "Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and terrorism are now driving DoD's planning and budget." "We're building the force of the future," said Chairman Dunford, regarding U.S. Armed Forces. "Our strategic nuclear deterrent remains effective, but it's aging and requires modification, therefore, we're prioritizing investment needs for a safe, secure and effective nuclear deterrent." Over the last five years, the Defense Subcommittee has passed a Defense Appropriations bill out of the House and Rogers urged both chambers of Congress to pass a FY17 federal funding bill for the sake of military troops and their families. Click here to watch the full committee hearing for FY17 DoD funding. ###
02.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, during a budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), about the department's plans to reduce federal funding and support for crime prevention and drug enforcement activities in fiscal year 2017. Rogers expressed his disappointment with the DOJ's temporary suspension of Equitable Sharing payments to state and local law enforcement agencies from the proceeds of the Asset Forfeiture program. "These funds are essential in helping local law enforcement fight drug trafficking," said Rogers. "The men and women working at these state and local agencies are your partners, often working side-by-side with federal agents. DOJ must find a way to restore these payments as soon as possible to avoid permanent harm to public safety around the country." In addition to scolding the DOJ for its tacit approval of marijuana legalization efforts nationwide and lack of enforcement of federal laws, Rogers also warned Attorney General Lynch about proposed budget cuts that could backtrack ongoing holistic efforts to curb the prescription drug abuse epidemic. The DOJ budget proposal slashes the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG) program by $39.6 million and cuts another $1 million from the national Prescription Drug Monitoring program (PDMP). "Such a drastic reduction in federal support will be devastating for state and local partners, particularly as we work collaboratively to address the terrible - and magnifying - opioid epidemic," said Rogers, regarding the Byrne-JAG program. "Thanks in large part to the PDMP grant program, 49 of 50 states have implemented a Prescription Drug Monitoring Program - and the monitoring of prescription medications by physicians and authorized law enforcement rightfully remains a key prong of the Administration's anti-drug strategy." Click here to watch the FY17 budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Justice. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
02.24.2016	During a budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Justice, Attorney General Loretta Lynch confirmed that the Bureau of Prisons plans to utilize $444 million in federal funding for fiscal year 2016 to construct a federal prison in Letcher County. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers voted for and helped author the federal Omnibus appropriations bill that passed in December, including funding for BOP. "Those funds are going to build a new prison in Kentucky - in Letcher County," said Attorney General Lynch. "That's certainly an important part of reducing our issues of overcrowding - issues of correctional officer safety, as well as inmate safety are certainly implicated by that." Attorney General Lynch's comments come ahead of Bureau of Prison's "Record of Decision" to build a facility in Eastern Kentucky, which is expected to be released by May 2016. Rogers applauds the Bureau's plan to build another facility in Kentukcy to help address overcrowding, safety of correctional officers and diminishing violence and disease among inmates. "With funding in place and the completion of environmental studies, the Bureau can move forward with the first phase of this project - design, water and sewer - once the Director signs the official record of decision this Spring," said Rogers. "This facility will provide hundreds of good paying, full-time jobs as our region struggles to rebound from the devastating loss of more than 10,000 coal mining jobs over the last eight years. It's also a testament to the perseverance and hard work of the Letcher County Planning Commission that has worked diligently to bring a federal prison to Letcher County." A 700-acre site in Roxana was recently selected by the Bureau, following the completion of an environmental impact study, as the best location for the federal prison that is expected to bring an estimated 300 full-time jobs to the region. Click here to watch the full budget hearing for the U.S. Department of Justice. ###
02.23.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined more than 200 of his Congressional colleagues to file an amicus brief in the case of State of West Virginia, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency, et al. The effort was led by U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and House Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-Ky.), garnering the support of 34 Senators and 171 House Members. The amicus brief supports the petitions filed by 27 states, which oppose the EPA's so-called "Clean Power Plan." A copy of the brief can be found here. "The overreaching Clean Power Plan is one of many EPA regulations that have taken dead aim at Kentucky's coal industry, and it must be stopped. Though it devastates small, rural communities across Appalachia and the nation, the rule will have no impact on carbon emissions across the globe," said Congressman Rogers. "The Supreme Court rightfully suspended the EPA's efforts to shut down coal-fired power plants and completely transform our nation's energy portfolio. The amicus brief is a signal of Congressional support for the court's decision, as well as a request to end the EPA's job-killing anti-coal agenda." As Senators and Representatives duly elected to serve in the Congress of the United States in which “all legislative Powers” granted by the Constitution are vested, the members state in brief that: The Final Rule goes well beyond the clear statutory directive by, among other things, requiring States to submit, for approval, state or regional energy plans to meet EPA’s predetermined CO2 mandates for their electricity sector. In reality, if Congress desired to give EPA sweeping authority to transform the nation’s electricity sector, Congress would have provided for that unprecedented power in detailed legislation. Indeed, when an agency seeks to make “decisions of vast ‘economic and political significance’” under a “long-extant statute,” it must point to a “clear” statement from Congress. Util. Air Regulatory Grp. v. EPA, 134 S. Ct. 2427, 2444 (2014) (quoting FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 120 S. Ct. 1291, 1315 (2000)). EPA can point to no statement of congressional authorization for the Final Rule’s central features, precisely because there is none. Nor has Congress authorized EPA to make the policy choices that are reflected in the Final Rule—a rule that imposes enormous costs on States and the public without achieving meaningful climate benefits. Because of the Final Rule, States will face unprecedented new regulatory burdens, electricity ratepayers will be subject to billions of dollars in compliance costs, and American workers and their families will experience the hardship of job losses due to power plant shutdowns, higher electricity prices, and overall diminishment of the nation’s global economic competitiveness. Choices of this nature are inherently Congressional decisions. See W. Minn. Mun. Power Agency v. Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm’n, 806 F.3d 588, 593 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (“Agencies are empowered to make policy only insofar as Congress expressly or impliedly delegates that power.”) (citing Util. Air Regulatory Grp., 134 S. Ct. at 2445 (2014)). Congress has not authorized EPA to make the central policy choices in the Final Rule and, in many respects, has affirmatively rejected those policies, as it certainly did with respect to cap-and-trade programs for CO2 emissions from power plants. Accordingly, the Final Rule that has been properly stayed by the Supreme Court should now be vacated by this Court. Additional Information: Thirty-nine lawsuits seeking review of the Final Rule have been consolidated in the D.C. Circuit. The Final Rule was stayed by the Supreme Court on Feb. 9. The D.C. Circuit is scheduled to hear oral arguments in the consolidated cases on June 2. An amicus brief, or “friend of the court” brief, can be filed in order to address concerns and advise the Court on a matter of law that directly affects the case at hand. ### PERMALINK
02.12.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced $6 million in federal funding for continued flood protection projects in the City of Cumberland. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) released the 2016 work plan, which included property acquisitions, bridge development and flood proofing along the Levisa and Tug Forks and the Upper Cumberland River. Rogers worked to secure the funding in the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. "Flood proofing and bridge rehabilitation has been critical to all of our communities along the Cumberland River where decades of reoccurring floods have finally been mitigated, saving lives and homes along the river banks," said Rogers. "I applaud the Corps for persevering through challenges over the years to ensure flood control projects continue to be a priority in our region." The funding will be utilized for widening the Poor Fork Channel, contract development for the Shepherd Street Bridge replacement and continued flood proofing. The Corps' Section 202 project is cost-shared with 95% federal and 5% non-federal funds. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
02.12.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced $2.5 million in federal funding for the Town of Martin Redevelopment Project. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) released the 2016 work plan, which included funds to continue acquiring property for the next phases of the project. Rogers worked to secure the funds in the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. "This unique project has been challenging and lengthy, but we're moving in the right direction to ultimately improve the safety of individuals, families and business owners who are patiently awaiting the redevelopment of their beloved hometown," said Rogers. "I commend the Corps for gaining momentum on significant construction projects that are scheduled to begin in the coming months." The Corps' Section 202 project is cost-shared with 95% federal and 5% non-federal funds. Utilizing these funds, the Corps will continue acquiring property within the Town of Martin. They will also complete the design of an access road from Ice Plant Hollow Road to the redevelopment site and finalize statutory environmental compliance requirements. Last year, Rogers announced $14.9 million for the new Floyd County Schools Renaissance Learning Center, as well as the new Martin Town Hall and Police Station. Construction is scheduled to begin in April. In 2013, Rogers joined the Corps for a ribbon-cutting celebration to commemorate the completion of the Martin Volunteer Fire Department. Numerous homes and businesses have also been removed from the floodway. The ongoing project includes flood safe redevelopment, mandatory floodplain evacuation, voluntary flood proofing and acquisition, and relocation of public facilities. The Town of Martin has suffered ten major floods in its history. ###
02.11.2016	As Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) examined funding for programs within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as oversight hearings began with the submission of the Fiscal Year 2017 budget this week. Rogers applauded USDA's commitment to the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative through the Rural Development Community Facilities loan program and the Business and Industry guarantee loan program. He also commended Secretary Tom Vilsack for his efforts to address the rampant abuse of prescription painkillers and heroin in rural communities. "I think we can all agree that this drug problem is unique and requires a collaborative, all-hands-on-deck approach. A holistic approach incorporating law enforcement, treatment and education," said Rogers, detailing the success of Operation UNITE in Eastern Kentucky. "I look forward to having another warrior on the battlefield as we continue the fight to save lives." Secretary Vilsack was recently charged by the President to lead the USDA's new "Rural America Opioid Initiative." The effort is intended to address the 76% shortage in mental illness and substance abuse services in rural areas. "White males in rural America are dying at a younger age and they are dying because of poisoning and suicide," said Sec. Vilsack. "The goal is to raise awareness of the problem, to ensure the folks who need help are going to get help, to prevent unnecessary deaths as a result of overdose, and to equip first responders with the knowledge and the medications that are successful. " Secretary Vilsack will deliver a keynote address at the 2016 National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit, hosted by Operation UNITE, in March. Despite these highlights within USDA's budget proposal, Rogers questioned some of the items included in the request. In particular, he cited concern with efforts to create new, duplicative programs during a time when the federal budget is crunched, especially since the agency has proposed to decrease funding for long-standing initiatives, like the Business and Industry Loan and Grant program, with a proven track record of success. "This program has helped create new jobs in my region by helping companies secure the financing they need to establish, expand or modernize rural businesses," stated Rogers. Click here to watch the USDA-RD budget hearing for fiscal year 2017. (NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 21:25 and his questions begin at 31:30) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
02.11.2016	In his first budget hearing for fiscal year 2017, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) issued a scathing review of the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) budget proposal, agency management and failing customer service. Rogers noted that two-thirds of taxpayers who call the IRS can't get through. "A recently released Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on the 2015 tax filing season highlights just how bad customer service has become at the IRS," said Rogers, Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. "The report found that roughly only one-third of taxpayers who called into the IRS for assistance had their calls answered. The report also showed that call wait times have more than tripled in just the last five years." Rogers tasked IRS Commissioner John Koskinen with reporting back to the Committee on April 15, 2016 to provide information on customer service improvements, including the percentage of people who call and get through, as well as the length of the wait time. Commissioner Koskinen reported 25 million tax returns have been filed thus far, with all but one million electronically. "Since Fiscal Year 2011, this Committee has pared back IRS' astronomically high budget requests on a bipartisan basis," said Rogers. "This is largely a result of this Committee's concerted effort to reduce discretionary spending government-wide; justifiable concern over the implementation of ObamaCare and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act; and multiple objectionable management decisions at the agency - for example, targeting certain groups based on their ideological beliefs and destroying documents." The IRS budget request for fiscal year 2017 is $12.3 billion, a 9.3% increase above the 2016 level. Click here to watch the IRS budget hearing for fiscal year 2017. (NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 15:55 and his questions begin at 37:11) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
02.09.2016	House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today issued the following statement on the release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request. “The President’s final budget unfortunately doesn’t look much different than other years – it is a spending wish list that doesn’t reflect our real budgetary constraints and that would saddle hard-working Americans with additional taxes and fees. “The job of the Appropriations Committee is now to scrutinize this request. We will hold extensive oversight hearings and briefings to make informed, thoughtful, line-by-line funding decisions. At the end of the day, the ‘power of the purse’ lies with the Congress – not the White House – and we will use that power to decide what to cut and what to fund. We are going to hit the ground running with this work – holding our first budget hearings tomorrow – so that we can bring our Appropriations bills to the floor in regular order and in record time. “My Committee intends to produce bills that abide by the budget caps set into place by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 – a total of $1.070 trillion in discretionary spending. But most importantly, they will be fiscally responsible, reflecting the needs of our federal government and the American people while protecting our financial future." ###
02.09.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to introduce the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act (H.R. 4499), also known as the PROP Act. This bill makes a technical modification to the Affordable Care Act to eliminate a potential penalty on physicians who refuse to overprescribe powerful painkillers. “In order to beat back on the scourge of prescription drug abuse, we have to employ a multi-pronged, holistic approach – and the medical community has certainly got to be a part of the solution,” said U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-5), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “I believe that the PROP Act will help change both attitudes and prescribing practices among physicians. By sending a signal that opiates are not necessarily our first line of defense against pain, the bill will help doctors make informed medical decisions while ensuring that patients receive the best quality of care. I applaud Congressman Mooney for his leadership on this issue, and look forward to working with him to move the legislation forward.” “Prescription drug abuse is wreaking havoc on families and communities in West Virginia and across our country. We have to fight back against this drug epidemic before it tears more lives apart,” said U.S. Rep. Alex X. Mooney (WV-2), original sponsor of the bill. “The PROP Act changes current law to help end the unnecessary overuse of prescription painkillers. In doing so, this bill empowers doctors, not the federal government, to choose what is right for patients.” “Around the country, families are losing loved ones to the devastating opioid epidemic that is sweeping across the nation. Far too many of those individuals struggling with opioid and heroin addiction first started after developing a dependence on prescription drugs. That’s why I’m a proud cosponsor of the PROP Act, which will help encourage doctors to use best-practices when prescribing medication, in order to prevent patients from starting on the dangerous path towards addiction. We must put an end to this epidemic once and for all; I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together and pass this important legislation without delay,” said Rep. Annie Kuster (NH-02). Kuster is the co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to End the Heroin Epidemic, and she is working with stakeholders across the state of New Hampshire to tackle the epidemic in her home state. "Opioid abuse is devastating young people and their families on a daily basis across our country. Over prescribing is one factor driving this epidemic and it is critical that prevailing pain management protocols acknowledge and address the carnage that is a byproduct of the current approach, ” said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8). “Congressman Mooney’s bill will do that. The PROP Act is a common sense bill that will allow doctors to continue their important work serving their patients without leading to unnecessary over prescription of opioids.” “We know that prescription pain killers can be a gateway for heroin, yet we have a healthcare system that incentivizes the over prescription of these very same opioids. In what world does this make sense? Each and every day I hear yet another devastating story about a life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women get the access to the care that is desperately needed, and this legislation is a positive step forward,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13). Overuse of narcotic pain medicine is one of the leading causes of opioid addiction. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), prescription and over the counter drugs are the most commonly abused substances in the US, other than marijuana. In fact, a 2014 survey of 420 members of the American Medical Association found that 85% of those surveyed believe that prescription drugs are overused in clinical practice. Additionally, the number of prescriptions for opioids soared from 76 million in 1991 to nearly 207 million in 2013. The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, would remove a major source of pressure on doctors to prescribe narcotic pain medication. For more information on the PROP Act, follow this link. Bipartisan Original Cosponsors: Annie Kuster (D-NH), Hal Rogers (R-KY), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Frank Guinta (R-NH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). ###
02.08.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and his guest, Tom Wheeler, Chairman of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), visited Jackson and Perry Counties to discuss broadband-based opportunities in Eastern Kentucky. Rogers invited Chairman Wheeler to meet with local leaders about innovative projects that are already underway to utilize the anticipated connection to high-speed, high-capacity fiber optic cable in the region. "Chairman Wheeler shared a wealth of insight and expertise on a broad range of telecom issues," said Congressman Rogers. "His visit comes during a critical time in Eastern Kentucky, as our local communities pave the way for broadband access that can transform the way we do business, administer healthcare and educate our young people." In Jackson County, a private forum was hosted by the People's Rural Telephone Cooperative (PRTC) to highlight the first gigabit communities in the region with 100% connectivity or access to broadband in Jackson and Owsley Counties. Local leaders demonstrated the impact it is already having on education and retraining coal miners for new jobs in the high-tech industry. "Broadband is the greatest asset of the 21st century," said Chairman Wheeler. "We are teaching kids how to harness all of the benefits of broadband-enabled technologies; how to have the skills to use this network to not only obtain a job some day, but to grow jobs here." During the meeting, Congressman Rogers presented a first-time "Innovative Leadership Award" to Keith Gabbard, CEO of PRTC for his boldness and perseverance to provide broadband access to people living in two of the most rural counties in the country. The National Telephone Cooperative Association - Rural Broadband Association recently named PRTC a Smart Rural Community and Gig-Capable Provider. "This fiber is not just our future -- it's here now. We're already seeing the benefits of having this fiber infrastructure in our rural counties," said Gabbard. "People can work from home now thanks to this network. Some people are even moving here to be able to work from home." In Perry County, a SOAR Business and Broadband Series was hosted by the Hazard Community and Technical College. Hilda Legg, former Administrator of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utility Services, moderated a round table discussion about business and broadband, including local business owners, educators, healthcare providers and government leaders. Jamie Adams, a former coal miner served as a panelist with his new employer, Lynn Parrish, CEO of Bit Source in Pikeville. "If it wasn't for the broadband we have now, I would have had to move out of here to find work," said Adams, who is now a Developer at Bit Source. "I went back to school to get a degree in information technology, because I didn't want to leave this area." "Some of our former coal miners are now learning how to mine code," said Congressman Rogers. "We will continue to fight for coal jobs, but we need to let the people of this region know that there is hope as we work to create new opportunities. The leaders we've heard from today are building a foundation of a whole new way of life for our region." Before the final event concluded, Chairman Wheeler applauded local leaders for serving as a model of success in rural America. "You are making a difference," stated Chairman Wheeler. "You are the folks who are making the promise of a new network happen." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. Left Photo: Congressman Rogers, Keith Gabbard, Chairman Tom Wheeler Right Photo: Chairman Wheeler addresses the SOAR Roundtable ####
02.05.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers announced a team of four students from Prestonsburg High School as the winners of the first Congressional App Challenge to be held in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. The competition is open for high school students across the country. The winning app entitled the "Kentucky College and Career Readiness Pathway" will be featured on a display in the Capitol building for one year. Congressman Rogers presented teammates Blake Ratliff, Jacob Pitts, Jonathan Dotson, and Michael Shepherd with first place certificates during the SOAR Executive Board Meeting in Pineville. "I'm so proud that our very first winners had the foresight to design a mobile App that falls in line with the mission of SOAR, to better prepare students for life after graduation," said Congressman Rogers. "I applaud our educators for implementing STEM-based classwork and challenging students with the type of high-tech design that is transforming the way we live." "When students go their junior or senior year they rush themselves to become college and career ready. Our app helps students begin to form a stronger mindset during their freshman and sophomore year," the students stated in the project description. "It helps students by getting them thinking more effectively about milestones to college and career readiness such as; the ACT and ASVAB exams. Our app keeps students aware of Industry certification exams, or the KYOTE, WorkKeys and KOSSA. With College and Career Readiness at the forefront in our education system this has the potential to help students across the U.S." The Congressional App Challenge was created because Congress recognized that STEM skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations and according to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. “We’re very proud of our kids receiving this recognition for their app concept," said Dr. Henry Webb, Superintendent of the Floyd County School Board. "We know that coding and technology unlock numerous opportunities for our kids to be future ready and we’re excited to see our students and our team seeking avenues that allows students to express their creativity in this realm.” A team of judges from the SOAR STEM initiative certified the winning mobile application. "The winners of Congressman Rogers' App Challenge reflect some of the skill sets necessary to transform the Eastern Kentucky that we are striving to create through our SOAR-STEM initiative," said Anthony "Tony" Campbell, CEO of East Kentucky Power Cooperative. "We celebrate their accomplishments today and look forward to seeing these students help develop a new economy of opportunity in SOAR." "We are proud of our students in the Big Sandy region," said David Estepp, President of Big Sandy RECC. "We are excited to witness their development of career skills that will unlock a bright future of unlimited potential in our region." To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the United States invests in our youth now, and helps them acquire these necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. The Internet Education Foundation serves as the operational “sponsor” of the CAC. For more information about the Congressional App Challenge, visit congressionalappchallenge.us ###
02.05.2016	In the first meeting of 2016 at the Pine Mountain State Resort Park in Pineville, the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Executive Committee welcomed Governor Matt Bevin as the new co-chair of the organization. Gov. Bevin will serve alongside co-founder and co-chair U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers. “I am honored to be back in Southeastern Kentucky with this inspiring group of leaders. SOAR’s mission, vision and goals are critical as Eastern Kentucky fights to protect coal jobs and attract new opportunities to the region,” stated Gov. Bevin. “I’m proud to share with the SOAR Board and attendees that my budget fully supports the SOAR initiative and, more broadly, the Eastern Kentucky region.” At the meeting, Governor Bevin shared that in both years of the biennium his budget includes $2 million for the Kentucky Appalachian Regional Development Fund, $2 million for the Coal County Scholarship Completion program, fully supports the state’s contribution to Operation UNITE and continues to invest in the Mountain Parkway expansion. "We welcome Gov. Bevin's vision and expertise to the SOAR initiative. It's a new year and there's a lot of work ahead of us in Eastern Kentucky. We've backtracked to the 1930s in coal production levels and exceeded 10,000 lost coal mining jobs since 2009," said Congressman Rogers. "Now, more than ever before, we need all of our federal, state and local partners working hand-in-hand to coordinate resources and invest in innovative opportunities that will create jobs and improve the quality of life for future generations." The SOAR Executive Committee voted to support and develop a SOAR Social Network called "Our Appalachia." The online community creates an opportunity for users to gain new jobs skills, opens access to essential information, and designs a platform to harness the power of collaboration. The network will provide a forum for innovators and entrepreneurs to work together on ideas to shape the future of Eastern Kentucky. "We hope to harness the sheer talent and brain power in Eastern Kentucky, by creating an online community that will help people collaborate from all sectors of our economy," said Jared Arnett, Executive Director of SOAR. "The coming year stands to be exciting for high-tech opportunities and ingenuity across the mountains as we innovate and redesign the way we do business and serve the people of this region." Board members also voted to support an Appalachian Health Hack-a-thon, proposed by the SOAR Community Health and Wellness Advisory Council Public Health Action Team, in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). The hack-a-thon is designed to engage community leaders, students and professionals to brainstorm opportunities for business incubation and development that will improve the high rates of health disparities in the region. The 2016 SOAR Strategy Summit is scheduled for June 6, 2016 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. More than 1,500 people attended both of the previous summits. Stay up-to-date with SOAR activities online at http://soar-ky.org and on Facebook and Twitter. Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) is a homegrown movement in Eastern Kentucky that is building on the strengths of the region and shoring up its weaknesses. Through the wisdom, resources and energy of our people, together we will make historic change for the better – in health and wellness, job creation, workforce training, education and other quality-of-life factors.
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of the significant contributions he has made to the field of substance abuse prevention and long-standing support of community-based drug prevention, Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA) awarded Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), the 2016 National Leadership Award. “From the time that his state of Kentucky was one of the hardest hit by the opioid epidemic, to today, Congressman Rogers has had a Monumental Impact on our field,” said Gen. Arthur T. Dean, CADCA Chairman & CEO. “He truly understands the value of community-based efforts, but also has led the way to bring national leaders together to discuss solutions.” CADCA’s National Leadership Award recognizes leaders who have been longtime supporters of the community coalition movement and who use their voice and influence to educate the community about the importance of substance abuse prevention. He accepted his award during CADCA’s 26TH annual National Leadership Forum, taking place Feb. 1-4 at the Gaylord National Hotel and Convention Center in National Harbor, Md. CADCA’s National Leadership Forum is the nation's largest training for substance abuse prevention and treatment professionals and researchers, attracting more than 2,500 community and state leaders from across the country. “Over the years, we’ve gained invaluable insight regarding the disease of addiction, and what it takes to truly save lives and stop the cycle of abuse. However, there is nothing more powerful than the holistic approach — bringing together professionals and community members from law enforcement, to treatment, and education to raise awareness and effect the change so desperately needed to transform the way we think about and address substance abuse,” said Congressman Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “I am honored to accept CADCA’s National Leadership Award and I applaud our community coalitions across the country that continue the grassroots efforts to prevent abuse and to reach out to those who are determined to overcome addiction." Serving Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981, Hal Rogers is currently in his 18th term representing the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, and is the longest serving Kentucky Republican ever elected to federal office. Focused on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drug use and preserving the natural treasures of Appalachia, Rogers has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the interests of the region where he was raised. Nationally, as Chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, he has helped to fund prevention work. He also started a coalition and advocates for the entire continuum of care, from starting prescription drug monitoring programs, to funding prevention programs, to supporting drug courts. For more information about CADCA’s National Leadership Forum, visit http://forum.cadca.org. About CADCA CADCA (Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America), is the global membership organization representing over 5,000 coalitions and their affiliates working to make the worlds’ communities safe, healthy and drug-free. CADCA's mission is to strengthen the capacity of community coalitions by providing technical assistance and training, public policy and advocacy, media strategies and marketing programs, conferences, and special events. For more information about CADCA, visit www.cadca.org. ###
02.03.2016	A new bipartisan bill aims to accelerate $1 billion in available funding in the Abandoned Mine Reclamation (AML) Fund to revitalize coal communities hardest hit by the downturn of the coal industry. The RECLAIM Act: Revitalizing the Economy of Coal Communities by Leveraging Local Activities and Investing More, was filed today by Congressmen Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), Matt Cartwright (D-Pa.), Evan Jenkins (R-WV.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), and Morgan Griffith (R-Va.). Coal communities throughout the United States have been struggling to cope with significant job losses after a decrease in nation-wide coal production in recent years, and the RECLAIM Act aims to support economic and community development projects in these areas. Specifically, the legislation releases $1 billion from the existing balance in the AML Fund to assist communities that have traditionally relied on the coal industry for employment or have recently experienced significant coal job losses. Under the plan, $200 million will be distributed to participating states annually for five years, and the legislation empowers States and Indian tribes to work with local communities to identify and fund economic development projects on AML sites. "In Kentucky alone, we've lost more than 11,000 coal mining jobs since 2009. Instead of allowing those funds to go unused, now is the time to help our coal producing states reinvest in the coalfields with projects that can create new jobs and reinvigorate our economy," said Rep. Rogers. "Many coal communities in Appalachia simply do not have the resources to reclaim the abandoned mine sites within their borders. This bill allows these communities to be proactive in restoring these sites and utilize them to put our people back to work." Passage of this legislation will compliment other congressional efforts that have aimed to support economic development in coal communities, such as increased and targeted funding for the Economic Development Administration and the Appalachian Regional Commission. The RECLAIM Act mirrors a section of the White House’s POWER+ proposal that requires a statutory change to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA). “Appalachian states continue to face the combined calamity of a collapsing coal industry and the environmental legacy of over a century of mining. For the families that depended on mining jobs, benefits, and pensions that have disappeared as coal companies have closed their operations, we must act to provide new opportunities,” said Rep. Cartwright. “Additionally, we must address the environmental legacy left by abandoned mines. Across northeastern Pennsylvania, there are thousands of miles of streams impacted by mine drainage, many of which are totally devoid of aquatic life. It’s time to actually spend the money we have been collecting for decades in the trust fund. We must clean up our region and help rejuvenate small communities across Appalachia.” The majority of the funding will be directly distributed by the Secretary of the Interior to states with unmet reclamation needs. Meanwhile, $5 million each year will be provided through grants for coal-producing states that no longer have abandoned mine lands. “Regrettably, recent years in the coalfields of Southwest Virginia and throughout Appalachia have been difficult,” said Rep. Griffith. “After all, life above ground is impacted when work stops underground as the result of a regulatory onslaught on coal regions, the low cost of competitive fuel, and a sluggish world economy. The RECLAIM Act is an imperative effort to help reinvigorate our hard-hit communities through economic and community development. I will continue fighting along with Congressman Rogers and others to advance economic development strategies such as this which would help keep and grow jobs in Appalachia.” After two years, each state will have the opportunity to apply for bonus payments for any remaining AML funds that have not been utilized. “As Lieutenant Governor and gubernatorial candidate, I spent nine years touring Virginia’s coal counties. I witnessed the harsh effects of an economic downturn as well as the degradation of the land,” said Rep. Beyer. “By reinvesting this money in these communities, we will provide access to much needed jobs and help to restore unused and abandoned mines.” The RECLAIM Act also comes on the heels of a similar AML Pilot Project included in the 2016 Omnibus bill. The $90 million pilot – which will be implemented in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia – will provide coal communities with grants to reclaim abandoned mine lands with economic development purposes in mind, create new job opportunities and stimulate the local economy. “Thousands of West Virginia coal miners have lost their jobs in the past five years, and our communities have been decimated by the struggling coal market. Nowhere is this problem more critical than Appalachia, especially in my district in Southern West Virginia," said Rep. Jenkins. "Our small towns and families need the resources to rebuild, attract new employers, create jobs, and give hope to the people who call Appalachia home. I commend Chairman Rogers and my fellow cosponsors for their passion for this issue and their belief that we must get our economy moving again.” Click here for to download a copy of the bill. Click here for a complete summary of the bill. ###
01.13.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing S.J. Res. 22, a joint resolution that provides Congressional disapproval of a rule redefining "waters of the United States," also known as WOTUS. The overreaching rule was published in June 2015 by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Clean Water Act (CWA), expanding their regulatory power over private waterways. The rule overrides state authorities and would require that any dirt-moving activity -- from construction of roadways, to farming, to coal mining -- require additional oversight and approval by federal bureaucrats. The resolution passed by the House would not only block the WOTUS rule, but also prohibit any new rules with similar intent. "These agencies want to run roughshod over our hard working Americans on their own private land. Our farmers, contractors, and private land owners shouldn't have to file a mountain of paperwork to dig a ditch on their own property due to occasional rain water," said Rogers. "The economy in Kentucky's Appalachian region has been drained by the impact of this Administration's overburdensome regulations and this resolution aims to prevent more chaos." Already, objections to the WOTUS rule have flooded in from at least 32 states and local officials from cities and communities across te country. The Supreme Court has twice affirmed the federal-state regulatory partnership, ruling that there are limits to federal jurisdiction under the CWA, and furthermore that the Agencies had breached these limits. S.J. Res. 22 was passed in the Senate on November 4, 2015 and now heads to the President's desk. Last year, both chambers of Congress also passed legislation aimed at reversing the WOTUS rule. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1732) and the U.S. Senate passed the Federal Water Quality Protect Act (S 1140). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
01.12.2016	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the Supporting Transparent Regulatory and Environmental Actions in Mining (STREAM) Act, H.R. 1644. The bill would block implementation of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement's (OSMRE) new revised, job-killing Stream Buffer Zone Rule. It would also foster an open and transparent rule-making process by requiring OSMRE to publicly release all scientific data used in the drafting of any new rule. The STREAM Act comes on the heels of a new report released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration revealing coal production in the United States has dropped to its lowest level in 30 years. "The Obama Administration continues to regulate the coal industry out of business with record job losses and lost coal production. This revision of the Stream Buffer Zone Rule threatens as many as 270,000 more coal-related jobs across the country, with the majority of the impact hitting our distressed Appalachian region once again," said Rogers. "In an effort to save jobs and block the disastrous new rule, the STREAM Act will rein in the OSMRE and calculate the impact of its actions on the coal industry." The STREAM Act now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. In addition to supporting this legislation, Congressman Rogers also worked to include language in the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill to fight back against this anti-coal rule. As a result of the OSMRE's failed attempt to work with state partners last year, more than half of the states who agreed to work as participating agencies have withdrawn from the rule-making process. Therefore, the Omnibus directs OSMRE to meet with each state upon request, and produce all technical reports, data, analyses, comments received, and drafts related to the environmental reviews, draft and final environmental impact statements. The FY16 Omnibus Appropriations bill was signed into law on December 18, 2015. Last year, Congressman Rogers also submitted a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell expressing concerns about OSMRE's mismanagement within the agency and a lack of transparency with coal producing states during the stream buffer zone rule-making process. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
01.06.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted with his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762), which will dismantle the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, and reduce the federal deficit by a half trillion dollars over the next ten years. The legislation defunds Planned Parenthood and redirects those funds to community health centers. It also provides state grants in response to the national substance abuse epidemic and mental health needs. "We have learned that the so-called Affordable Care Act has offered nothing more than skyrocketing premiums and deductibles, as well as a loss of income for employees being reduced to part-time status as companies dodge unaffordable insurance mandates," said Rogers. "This legislation redirects our future, recouping $500 billion on our deficit and restoring economic confidence for job creators. It also provides moral clarity, ensuring taxpayers are not blindly paying for abortions, rather, sending those dollars to healthcare facilities that uphold the sanctity of life." Since the legislation has already passed in the Senate, this is the first broad repeal of Obamacare that will be sent to the president's desk. ###
12.18.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), who also serves as Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, applauds House passage of the full-year Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016, the federal spending package known as the Omnibus. It passed with a vote of 316 to 113. The bill provides $1.149 trillion for critical government programs and services, the same level agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, which was enacted last month. "The Omnibus bill provides funding boosts for Kentucky programs to spur economic development, combat drug abuse, support the mission of SOAR, protect the sanctity of life, and keep Kentuckians safe," said Chairman Rogers. "It also reins in the Obama Administration's job-killing regulations and supports an all-of-the-above, pro-coal energy strategy to help put our coal miners back to work. Finally, the bill provides much-needed funding for our veterans programs and ensures our active military men and women have everything needed to lead the way on national defense and responses to terrorism threats." The bill now heads to the Senate for consideration and the President is expected to sign it into law over the weekend. Highlights are listed below: Economic and Rural Development Kentucky will specifically benefit from the following economic and rural development projects, including funding for programs proposed in the President's POWER Plus Plan to help revitalize our coal communities (national funding levels are listed): Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) – provides historic funding levels, $146 million, for ARC to promote economic growth in distressed counties in the region, including $10 million to increase access to broadband in Appalachian communities. Economic Development Administration – $222 million is available for Economic Development Assistance Programs, including $15 million to enhance regional business development in areas negatively impacted by the downturn in the coal industry. Reclamation of Abandoned Mine Lands – provides $241 million for the reclamation of abandoned mine lands in coal communities nationwide. This funding includes a new pilot program aimed at stimulating economic development specifically in Appalachia, where communities are struggling due to the recent downturn in the coal industry. Coal communities with abandoned mine lands will have access to grants that will enable them to reclaim these lands, create new job opportunities and stimulate the local economy. This program is funded at $90 million and will be piloted in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Job Training – supports the Employment and Training Administration at $10.6 billion. This program has supported the ongoing efforts of Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) through grants for job training initiatives to help support families impacted by layoffs in the coal industry. National Parks – provides $2.9 billion for the National Park Service, $94 million of which will be used to reduce maintenance backlogs and for the celebration of the National Park Centennial. These funds will support ongoing activities at Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, Cumberland Gap National Historic Park and Mammoth Cave National Park in Kentucky. USDA Rural Development – includes $2.8 billion to assist rural communities in creating affordable housing options and critical infrastructure investments, including utility and power systems. Head Start – promotes school readiness, an important part of preparing children for a successful future in the region, with $9.168 billion for Head Start programs. Community Service Block Grants, Rural Community Facilities, and Community Economic Development Grants – provides $751 million that will allow Community Action Agencies to continue their efforts to support low-income individuals increase self-sufficiency. Natural Resources Conservation Service Emergency Watershed Protection Program – provides $157 million to help communities recover from emergencies created by natural disasters. Kentucky communities utilize these funds to respond to imminent hazards to life and property created by floods, fires, and windstorms. Support for rural housing programs – $950 million is included for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program to help state and local governments provide affordable housing options to low-income people. An additional $900 million is included for USDA Section 502 Direct Loans and $27.5 million for Self-Help Housing programs. Community Development Financial Institutions – provides $233.5 million to promote economic revitalization in low-income communities. Kentucky-based organizations like Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation and Community Ventures use these funds to help individuals buy homes, start and grow small businesses, as well as fund projects that improve our local communities. HubZone – includes $3 million to help small businesses in rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities. Payment in Lieu of Taxes – fully funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program for Fiscal Year 2016 at $452 million. The PILT program allows local communities to compensate for losses in their tax base due to the presence of Federal lands within their boundaries. Funding from this program will benefit almost every county in the 5th Congressional District. Clean Water and Drinking Water – provides $2.3 billion to the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds, which support local drinking water and sewer construction projects. The bill also provides funding to improve water quality and ensure the safety of drinking water in rural communities through technical assistance grants. Reins in the Obama Administration’s Regulatory Overreach to Advance an All of the Above, Pro-Coal Energy Policy Since 2009, Eastern Kentucky has lost more than 9,000 coal mining jobs, plus countless more coal-reliant jobs in the region. In an effort to put coal miners back to work and reduce overburdensome and ineffective regulations, the following measures were included in the federal funding bill: Reining in the EPA – Cuts EPA funding to pre-fiscal year 2010 levels Reduces the EPA staff to its lowest levels since 1989 Rejects the President’s proposal to spend $138 million on new or expanded EPA regulatory programs Prohibits the EPA from issuing regulations on lead content in ammunition or fishing tackle Enhances congressional oversight of EPA’s review of mining permits, which often languish when left in the agency’s hands Definition of “Fill Material” and Clean Water Act Permits – prohibits the US Army Corps of Engineers from modifying the definition of “fill material.” Such modifications could harm critical US industries, including the coal industry in Appalachia. The bill also protects farmers by restricting the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. Stream Protection Rule – requires the Department of the Interior to engage with the States in developing the Stream Protection Rule, which will have a direct impact on the mining industry. The Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE) has mismanaged this rulemaking from the beginning, wasting taxpayer dollars and withholding information from State partners. This provision will require OSMRE to produce all data and documents relevant to the rulemaking and engage in a transparent process with the States. Keeping foreign coal markets open – the bill prohibits a component of President Obama’s damaging Climate Change Policy that would stop the United States from investing in coal-fired power plants in developing countries. Mine Safety – provides oversight of the Mine Safety and Health Administration in order to ensure that agency resources are being utilized efficiently and effectively throughout the region to protect our miners hard at work in the coal fields. Fossil Energy Research – advances an “all of the above” energy strategy by making substantial investments in fossil energy research. Department of Energy (DOE) Fossil Energy Research programs are funded at $632 million, which is $61 million above fiscal year 2015 funding levels. The DOE Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) and Power Systems Program is funded at $430 million, with $53 million set aside for the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL), which focuses on coal, natural gas and oil technologies. Combats Drug Abuse Great strides have been made in combatting drug abuse in Southern and Eastern Kentucky and across the Commonwealth, however, still too many lives are lost each year due to accidental drug overdoses. In fact, one person dies every 15 minutes from a drug overdose in America. The following measures are included in the bill to help save lives and prevent generational drug abuse trends. Drug Enforcement – the bill provides $250 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program to assist federal, state, and local authorities clean up trafficking hot-spots, which will enable the Appalachian HIDTA to continue its work in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The legislation also includes $2.5 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), a $52 million increase over 2015. $372 million is specifically allocated to combat the diversion of prescription drugs. In addition, $192.9 million is included for the National Guard’s Counterdrug program, which supports ongoing marijuana eradication efforts in the Daniel Boone National Forrest, and $11 million is provided to support state and local law enforcement efforts to clean up methamphetamine labs. Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMP) – the legislation provides $13 million to implement and enhance PDMPs, requiring the Department of Justice to increase interstate connectivity amount PDMPs and to explore opportunities to increase utilization by authorized users. Prevent and Treatment – the legislation provides $1.77 billion for states to plan, implement, and evaluate their efforts to prevent and treat substance abuse, and includes $1.25 million to help states implement model drug legislation. In addition, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is provided with $70 million to continue its Opioid Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention program. Kentucky has already been awarded $940,000 per year for four years under this program. The bill allocates $95 million to the Drug Free Communities Program, which provides funding to community-based groups seeking to prevent youth substance abuse. Finally, the legislation also encourages HHS to facilitate training of healthcare professionals and paramedics and to increase access to emergency devices, like Naloxone. Drug Courts – provides historic funding levels for drug courts, including $104 million to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help non-violent offenders struggling with addiction. An additional $6 million is included for Veterans Treatment Courts to help our men and women in uniform who are struggling with addiction, and $2 million will be available to train drug court judges around the country. National Defense Priorities and Taking Care of our Veterans The Veterans Administration has greatly reduced the backlog of veterans benefit claims and this bill will help continue that work, while expanding upon other services. It also ensures that our active U.S. Forces are prepared to combat the threat of ISIS and other terrorist organizations, both overseas and on U.S. soil. Responding to Worldwide Threats – provides necessary funding to combat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS), bolster our intelligence capabilities abroad, and support our allies in Europe who are being threatened by Russian aggression. Readiness and Training – addresses current shortfalls in military readiness, training, and depot maintenance in order to ensure that our servicemen and women are fully prepared to respond to threats around the world. Health Care & Research – provides $32.3 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide healthcare for our active and retired service members and their families. The bill funds crucial research on traumatic brain injury, cancer, and suicide prevention programs. The measure also provides $50 billion to the VA for medical services for our nation’s veterans, including funding for Hepatitis C treatment, mental health care, and caregivers of injured veterans. Veteran Homelessness – provides $6.7 billion for medical care, support services, housing and job training and placement programs for our homeless veterans. Rural Health – provides $270 million in rural health initiatives in order to provide care to veterans who do not have immediate access to a veterans medical center or community-based outpatient clinic. Disability Compensation Backlog – includes $2.7 billion for the VA to continue reducing the disability compensation claims backlog. Click here to watch the Chairman's floor speech in support of the bill. Click here for the full text of the Chairman's floor speech. For the full text of the bill and accompanying reports, please visit: www.rules.house.gov. ###
12.15.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) pushed for the President to deliver a comprehensive strategy to combat terrorist use of social media to recruit extremists to carry out attacks on Americans. Rogers joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015 (H.R. 3654) in response to the hijacking of this emerging global technology. "Unfortunately, we've witnessed the grave results of social media being used as an international recruiting tool for terrorism," said Rogers. "We know that terrorists are blatantly using sources like Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to radicalize individuals around the world in order to carry out attacks in the United States and abroad, and it's time that we disrupt their prime communication tools." The need for this bill was highlighted by the tragedy in San Bernardino, California earlier this month where 14 people were killed and 21 people were injured by a radical Islamist married couple who used social media to pledge support of ISIS. Although the Obama Administration committed to developing a comprehensive plan four years ago to counter terrorists' use of social media, no strategy has yet been released. The bill requires the President to update Congress on social media usage by terrorists, along with a summary of efforts made thus far to disrupt it, including: · An evaluation of the role social media plays in radicalization in the U.S.; · Analysis of how terrorists and terrorist organizations use social media; and · Recommedations to improve the federal government's efforts to disrupt and counter the use of social media by terrorists. Earlier this month, Rogers also voted for the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015 (H.R. 158) and the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038) to help reduce threats of terrorism in America. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
12.11.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds passage of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act (H.R. 644) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill authorizes U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which has been operating without authorization. It also strengthens the enforcement of trade laws, gives Treasury stronger tools to responsibly fight currency manipulation, and makes it clear that Congress won't consider any trade deals that obligate the United States with respect to greenhouse gas emissions or require changes to U.S. immigration law. "Nearly 530,000 jobs in Kentucky are dependent upon trade, so when our customs agreements are enforced, we become more competitive in the global marketplace," said Rogers. Additionally, this bill increases congressional oversight of trade negotiations and will strengthen our ability to fight human trafficking by enhancing incentives for our partners to address this form of modern-day slavery. This legislation also includes the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (H.R. 235), which permanently blocks states and local governments from taxing Internet access or placing multiple and discriminatory taxes on e-commerce activities. "As a cosponsor of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act, I'm please that it was included in this legislation," Rogers stated. "Keeping Internet access free from unnecessary taxes is a key component of promoting the digital economy, particularly as we work to expand broadband access through the KentuckyWired project." Click here for a full summary of H.R. 644. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
12.08.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015 (H.R. 158) to close critical security gaps and ensure those traveling to the United States without a visa are not a threat to Americans. The bill would also deny visa waivers for those who have traveled to terrorist hotspots, like Iraq and Syria, since 2011. "The American people deserve to feel safe and they expect a thorough screening for every person who travels to our country. This bill will strengthen security protocols that will greatly reduce the threat of a terrorist entering the United States using the Visa Waiver Program," said Rogers. "Every person who enters the U.S. will be required to have a tamper resistant 'e-passport' to provide us with critical intelligence about their background and purpose for visiting the U.S." Approximately 5,000 Europeans have reportedly traveled to Syria and Iraq to join ISIS, many of whom are from countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program. This bill will help screen for potential terrorists trying to enter the U.S. from our allied nations. It also requires all 38 Visa Waiver Program countries to provide identification and counterterrorism information for every person who travels to the U.S. without a visa. If a country fails to comply, the Secretary of Homeland Security can suspend the country's Visa Waiver Program. The bill passed in the U.S. House and now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
12.03.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY05) voted for the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act (H.R. 8), to modernize the Nation's outdated energy policies. "We need an all of the above energy policy that will put our people back to work, keep our energy rates low and strengthen our energy security," said Rogers. "The energy policies of this Administration have failed the American people and no one has felt the damaging impacts more than in Kentucky's Appalachian region. We've lost more than 9,000 coal mining jobs since 2009, devastating our small rural communities. It's time to retool and redouble our efforts as the top global energy producer." The four main components of the energy bill include: modernizing energy infrastructure, protecting the electricity system, strengthening energy security and diplomacy, and improving energy efficiency and government accountability. The legislation passed in the U.S. House of Representatives and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Click here to review the North American Security and Infrastructure Act Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
12.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for taking final action to pass the Nation's first long-term transportation bill in a decade. Today, the House approved a conference report for the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act (H.R. 22), a five-year reform bill aimed at improving roads, bridges, transit systems and rail transportation by giving states and local governments more flexibility to make important investments in our transportation infrastructure. "The FAST Act will put us on the fast-track to better roads and transportation across the country, paving the way for safer commutes and better jobs," said Rogers. "This bill cuts through the red-tape in Washington and allows each state to get to work faster on the most critical projects at home." The Fast Act is fully funded and ensures the Highway Trust Fund can meet all obligations over the next five years. Click here for a full summary Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
12.02.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds bipartisan efforts in Congress to reform education across America and revise the highly controversial Common Core principles that have emerged from the No Child Left Behind Act. On Wednesday evening, the House took final action to pass the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177) in an effort to give each state more flexibility and discretion in accountability, goal setting and intervention for low-performing students. "Students, parents, teachers and administrators need flexibility to forge a new path for success in our schools," said Rogers. "Educators in Kentucky know far more about what our students need, than bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. This plan essentially kicks the federal government out of local classrooms and allows Kentucky, like all other states under this plan, to opt out of unsuccessful programs, implement improvements catered to state and local needs, and enhance funding opportunities. We finally have a plan truly designed for every student to succeed." The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) prohibits the Secretary of Education from forcing, incentivizing, or coercing states to adopt Common Core and restores authority to the states. The bill reduces waste and authorizes a block grant from existing funding to give states and school districts more discretion with federal funds. With bipartisan support in both the House and Senate, the ESSA has gained favorable reviews from the National Governors Association, American Association of School Administrators, Council of Chief State School Officers, National PTA, National Assocation of Federal Impacted Schools, Council for Amercian Private Education and others. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook.
12.01.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) applauds the passage of two resolutions expressing congressional disapproval of President Obama’s war on coal. Specifically, the House passed S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24, which exercise Congress’ power to overturn a rule issued by a federal agency under the Congressional Review Act. If enacted, the resolutions will nullify the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations for new and existing coal-fired power plants. “President Obama has repeatedly ignored the will of the American people and the U.S. Congress by empowering EPA bureaucrats to wage his war on coal. These job-killing greenhouse gas regulations threaten the livelihoods of those who work in the coal fields and at coal-fired power plants in Appalachia,” said Rogers. “Coal provides affordable, reliable energy to homes and businesses all across the country. Without Congressional action pushing back on these new rules, EPA will burden American families and business owners with high electricity rates. I am pleased that the House and the Senate have taken action to ensure that American citizens are not paying the price for this Administration’s unworkable regulatory agenda.” The resolutions push back against EPA’s final rule governing greenhouse gas emissions from new power plants, as well as the agency’s Clean Power Plan, which impacts existing power plants. Both of these regulations are projected to raise electricity prices, eliminate good paying jobs in the coal industry, and threaten the reliability of the nation's electric grid. These resolutions also passed in the Senate on November 17 and now head to President Obama for his signature or veto. ###
11.23.2015	In an effort to save lives and continue turning the tide of prescription drug abuse across the country, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) encourages health care providers to prescribe painkillers that are more difficult to abuse. On Friday, Rogers and 16 of his colleagues sent a letter to Secretary Sylvia Burwell urging the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to better-inform prescribers about the availability of abuse-deterrent versions of the same painkillers they are prescribing. "As you know, abuse of prescription opioids continues to take a devastating toll on individuals, families and communities across the nation," the letter stated. "Unfortunately, the medical community has been slow to widely embrace the use of those products intended to deter and mitigate abuse." "We need to get these drugs into the hands of patients, so that folks won't be tempted to crush or snort or inject these dangerous drugs," said Rogers, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "It's really a matter of life and death." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), every day in the United States, 44 people die as a result of prescription opioid overdose. Deaths from overdose of prescription opioid painkillers have tripled since 2001, killing more than 16, 000 in the U.S. in 2013. Currently, Medicare Part D plans place greater restrictions on patient access to painkillers that are more difficult to abuse, which could deter research and innovation in the field of abuse-deterrent opioids (ADOs). The letter clarified, "While it is important to note that no ADO can entirely eliminate the risk of abuse, ADOs are an important part of the comprehensive strategy to reduce prescription opioid-related abuse, misuse and overdose. Continued innovation in this field will be critical to our success in bringing this epidemic to a close." The letter requests Secretary Burwell to review current labeling of abuse-deterrent painkillers to ensure that physicians have the guidance they need to prescribe them and to improve patient access. Click here to download the letter ###
11.19.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was appointed this week by House Speaker Paul Ryan to a task force for developing short-term and long-term strategies to address the Syrian refugee crisis. Members of the task force worked to develop the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038), which will protect Americans from ISIS and other terrorists by temporarily halting the President's plans to allow thousands of refugees to settle in the United States. Specifically, the SAFE Act prevents admission of any Syrian or Iraqi refugee until the nation's top security officials unanimously certify that the individual does not represent a security threat to the U.S. The bill, which Rogers cosponsored, passed in the House today by a vote of 289 to 137. Congressman Rogers made the following remarks on the House floor regarding the SAFE Act: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today first to reaffirm our solidarity with the people of France, our brethren in Beirut, and the victims of Metro Jet Flight 9268 who perished over the skies of the Sinai. The senseless and sinister violence, the deep-seated fanaticism, the utter and irrational disdain for western society advanced by ISIS – together they present a threat not just to national and global security, but also to the fundamental values that constitute the very fiber of human civilization. "They must be stopped. The violence must end. And the United States must do more. More to stamp out this evil, more to eradicate the threats posed here and abroad, and more to ensure that Americans can tuck in their children with a feeling of security that they will wake up for school in the morning free from fear. "That is why I support the SAFE Act, which we have under consideration today. It is a thoughtful bill which will further one of our principal national security priorities: keeping Americans safe as we work to eliminate the threat posed by ISIS. "The instability in Syria and the surrounding region has continued unabated for more than four years, and we have witnessed an indescribable humanitarian crisis because of the brutality of the Assad regime and radical Islamist groups, such as ISIS. In the wake of the Paris tragedy, we must step back and review the procedures in place for admitting refugees resulting from this conflict into our own country. We can and must implement a system that assists the victims of this tragedy and that prioritizes American security first. "HR 4038 will ensure that no refugee from Iraq or Syria steps foot on US soil without a thorough vetting by top US security personnel. The Department of Homeland Security, the FBI and the Director of National Intelligence must unanimously certify that a person seeking refuge in our country does not represent a security threat. This is an unprecedented vetting process to ensure dangerous people do not slip through the cracks. I urge your support so we can provide our military and intelligence personnel with the best possible chance for success as they work to keep us safe." Click here to view the C-SPAN video of Rogers' remarks ###
11.09.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) is excited to announce that innovative students from Kentucky's 5th Congressional District can participate in the Congressional App Challenge, an app competition for U.S. high school students. "The Congressional App Challenge for our region will work in concert with the SOAR mission to promote STEM-related education in our schools and showcase the young high-tech ingenuity already being displayed by many of our students," said Rogers. "I am eager to see the Apps that students submit for this challenge and look forward to displaying the winner on a national platform." The Congressional App Challenge submission period will run from November 9, 2015 through January 15, 2016 and must include a video of students presenting each app. Winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and the winning app for Kentucky's 5th District will be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol building. The challenge was created because Congress recognized that STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations and according to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the United States invests in our youth now, and helps them acquire these necessary STEM-based skills. The app challenge highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. The Internet Education Foundation will be serving as the operational “sponsor” of the Congressional App Challenge. For more information, please visit congressionalappchallenge.us. Student Information links: RULES GETTING STARTED DOWNLOADABLE SCHOOL FLYER REGISTER ###
11.05.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House and Senate for passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. It provides our U.S. Armed Forces with the funding and tools needed to provide critical national defense efforts and Overseas Contingency Operations. "There's no better way to begin upcoming Veteran's Day celebrations, than by passing legislation that ensures our veterans and active military service men and women are appropriately protected, compensated and equipped," said Rogers. "The bill reforms inefficient systems, ensures readiness and maintains robust military intelligence. I'm also proud that 83% of service members not eligible for military retirement will finally be eligible to participate in a savings plan for their future." The House passed the NDAA with an overwhelming majority vote of 370-58, while the Senate also heavily favored the bill with a vote of 71-25. Rogers urges the President to sign this bipartisan legislation into law. For more information about the NDAA, visit http://armedservices.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
11.05.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for fulfilling a pledge to pass the first long-term transportation bill in a decade, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 22). The six-year reauthorization bill reforms our nation's transportation system that encompasses four million miles of public roads and over 600,000 bridges, giving state and local governments the certainty and flexibility they need to make critical investments where its needed the most. "This bill cuts waste, opens transparency and boosts commerce, safety and quality of life," said Rogers. "Better infrastructure results in a better economic portfolio for Kentucky and that translates to more competitive opportunities to create good-paying jobs across the state. Additionally, this bill puts funding in the hands of local authorities who know where to focus first on improvements." The bill targets four specific areas: infrastructure improvements, efficiency reforms, national priorities and innovation: Improving Our Infrastructure • Provides certainty for state and local governments to undertake large-scale, complex transportation projects • Provides flexibility for states to invest in bridge rehabilitation and replacement • Eliminates red tape that slows down infrastructure improvements Reforms • Streamlines the environmental review and permitting process to cut red tape and accelerate project delivery • Provides more flexibility and decision-making to states and local governments to allow them to better address their priorities and needs • Eliminates and consolidates offices within the Department of Transportation • Establishes a National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau to provide assistance to help state, local, and private sector partners move transportation projects forward • Overhauls federal truck and bus safety grant programs and rulemaking processes • Reforms truck and bus safety programs and eases administrative burdens on small businesses Refocusing on National Priorities • Facilitates commerce and the movement of goods by establishing a Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects Program • Provides flexibility to states to target driver safety grants on their pressing safety needs • Consolidates truck and bus safety grant programs and provides state flexibility on safety priorities Innovation • Promotes private investment in our surface transportation system • Promotes the deployment of transportation technologies and congestion management tools that support an efficient and safe surface transportation system for all • Updates federal research and transportation standards development to reflect the growth of technology in transportation • Encourages the installation of vehicle-to-infrastructure equipment to reduce congestion and improve safety • Improves truck and bus safety by accelerating the introduction of new transportation technologies The U.S. House passed the bill with an overwhelming majority vote of 363-64. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
10.28.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded passage of the nation's bipartisan two-year federal budget deal in the U.S. House of Representatives. The House passed the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015 (H.R. 1314) after Rogers presented the House amendment today. The agreement averts a government shutdown and prevents the economic damage of a default by suspending the debt limit for two years. The agreement helps advance the nation toward goals of fiscal stability, strong national security, and entitlement reform. It also includes a critical Medicare fix to prevent a burdensome 52% fee increase in Medicare Part B premiums scheduled to take effect at the beginning of 2016. "A two-year plan provides much needed certainty to the appropriations process, ensuring our ability to make thoughtful, responsible funding decisions," said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "Having established, agreed-upon top line numbers for both FY16 and FY17 will allow Congress to do its work on behalf of the American people, and avoid a harmful government shutdown. This is particularly crucial when it comes to our national security: It provides the Pentagon with the certainty needed to plan for the future, maintain readiness, and provide for our troops." The U.S. Senate has until midnight on Thursday to pass the budget agreement to avoid a federal debt limit default. Click here to read Chairman Rogers' complete floor statement on the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. C-SPAN Video: Rogers manages federal bipartisan budget deal on the House floor ###
10.15.2015	Gov. Steve Beshear, Congressman Hal Rogers and the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) today joined federal leaders to announce $6 million in federal grants to improved economic development goals and job creation in eastern Kentucky. Kentucky received $3.8 million in federal Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant as part of the Partnership for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative. Other funding sources include a $2 million Employment and Training federal grant and $225,000 in ARC grants. The projects and funding sources include: • The Kentucky Cabinet for Finance and Administration received a $1 million EDA grant for the “Unleashing the POWER of the I-Way” to help businesses and communities in eastern Kentucky “unleash” the power of e-commerce. The project is also supported by a $2 million Employment and Training federal grant and a $75,000 ARC grant. The grants support the mission adopted by the Shaping Our Appalachian Region through its 2-year planning efforts. Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers created SOAR in 2013. • $468,635 EDA grant to the Kentucky Center for Agriculture and Rural Development for food chain supply development in eastern Kentucky. ARC is also awarding $75,000 to this project. • $200,000 EDA grant to Appalshop Inc. in Kentucky for Mines to Minds: The Southeast Kentucky High Tech Workforce Certificate Project. ARC is also awarding $75,000 to this project. • $100,000 EDA grant to Perry County Fiscal Court in Kentucky for the Southeastern Kentucky Economic HUB Opportunities Diversification Implementation Project • $1.2 million EDA grant to WestCare Substance Abuse Treatment in Kentucky for the WestCare Kentucky Economic Development Project at the Judy Patton Center • $300,000 EDA grant to the International Economic Development Council Inc., in Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee for the IEDC Rural Development Institute for Coal Communities As part of the POWER Initiative, EDA also awarded funds to the eastern Kentucky region for the creation of regional economic development plans designed to stimulate and guide the economic development efforts. These projects include: • $80,000 to the Kentucky River Area Development District to fund a leakage analysis that will provide the necessary first look by the Area Development Districts into what businesses exist in the 26 county regions. • $100,000 to Berea College in Kentucky to support the Promise Zone efforts to develop a collective impact strategy to fully engage Opportunity Youth in the work of economic transition. • $274,500 to the Big Sandy Area Development District in Kentucky to conduct RLF marketing, cluster/sector strategies development, resource/network development, entrepreneurial service provider networking/coordination. KentuckyWired or the I-WAY Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, announced the EDA funding at the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) Annual Conference in Somerset to Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Rogers, who are co-chairs of SOAR. ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl also announced the ARC funded grants. The broadband project, KentuckyWired or the I-WAY, will begin in eastern Kentucky and over the next three years will spread throughout the state. The benefits of broadband will break down geographic and financial barriers to education and economic development by providing access to affordable, high-quality Internet service to connect Kentuckians to the world. “These federal dollars will help strengthen our workforce and continue our commitment to eastern Kentucky to bring quality jobs through SOAR and ARC,” Gov. Beshear said. “Bringing broadband to our communities is not enough. Our team will help entrepreneurs and businesses to better understand how to take advantage of new market opportunities, encourage citizens to develop essential digital skills and consult with communities on what their role is in getting fiber to homes and businesses.” “Thanks to the collaboration of our federal partners, our local communities are one step closer to bringing dream projects to fruition,” said Congressman Rogers. “We know there isn't a silver bullet to overcome the many challenges we face in the Appalachian region, but with continued collaboration of resources and ingenuity, the future is much brighter for the people who want to live and work here at home.” “These Federal investments provide critical leverage for local leaders to make things happen in Appalachian communities.” said ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl. “Initiatives like these build the region's entrepreneurial ecosystem and contribute to making Appalachia the next great investment opportunity in America.” “The POWER initiative is a demonstration of this Administration’s continued commitment to breaking down silos within the federal government, enabling federal dollars to have a greater impact,” said Assistant Secretary Williams. “EDA is proud to lead this initiative with our federal partners and look forward to seeing the results of these investments in coal communities across the nation.” E-commerce training for businesses and entrepreneurs; community fiber readiness consulting and support services; and broadband promotion, adoption, and awareness are all strategic goals and action items of SOAR. The project will create “E-teams” to assist industry clusters as identified in the SOAR regional plan with a broadband implementation strategy tied to improved economic development goals and job creation. E-Commerce training and community fiber readiness consulting and support services will be offered in targeted sectors for established companies and entrepreneurial endeavors and to help the community prepare for the new IT infrastructure. E-Teams will work with industry partnerships, individual companies and entrepreneurs to improve their marketing, product development, production efficiency and process improvement, and bring new jobs to the region. The project will invest in local Community Internet Access Centers. At these centers, Kentuckians will be able to access computers, the Internet and other digital technologies that enable them to gather information, create, learn, and communicate with others while they develop essential digital skills. The project partners will work with KCTCS, other trainers and outside consultants to help companies, entrepreneurs and communities in eastern Kentucky engage quickly, effectively and efficiently with expanded broadband services and capabilities to stimulate new business development, job creation, international competitiveness, and regional entrepreneurism. Secretary Williams announces EDA funding for the POWER initiative ####
10.14.2015	On Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomed leaders from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl to southern and eastern Kentucky for the federal agency's annual conference, hosted this year by The Center for Rural Development in Somerset. Congressman Rogers and Tony Wilder, Commissioner of the Kentucky Department for Local Government, guided ARC leaders from the 13 Appalachian states on a tour of two local facilities where broadband access is an essential part of everyday business. "Thanks to ARC's investment in our region, the I-Way (KentuckyWired) will provide fiber optic broadband access to every county in the state," said Congressman Rogers, Co-Chair of SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region. "ARC leaders got a first-hand look at the types of high-tech jobs that our workforce can continue to accommodate. The tour was designed to inspire ARC leaders to help us plan for the many new tech-based opportunities that will be afforded by our new broadband interstate." The tour started at Blackboard, Inc. located at the Valley Oak Technology Complex in Somerset, where more than 300 people are employed year-round. Blackboard provides support services around-the-clock for students, faculty and staff at more than 500 higher-education institutions around the world. “When we opened our doors in Somerset nine years ago we were the only EdTech company in town,” said Willie Wilson, Director of Operations for the Blackboard Contact Center in Somerset. “Since then, we’ve been able to provide hundreds of employees the ability to work in the tech industry, and in turn opened lots of new and exciting career opportunities for them.” The tour bus continued on to the City of Williamsburg where the Kentucky Consular Center (KCC) is based. Patrick Kennedy, Under Secretary of State for Management joined us for an update on the important work at KCC, where facial recognition reviews are processed for all nonimmigrant visa cases worldwide. "We could not ask for a better staff than the one we have at KCC. Our team in Kentucky takes on every new task we give them and always exceeds our expectations," said Sarah Welborne, Director of the Kentucky Consular Center. "They are highly skilled and extremely dedicated to KCC's mission." "The United States receives millions of visa applications each year and this Kentucky team helps process hundreds of thousands of those every single day," said Congressman Rogers. "I am so proud of the top-notch work of the staff at this facility and the important role they play in this step of our homeland security." The ARC Conference entitled Appalachian Apps: Transforming Our Region's Economy continues through Thursday, October 15. Click here for more information. Beginning at 9:15 a.m. on Thursday, October 15, Congressman Rogers will join Earl Gohl and Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear for a panel discussion about the future of the Appalachian Region. The panel will be moderated by Renee Shaw from Kentucky Educational Television. Following the discussion, a special announcement will be made by federal and state officials. ###
10.09.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit ordered a nationwide stay on a rule drafted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers redefining "Waters of the United States," also known as WOTUS. The federal court in Ohio put the rule on hold in an effort to streamline a decision on its legality, pending litigation in multiple courts across the country. "I have said it before, and I'll say it again: President Obama has repeatedly tested the limits of the U.S. Constitution with his radical, anti-coal regulatory agenda. Today, the federal courts have signaled that it's time to pump the breaks," said Rogers, a long-time member of the Congressional Coal Caucus. "Coal operators, farmers, small business owners and entrepreneurs across the country are already overwhelmed by the EPA's heavy-handed regulations, which are killing good-paying jobs in our communities. This court's decision is a step in the right direction, and I'll continue to fight for legislation that reverses this rule and restores some sanity to the permitting process in this country." Earlier this year, both chambers of Congress passed legislation aimed at reversing the WOTUS rule. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1732) and the U.S. Senate passed the Federal Water Quality Protect Act (S 1140). As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has also included language in the Fiscal Year 2016 spending bills for the Corps and EPA that would prohibit the agencies from moving forward with this rule. ###
10.08.2015	On Wednesday, legislation was signed into law to protect small to mid-sized employers from job-killing regulations implemented through Obamacare. The Protecting Affordable Coverage for Employees (PACE) Act (H.R. 1624) succeeded through the House and Senate last week with support from Congressman Hal Rogers as a cosponsor of the legislation. Beginning next year, Obamacare was scheduled to expand the small group market for health insurance from employers with 1-50 employees to those with up to 100 employees. The PACE Act makes the expansion optional for states, maintaining the same health insurance plans for small business workers and employers. "Obamacare has created countless disruptions to healthcare coverage and unaffordable premiums since inception, but this law will give each state the freedom to prevent another costly change," said Rogers. "This law gives peace-of-mind to both employees and job creators by allowing them to keep current health insurance plans." Congressman Brett Guthrie, a member of the Kentucky delegation, authored the legislation that gained bipartisan support. President Obama signed the PACE Act into law on Wednesday evening. ####
10.05.2015	Eastern Kentucky communities will soon have a chance to apply for grants of up to $250,000 each to support work on job creation, broadband expansion, health and more. The SOAR Executive Board approved funding criteria and an application process for the Kentucky Appalachian Regional Development (KARD) fund today at its meeting in Prestonsburg, Ky. “We’re excited to see what our communities are doing to impact important community challenges like job growth and leadership training,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “Successful local initiatives can be replicated, and KARD grants are a good chance for the region to see what’s working.” The state established KARD through a $2 million appropriation during the 2015 legislative session. This seed money will support efforts that include job creation and retention, entrepreneurship, tourism, broadband deployment, workforce training, leadership development, health and wellness, infrastructure and/or economic diversity. “SOAR is designed to support locally-driven efforts to advance job development, workforce training, health access and other markers that enhance quality of life,” said Governor Steve Beshear. “These KARD grants will give local programs a jump start toward making important community improvements. “The KARD fund gives SOAR the opportunity to support and invest in local projects that will create jobs and increase economic opportunities,” said Congressman Rogers. “This is a way for SOAR to help advance the vision of projects that will benefit the people of eastern Kentucky the most.” KARD will be administered through the Department for Local Government. Organizations physically present in the region, such as non-profits, entities designated to represent SOAR, and counties or cities, may apply for these funds. Priority will be given to projects that present the greatest likelihood of regional economic impact. Other criteria include: The unemployment level in each community where the project will be located; The likelihood that the project will generate future revenue for the community or Commonwealth; The number of new jobs and the wages to be paid; How much will the project benefit the economies and communities of multiple jurisdictions; Whether there is a funding match from the community, foundations or private sector; The likelihood of sustainable economic success; The inclusion of a strategy related to the KentuckyWired project and technology as an economic driver; The level of partnerships across geographies and sectors; and The economic impact of the downturn of the coal industry in those communities. Organizations meeting the above criteria can apply online at www.soar-ky.org. The first round of applications are due Dec. 18. The maximum grant amount is $250,000. Board honors Governor Beshear The SOAR executive board also took time to honor Governor Steve Beshear in his last meeting as SOAR co-chair. Gov. Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers created the SOAR initiative in 2013 and have been dedicated to its progress ever since. Gov. Beshear is term-limited and will leave the Governor’s office in December. “Our region could not have asked for a better, more selfless leader than Governor Steve Beshear,” said Arnett. “Together with Congressman Rogers, he put politics aside and made a very public commitment to our counties and communities. He knows this work will take years, and he started it anyway. We are deeply grateful for his vision and his commitment to Appalachia.” Congressman Hal Rogers introduced a video recapping the Governor’s work on SOAR, then presented him with a customized rocking chair to honor his service. Click here to watch the video. "The Governor has been a steadfast partner as we launched SOAR - a long term mission to revitalize eastern Kentucky. His dedication to bring statewide broadband and other critical projects to fruition has been remarkable," said Congressman Rogers. "I am grateful for his partnership and friendship. Through SOAR, we were able to put politics aside and focus on the importance of being Kentuckians first." Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) is a homegrown movement in Eastern Kentucky that is building on the strengths of the region and shoring up its weaknesses. Through the wisdom, resources and energy of our people, together we will make historic change for the better – in health and wellness, job creation, workforce training, education and other quality-of-life factors. Gov. Beshear, Jared Arnett, Congressman Rogers SOAR Executive Committee applauds Gov. Beshear for his service as co-chair ####
10.05.2015	Less than a year after Governor Steve Beshear unveiled the first Mountain Parkway Expansion sign to mark the beginning of road construction, more than one-third of the project is under construction or nearing shovel-ready status. Beshear visited the first site of construction to see the progress that is transforming the parkway into a modern transportation corridor. He was joined by Congressman Hal Rogers and Jared Arnett, executive director of Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR). The SOAR initiative was formed by Beshear and Rogers to overcome persistent challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to job training, health, education and economic development. “The project to four-lane and extend the Mountain Parkway all the way to Prestonsburg is on track, and it’s exciting to see this progress in person,” Beshear said. “The General Assembly and I made a commitment to the people of Eastern Kentucky to finish this long overdue project. With continued funding, we will meet our goal to have the entire parkway completed or under construction by the year 2020. That’s impressive work by the entire team.” “Working in concert with SOAR, we are closing gaps in economic opportunities across our region and I’m pleased to see the expansion of the Mountain Parkway speeding ahead,” said Congressman Rogers. “The future looks bright in Eastern Kentucky as progress continues on the parkway and the I-Way, our broadband interstate.” Building a better road, creating more opportunities Governor Beshear, Congressman Rogers and other leaders visited at a project site just west of Salyersville, where construction workers are building a new interchange that will serve a planned industrial park. Kentucky Transportation Cabinet Secretary Mike Hancock and Mountain Parkway Expansion Project Manager Marshall Carrier led a tour of the site and provided a status report on the overall project. “Governor Beshear and the legislature outlined an aggressive goal for this project when they approved the Road Plan last year, and we will deliver on their promise,” Hancock said. “Our Cabinet and our project team have made it a priority to complete this massive undertaking as quickly as possible. Our work is not just here – where construction activity is visible – but also in areas along the parkway where planning and engineering work are well underway.” By next year, about 16 miles of roadway will be under construction or shovel-ready to allow for construction and property acquisition when funding is made available. The plan includes starting work next year in the Restaurant Row section of Salyersville – the busiest and most congested portion of the parkway. Construction work on this crucial segment of the project was sped by a $24 million federal TIGER grant. Work could begin next summer to widen and improve about 8 miles of roadway spanning Wolfe, Morgan and Magoffin counties if the legislature provides funding in the next biennial budget. As additional funds are made available, the remaining Mountain Parkway Expansion projects are in a position to start property acquisition and construction between 2017 and 2020. “Everyone can see the impressive work that has started here to make this a better road for the citizens of Eastern Kentucky,” Beshear added. “But we must also envision the economic opportunities that are being created as we four-lane the entire parkway and construct a new corridor for commerce. We expect this transformational highway project to support new businesses and new industries that will bring more and better jobs to this region of the Commonwealth.” About the Mountain Parkway Expansion The Mountain Parkway Expansion is a 46-mile transportation improvement project that will create a wider, safer connection between Eastern Kentucky and the rest of the Commonwealth. It is a key transportation project designed to close the only gap in a 400-mile, four-lane, high-speed corridor for commerce and mobility across Kentucky from Pikeville to Paducah. The project will widen 30 miles of the existing parkway from two lanes to four lanes, and will extend the parkway another 16 miles by widening KY 114 between Salyersville and Prestonsburg. For additional information, go to www.mtnparkway.com. Project updates may also be found on Facebook (www.facebook.com/mtnparkway) and Twitter (@MtnParkway). A project office is open in Magoffin Plaza in Salyersville; call (606) 349-8160 for hours. ###
10.01.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers voted for the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act (H.R. 3457) to force Iran to pay $43 billion in overdue court-ordered compensation for American victims of Iranian terrorism before any U.S. sanctions are lifted. In 1989, Col. William Higgins of Danville, Kentucky was abducted, tortured and killed by Hezbollah in Beirut. A judgement of $355 million in damages was awarded by a U.S. court to his family under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. It's one of more than 80 judgements against Iran for its state-sponsored terrorism. "It's unconscionable for the President to move forward with his deal with Iran before they pay for the horrific grief and heartache they've caused for these American families," said Congressman Rogers. "Iran must be held accountable, rather than reaping benefits of any relief from U.S. economic sanctions." The House of Representatives passed the legislation, which now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
09.29.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for the Women's Public Health and Safety Act(H.R. 3495) to ensure that States can elect to exclude abortion providers, like Planned Parenthood, from receiving Medicaid payments. "Our states should have the authority to decide whether taxpayer dollars can be spent by an organization that allegedly profits from selling body parts and organs of aborted babies. There are numerous other women's health providers worthy of federal support that protect life, rather than destroy it," said Congressman Rogers, a long-time member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus. "This legislation would allow states to exclude abortion clinics from the list of Medicaid providers, except in cases resulting from rape or incest, or those when the mother's life is endangered." According to a recent Government Accountability Office report, Planned Parenthood received about $1.2 billion through Medicaid over a three-year period. In 2013 alone, Planned Parenthood used those funds to perform more than 327,000 abortions, averaging one abortion every three minutes. Some states legislatures have requested the flexibility to choose to withhold Medicaid funds from flowing to abortion providers, if they so choose. This bill would exclude those providers from Medicaid's "free choice of qualified providers" so that States can shift those funds to other community health centers that provide women's health services. Along with passage of this legislation, the House also passed two separate bills earlier this month to protect the life of unborn babies. Rogers joined his colleagues in voting for the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (H.R. 3134) and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3504). ####
09.29.2015	Thanks to a new $2.2 million grant from the federal Economic Development Agency (EDA), more Kentuckians will receive training for in-demand telecommunications jobs related to the new statewide project, KentuckyWired, which will install more than 3,400 miles of fiber optic cable throughout the state. The funds will support construction of a $4.5 million training facility to house the Broadband Technology Center on the Pikeville campus of Big Sandy Community and Technical College (BSCTC). Working in partnership with the University of Pikeville (UPIKE) and the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP), the BSCTC Broadband Technology Center will house the Kentucky Regional Telecommunications Installation and Maintenance Training Program, and will serve as a hub of broadband education and training in the southeastern region of the United States. “New jobs are coming to eastern Kentucky – high-tech, good-paying, long-term jobs are already being secured in our region by the I-Way, our new technology highway now under construction,” said Congressman Hal Rogers, co-chair of SOAR (Shaping Our Appalachian Region). “This new training facility is a critical step for preparing our students and workforce for the newfound opportunities that lie ahead. The only limits for the I-Way are our ingenuity and preparation.” Earlier this year, Senator Mitch McConnell contacted EDA in support of the competitive grant application, highlighting that the educational and workforce training facility would offer certifications and degrees in telecommunications installation and maintenance for industry technicians. “I was happy to assist with the Pikeville community’s efforts to secure federal funding for this new facility that will provide workforce training opportunities for individuals in eastern Kentucky and serve counties in the federally-designated Promise Zone,” said Senator McConnell. “Workers receiving training at this new telecommunications facility will help diversify and strengthen the region’s economy.” BSCTC is designing multiple platforms of classes and training to support KentuckyWired, which will help deliver high-speed Internet to every county in Kentucky over the next three years. The project, championed by SOAR leaders, will begin in Eastern Kentucky. “Developing smart, adaptive and in-demand college curriculum and facilities to support the new broadband frontier is proof that KentuckyWired is already having a positive effect in our state,” said Governor Steve Beshear. “We will need educated and trained workers right away to make KentuckyWired a success, and the Broadband Technology Center at BSCTC is a key component of that effort.” The college was the first in eastern Kentucky to develop a fiber-optics training program sanctioned by the Fiber Optics Association (FOA). BSCTC is working with the University of Pikeville to establish a seamless transfer to a baccalaureate degree. “No project will be more transformative for Eastern Kentucky than KentuckyWired, which will bring much-needed high-speed Internet service to every corner of our region,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “Reliable, robust Internet will bring the world to our mountains and allow eastern Kentucky families to work and learn in their hometowns.” This project is part of the Kentucky Community and Technical College System’s (KCTCS) partnership with SOAR. KCTCS and SOAR share a mission of improving employability and quality of life for the people of eastern Kentucky. KCTCS does this by offering affordable, accessible education to train the workers needed for local jobs in SOAR communities. “I want to thank the U.S. Economic Development Agency, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Congressman Hal Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear for their work in turning the dream of a Broadband Technology Center into a reality,” said Dr. Devin Stephenson, president of BSCTC. “With the installation of dark fiber across Eastern Kentucky, our region will stand on the right side of the digital divide. We will not only be connected to world-class upload and download speeds, but new opportunities that will position the region for economic investments that will fully embrace our highly-skilled and highly-educated workforce.” Once complete, the BSCTC Broadband Technology Center will house the college’s Fast-Track Information Technology program, as well as an early college academy for information technology for high school juniors and seniors, as well as other technology-based workforce solutions programs. ####
09.25.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after Speaker John Boehner announced he would resign as Speaker of the House and retire from Congress at the end of October: “For the last five years, Speaker Boehner has led the House of Representatives with grace and dignity. His work to protect this institution has demonstrated his deep love for the Congress and all it stands for – and his announcement today only underscores that. In the face of an intractable president and, until last year, an obstructive Democrat Senate, Speaker Boehner ushered through many significant accomplishments – including enacting $175 billion in spending cuts and stopping a host of harmful White House policies and regulations. His presence, leadership, and friendship will be deeply missed. I wish John, Debbie, and their loved ones the very best.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
09.18.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives for passing two separate bills on Friday afternoon to protect the life of unborn babies. Rogers joined his colleagues in voting for the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (H.R. 3134) and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3504). "As documented in horrific videos recently uncovered, representatives of Planned Parenthood have displayed an abhorrent lack of concern and respect for innocent human lives. We simply cannot allow these alleged barbaric practices to continue," said Rogers, a longtime member of the Congressional Pro-Live Caucus. "Today, we stood up for life by passing legislation that will prevent a penny of Americans' tax dollars from supporting the work of Planned Parenthood while the organization is investigated for these allegations. It is difficult to justify federal investment in an organization with a moral compass so misguided that the harvesting of body parts of infants, even if they have been born alive, is acceptable. There are plenty of other health care providers dedicated solely to women's health issues that are eligible for and worthy of funding support." The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 would place a one-year moratorium on any federal funding for Planned Parenthood while the organization's activities are under investigation. The funding would be redirected to Federally Qualified Health Centers to continue providing women's health care services. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would require medical professionals to care for an infant born alive despite efforts to abort it. It also holds medical professionals responsible for any failure to care for these innocent babies, while protecting the rights of the mothers. Click here to watch a video testimonial of two born-alive survivors. The bill also strengthens measures in the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that the House passed in May. Both bills now head to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
09.09.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers cosponsored and voted for the "Protecting Our Infants Act" (H.R. 1462) that passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday, September 8, 2015. The legislation is a response to the growing epidemic of prescription drug abuse, and specifically, aims to reduce the instances and impact of drug withdrawal in newborn babies. The bill requires the development of a coordinated national effort to identify, treat and prevent prenatal opioid abuse and neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). NAS is a collection of symptoms infants can experience as a result of prenatal drug exposure and addiction caused by the infant's mother abusing addictive drugs like heroin, methadone, and prescription painkillers while pregnant. Once born and the exposure ends, the infant can experience withdrawal symptoms. In the United States, the incidence of NAS has tragically risen from 1.20 per 1,000 hospital births in 2000 to 3.39 in 2009. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, the number of infants suffering from NAS in the Commonwealth rose from less than 30 in 2000 to more than 950 in 2013. "This legislation will help support pregnant women who are addicted to powerful painkillers and treat their newborns who often suffer the heartbreaking consequences of withdrawal," said Rogers, who is the Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "We need to know the best way to help these mothers and protect their innocent babies from the seizures, tremors and the long-term complications they have from the powerful painkillers that enter their system. And we hope to have those answers within one year of passing this life-saving legislation." Within one year of becoming law, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality must report on existing research of NAS, barriers to treatment for pregnant women who abuse painkillers, an evaluation of these mothers and their newborns, along with recommendations on preventing, identifying and treating NAS and opioid dependency in women. Additionally, the Department of Health and Human Services must develop a strategy to address gaps in research and programs. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention must also provide technical assistance to states to improve NAS surveillance. With a national standard for treating NAS, the "Protecting Our Infants Act" will ultimately reduce healthcare costs and save lives. The bill will now be considered in the U.S. Senate where Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has sponsored companion legislation. ###
08.31.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined local leaders to honor Breathitt County Veterans and to provide an update on how SOAR – Shaping Our Appalachian Region – could impact Breathitt County. Rogers spoke to local leaders, veterans and students on Monday morning at the National Guard Armory in Jackson. Rogers presented J.L. Smith, Breathitt County Judge Executive, with an American flag that had been flown over the U.S. Capital in honor of local veterans. “I wanted to commemorate the valor and patriotism of the veterans of Breathitt County,” said Congressman Rogers. “You’ve passed down a legacy of heroes through every war, from World War I, to Vietnam, to Afghanistan. Our veterans gave their all for our country and we owe them a great debt of gratitude.” Rogers has continually sought to improve assistance for veterans across the country through legislation that will hold the VA accountable for its mismanagement of veterans’ benefits and services. During the event, Rogers also recognized Rose Wolfe, Mayor of Jackson, for her support of local veterans. Rogers presented Mayor Wolfe with a Difference Maker Award for her leadership in revitalizing downtown Jackson, supporting local first responders, and spear-heading a critical grant application for improvements at the Julian Carroll Airport. “Mayor Wolfe has provided crucial leadership to the City of Jackson,” said Rogers. “Her endearing, no-nonsense leadership style has helped forge important partnerships in Breathitt County and across county lines.” Rogers encouraged Breathitt County leaders and educators to prepare for one of SOAR’s first major projects, KentuckyWired, or the “I-Way.” Monday afternoon, Rogers joined Governor Beshear, and other local, state and federal leaders in Hazard to kickoff the statewide broadband project, which begins construction in Eastern Kentucky. The project will bring high speed, high capacity broadband access to every county in the state. “Broadband could be our ticket to more and better jobs, better educational opportunities for our students, better health care monitoring for our families and seniors, and a path forward for a better way of life,” said Rogers. The first phase of the project is scheduled to be complete by Spring 2016. The statewide network will be complete in 2018. For more information about SOAR, visit www.soar-ky.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ####
08.31.2015	HAZARD, Ky. (Aug. 31, 2015) – Reliable, high-speed Internet is coming to every county of the state, and supporters say the broadband project will be the key catalyst for profound and sweeping growth in job creation, health access and education. To celebrate the construction of the statewide KentuckyWired, I-Way broadband network, Gov. Steve Beshear, Congressman Hal Rogers, state and local officials and hundreds of citizens gathered at Hazard Community and Technical College to learn more about KentuckyWired and how Kentucky’s future will benefit from broadband. The broadband project will begin in eastern Kentucky and over the next three years will spread throughout the state. The benefits of broadband will break down geographic and financial barriers to education and economic development by providing access to affordable, high-quality Internet service to connect Kentuckians to the world. “This is an exciting day,” said Gov. Beshear. “The potential for every Kentuckian to tap into the global economy, compete for higher paying jobs, collaborate with researchers across the globe, take classes online, or access increased medical care make KentuckyWired one of the most important infrastructure projects in our state’s history. While KentuckyWired is starting in the east, this network will cover approximately 3,400 miles across the state to bring badly needed Internet access closer to all our communities.” The push for reliable, accessible and affordable high-speed broadband is one recommendation that emerged from the SOAR (Shaping Our Appalachian Region) initiative. That recommendation, along with the continuing loss of coal jobs, has been the reason for starting the project in the SOAR region. As a long-time technology leader in the region, The Center for Rural Development partnered with the Commonwealth to guide the eastern Kentucky phase of the project. The leaders also called on communities and local providers to get ready for the project by preparing the “last mile,” or the Internet hookups from the broadband “highway” to individual homes and businesses. “Thanks to the I-Way, we will essentially have endless capacity and endless connectivity,” said Congressman Rogers. “The only limit is our creativity. It’s up to us to put this resource to work for economic diversity, job creation and improved opportunities for the people of eastern Kentucky.” Today’s event included live demonstrations of broadband’s potential for improving economic development and quality of life, including demonstrations of telemedicine, distance learning and entrepreneurial technologies. Broadband is an ‘economic lifeline’ Broadband means a wide band of frequencies is available to transmit data, similar to multiple lanes on an interstate highway that allow more cars to travel at the same time. Recently, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) increased the broadband standard to 25 mbps, which means even more Kentuckians do not have service at the minimum level. KentuckyWired will build the state’s middle-mile fiber network and will provide wholesale access to local Internet service providers who can extend fiber to homes and businesses. “Consider the KentuckyWired project to be similar to building a highway through the state, and then local communities will build out the roads leading from the highway to neighborhoods and businesses,” said Steve Rucker, deputy secretary of the Finance and Administration Cabinet. “We need our communities to make plans now for building those ‘last miles’ to citizens.” Broadband, like electricity, water and sewer, is an essential service in the 21st century economy, but Kentucky consistently ranks at or near the bottom for broadband access and adoption. As other states enhance their broadband capacities, Kentucky falls further behind, which is why KentuckyWired is on an aggressive three-year timeframe for substantial completion. “Today’s businesses require round-the-clock availability to markets around the world. Every inventory record, product order and accounting system demands strong Internet service in order to communicate with customers, suppliers and headquarters,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “Spotty, overpriced Internet service repels new business and stifles entrepreneurship. KentuckyWired is bringing fiber to our communities, and it can’t get here fast enough. It’s a literal economic lifeline.” Project leverages the power of the private sector The project will be designed, built, operated and maintained through a 30-year public-private-partnership (P3) led by Macquarie Capital and industry partners. These partners have executed community fiber projects across the country, but note that Kentucky’s is the largest P3 fiber partnership in the country, and the only one which is fully open-access. “Macquarie Capital and its industry partners are extremely excited about the opportunity to develop the KentuckyWired broadband network, bringing together true specialists in each of the disciplines necessary to successfully deliver this complex project,” said Nick Butcher, head of North American Infrastructure at Macquarie Capital. “A high-speed, open access network positions Kentucky to provide competitive 21st century Internet services to homes and businesses, which will rapidly increase the state’s capacity for long-term economic growth and give the users greater choice among service providers and product platforms.” The total project is estimated to cost $324 million. The General Assembly allocated $30 million in the 2014 legislative session and $23.5 million in federal funds have been appropriated. Through the P3 approach the remaining funding will come from the consortium partners. The private partners have a target for hiring Kentuckians. “If we were to rely solely on state government funding to get this project off the ground, it would take years, if not decades. Those kinds of tax dollars just aren’t available,” said Gov. Beshear. “Today we are celebrating how fast we’ve been able to put this project together by working with the private sector.” “The KentuckyWired project is big news for the Commonwealth and I’m pleased to see it begin here in East Kentucky,” Senate President Robert Stivers said. “Increasing Internet access will provide for greater economic, educational and cultural opportunities not just in this region but for all of Kentucky.” “Reliable, fast-speed Internet is absolutely critical in making sure our businesses, schools and homes have the online access they need to thrive today,” House Speaker Greg Stumbo said. “This project is on track to be a true game-changer, especially for eastern Kentucky, and it will level the playing field in ways we can only dream about today. I’m proud other legislators and I could play a role in making this possible.” “This broadband project is a federal investment in Kentucky’s economic future,” said Earl Gohl, federal co-chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. “It will strengthen Kentucky’s rural communities and create opportunities for the next generation of Kentuckians.” “Access to high-speed, broadband Internet resources is vital to students, teachers, business people and commerce,” said Bob King, president of the Council on Postsecondary Education. “High-speed access eliminates physical, geographic and academic isolation and will open up the SOAR region to the world. Network Authority to Oversee Project, Protect Taxpayer Interests Since first announced in December of last year, the Finance and Administration Cabinet has been working closely with the Macquarie team on negotiating details and meeting with stakeholders to devise the best plan to bring the project to fruition, including using existing infrastructure when possible. The first beneficiaries of the state’s broadband network will include nearly 1,100 government facilities. Communities are expected to then continue the “build-out” of the last mile connecting fiber to individual homes and businesses. The newly created Kentucky Communications Network Authority and its governing board will manage the KentuckyWired open-access broadband network by overseeing the public-private partnership master agreement with consortium partners. Gov. Beshear created the authority by executive order and attached it to the Office of the Governor. ###
08.24.2015	HAZARD, Ky. -- U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear will join federal, state and local leaders to kickoff the first phase of Kentucky's statewide broadband project, KentuckyWired, also known as Eastern Kentucky's "I-Way." The public is encouraged to be a part of this historic event on Monday, August 31, 2015 at 1:30 p.m. at the Hazard Community and Technical College in the First Federal Center. The event includes live demonstrations to show how we can utilize this new high speed, high capacity broadband across the SOAR region. Click here to download an event flyer. WHO: U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers Gov. Steve Beshear Earl Gohl, ARC Federal Co-Chair State Legislators WHAT: Broadband Kick-off Event WHEN: Monday, August 31, 2015, at 1:30 p.m. Eastern time WHERE: Hazard Community and Technical College First Federal Center, Rm. 123 One Community College Drive Hazard, Kentucky ###
07.31.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Federal Bureau of Prisons has released the final Environmental Impact Study (EIS) for a proposed federal corrections facility in Letcher County. The EIS contract was awarded in April to provide a detailed analysis of two potential sites. As a result, the study suggests that a 584-acre site in the Roxana community will be the best location for a new prison. "The site selection for the new proposed prison is exciting news for the people of Eastern Kentucky, as we get one step closer to another opportunity to create hundreds of much-needed jobs in Letcher County," said Rogers. "The progress for this project is a testament to the local grassroots efforts of the Letcher County Planning Commission and I applaud their persistence in recruiting jobs to the region." In 2006, Rogers secured an initial $5 million in Congress enabling the federal Bureau of Prisons to initiate the site planning and selection process, along with related environmental assessments for a possible Letcher County location. The BOP Director will soon issue the official "Record of Decision" for the site selection. To read the EIS, visit: http://www.fbopletchercountyeis.com. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Instagram or on Facebook. ###
07.31.2015	U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, U.S. Sen. Rand Paul, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers and U.S. Rep. Thomas Massie sent a joint letter of support to President Obama requesting an expedited review of Governor Steve Beshear's request for a Major Disaster Declaration for Individual Assistance for Carter, Johnson, Rowan and Trimble Counties as a result of the deadly storms that swept through the Commonwealth July 11-20, 2015. "Despite the extensive and valiant response, search and rescue efforts of a wide range of volunteer agencies, the damage caused by these storms far exceeds the capacity of the state and local government,” the letter states. “Additionally, the counties being requested for federal assistance are confronting a number of significant economic challenges and the need among many of these citizens is great. Timely and full implementation of the Individuals and Households Assistance program would provide much needed aid to the Kentucky communities so severely affected by this disaster." Four people tragically lost their lives in Eastern Kentucky as a flash flood destroyed much of the Flat Gap community in a matter of hours. In his letter to the President, Governor Beshear detailed the extensive search and rescue efforts in Johnson County alone. "There were 41 searchers representing the local sheriff, Kentucky State Police, and Kentucky Fish and Wildlife, and 53 Kentucky National Guardsmen. There were six volunteer canine teams from Kentucky Search Dogs, Grand Paws, Commonwealth Canine, Ohio Valley Search and Rescue, Bloodhound SAR, and CSI of Kentucky that were comprised of 27 handlers and 30 canines," wrote Gov. Beshear. "The primary work is being accomplished in Johnson County with other significant efforts in Rowan, Carter, and Trimble counties. Groups are providing an array of assistance including sheltering, feeding, volunteer and donations management, clearing of debris, and counseling." Additionally, many homes were destroyed or heavily damaged, along with power systems, water distribution capabilities and transportation infrastructure. As a result of the damage, 30 counties and 11 cities issued a local state of emergency. On July 13, Governor Beshear issued an Executive Order declaring a State of Emergency for all of Kentucky. After initial assessments were completed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Governor determined that the severity and scope of the damage is beyond the capabilities of the Commonwealth and local governments, leading to his request for federal assistance. The request includes implementation of the full Individuals and Hoouseholds Assistance Program including the Crisis Counseling Program, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Disaster Case Management, Disaster Legal Services, and the Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Program. Click here to download a copy of the letter from the Kentucky federal delegation to the President. ###
07.29.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), a veteran of the Kentucky and North Carolina National Guard, voted for legislation to ensure fellow veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces receive the best possible care from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Subsequently, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the VA Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 1994) on Wednesday afternoon. The bill empowers the Secretary of the VA to remove incompetent employees, improves protections for whistleblowers, and strengthens performance measures for senior employees. "It's time to bring the focus back to quality veterans care, and we can only do that through a reliable management system with leaders in place who care more about reducing the backlog of veterans benefits than an employee's next bonus," said Rogers. "The VA isn't exempt from accountability, transparency or efficiency and this bill will hold employees to those standards for the sake of our veterans." The VA Accountability Act of 2015 will also extend the probationary period for new VA employees from 12 to 18 months, limits the amount VA can pay in bonuses through the year 2024, and requires the Government Accountability Office to study and report to Congress on VA labor union activity. Rogers authored the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 that became law last August. It made a number of improvements to programs and policies of the Veterans Health Administration within the VA to increase access and reduce wait times for veterans who seek care at VA facilities. The law established the Veterans Choice Program that would allow the VA to authorize care for veterans outside the VA health care system if certain conditions are met. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. ###
07.28.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined his colleagues in the House in passing the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 427), to give local job creators relief from the overwhelming burden of federal regulations. The Obama administration issued its 500th major regulation in June, with an estimated cost of $14,976 per U.S. household last year. "Local business owners have stacks of binders on their desks that are filled with countless pages of crushing regulations that continue to stall daily business, resulting in costly consequences for their bottom-lines. Ultimately, those costs are passed on to families and individuals across the country," said Rogers. "We need to cut through the bureaucratic red tape and allow businesses to operate with commonsense requirements that help them improve productivity. We shouldn't be burying our businesses with costly paperwork and operations." According to the Congressional Budget Office, federal agencies publish an average of 82 major rules per year. These include the so-called "Clean Power Plan" and "Waters of the United States" regulations published by the Environmental Protection Agency - each of which will threaten thousands of jobs and force employers to pass their compliance costs on to our families. Small communities across Eastern Kentucky are suffering from strangulation by regulation, from our farmlands to our coalfields. The REINS Act places authority in the hands of Congress to approve any major new regulation that has the potential to place excessive costs on the economy totaling $100 million or more, increases costs to consumers, or adversely impacts U.S. competitiveness. The legislation curbs unnecessary regulations from unelected federal officials and gives Congress and the American people more oversight and control over the process. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation Tuesday evening and the bill now moves on to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.23.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for legislation that will establish improved health and safety standards for the management and disposal of coal ash, while also protecting an estimated 316,00 jobs across the country. The Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act of 2015 (H.R.1734) reins in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by putting states in charge of implementing coal ash rules and ensures proper protections are in place for public health and the environment. "Recycled coal ash can be beneficial to a region like Eastern Kentucky with abundant coalfields, so long as the disposal process is governed by common sense regulations and guidance," said Congressman Rogers. "We achieved a major victory when EPA opted to regulate coal ash as a non-hazardous material in December, but much uncertainty remains. Once again, EPA has failed to account for the impact of its regulations on the number of jobs lost in the region and the local economy. This legislation will empower the states to implement a plan that considers the local environmental impact, while also working to save jobs in the region." Coal ash is produced when coal is burned to generate electricity. Rather than being sent to a landfill, these byproducts can be recycled for materials commonly used in construction and manufacturing, like concrete and roofing tiles. The recycling and beneficial use of coal ash materials keeps utility costs low and reduces waste. This legislation allows States to operate a coal ash permit program that meets the minimum statutory requirements, in lieu of a federal program, to ensure that coal ash is recycled or disposed in a safe and responsible manner. States may choose to make their programs more protective than the minimum federal standards. The EPA will implement programs for states that choose not to implement their own. The legislation was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday evening and now moves to the Senate for consideration. #####
07.21.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), a long-time member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus, released the following statement regarding newly released videos detailing the disgraceful practices of allegedly selling fetal organs for profit by Planned Parenthood. "The complete disregard for human life and unfathomable practices of Planned Parenthood's alleged brokering of fetal organs and tissue must be stopped. The fact that this organization ends the life of an unborn child every two minutes each year, is simply heartbreaking. I am encouraged by the prompt investigations that are now underway by the relevant House committees to fight for the rights of the unborn and end these evil practices." Rogers joined nearly 130 Members of Congress in requesting the investigation into Planned Parenthood by the House Judiciary Committee and the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The letter urged the Committees to explore the activities of abortion providers, such as Planned Parenthood, that broker fetal tissue and any incentives created by the National Institutes of Health funding for research using the body parts of unborn children. ###
07.20.2015	Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers joined public health and university officials today to announce a new dentist recruitment program aimed at promoting sustained oral health and well-being in eastern Kentucky. The new loan forgiveness program is supported by $500,000 in state funds and is available for dental students who practice in the region. The dental schools at the University of Kentucky and University of Louisville will administer the program, providing two to five awardees $100,000 each for a two-year commitment. Reversing the oral health issues facing eastern Kentucky has been a major goal of mine throughout my administration, Gov. Beshear said. The vast majority of both childhood and adult dental problems could be avoided through routine dental care and other preventive efforts. This unique program and partnership will truly expand dental hygiene and help counter oral disease as a major health risk for our people. One of the reasons why access to dental care has been traditionally low in our region is the sheer fact that we have shipped our talent out for education, with very little incentive to return home to practice dentistry, said Congressman Rogers. This program will help address the outmigration of our talented young Eastern Kentuckians and serves as another step to improving dental healthcare for our people. The University of Kentucky is deeply invested in improving the health of eastern Kentucky our work and strategic priorities are focused on transforming those we serve and answering Kentucky questions,said UK PresidentEliCapilouto.The Appalachian Dental Loan Forgiveness Program allows Kentuckys leading dental education programs to put more practitioners on the front lines and improve the oral health of our Appalachian region. This loan repayment program fits within our mission at the University of Louisville to enhance the lives of Kentuckians, said UofL President James Ramsey. This program will help UofL dental graduates establish practices in underserved, rural areas to ensure ALL people of the Commonwealth have access to oral health care. The announcement today was made in conjunction with the Shaping Our Appalachian Region or SOAR Executive Board meeting at the Jackson Energy Cooperative in McKee. According to the American Dental Association (ADA), dentists completing dental school now come out with a debt of around $280,000. With that in mind, the Kentucky Department of Public Health (DPH) worked with staff at the University of Kentucky and University of Louisville colleges of dentistry to develop a loan forgiveness program as an incentive to attract more providers to eastern Kentucky. DPH is funding the program, and the universities will offer awardees a $50,000 up front payment and $50,000 at the end of the first two-year award cycle. Eastern Kentucky counties as defined by the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) will be the designated location for the program. Additionally, priority will be given to dental students from eastern Kentucky wishing to return to practice in the designated geographic area. Eligible candidates include someone who is establishing or joining a new private practice, or purchasing an existing practice in an ARC distressed county. The original intent of the program is to recruit current graduates. Recent graduates are also eligible. Many of our UK and UofL dental graduates from the Appalachian counties want to return home to practice but high levels of student debt complicate their decisions about starting a practice in rural Kentucky, said M. Raynor Mullins, associate director of the Kentucky Oral Health Research Network. This new program will help a new cohort of dental graduates return home to serve and realize their dreams. Clearly, one of the greatest obstacles that are evolving in oral health care is that the cost of education has escalated to the point that student debt in some instances is in excess of $300,000, said John Sauk, dean of the University of Louisville School of Dentistry. Such economic burdens are limiting many individuals in their choice of where and how to practice. Consequently, going home to serve the community in which they grew up is often not a feasible economic option. The dental loan repayment program that the governor is announcing today will significantly enhance the opportunity for our young highly trained dentists to establish or join a rural practice and ensure oral health care manpower for rural Kentucky. I personally thank Gov. Beshear for his vision and commitment to oral health within the Commonwealth. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, Kentucky ranks 41st in annual dental visits; 45th in the percentage of children with untreated dental decay; and 47th in the percentage of adults 65 and older missing six or more teeth. Oral disease is a major health risk for Kentuckians of all ages particularly our children, said Cabinet for Health and Family Services Secretary Audrey Tayse Haynes. These problems are even more pronounced in many of our Appalachian counties where access to care is limited, With this new program to recruit providers along with other initiatives to increase access to care and provide clinical services like screenings and varnish treatments we have reasons to be optimistic about fixing the problems plaguing Kentuckians health. As part of his statewide health initiative, kyhealthnow, Gov. Beshear identified oral health as one of the seven target areas for improvement. Specifically, the program aims to reduce the percentage of children with untreated dental decay by 25 percent and increase adult dental visits by 10 percent by the year 2019. In fact, Gov. Beshear created the Smiling Schools initiative in 2011 to provide a protective tooth varnish treatment for elementary-age children in Appalachia during the 2011-2012 school year. The Governor is looking to provide another round of varnishing this school year, as well as expand the number of counties participating in this years initiative. His office hopes to make this announcement in the coming weeks. ####
07.20.2015	Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, co-chairs of SOAR, announced a groundbreaking date for the high-speed, high-capacity broadband project, KentuckyWired (also known as the Super I-way) that will bring access to every county in the Commonwealth upon completion. Plans are underway for a celebration Aug. 31, 2015, with further details coming soon. The broadband initiative is one of the most significant aspects of SOAR (Shaping Our Appalachian Region). Once completed, Kentuckys network will be one of the fastest, highest-capacity networks in the nation. “We’re excited to move another step closer to connecting with the global marketplace,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “This monumental project has the capacity to change the trajectory of the region, and we are preparing for the new opportunities that lie ahead.” Arnett also introduced two new Advisory Council members to the board, Dr. William Hacker and Douglas Jones. Dr. Hacker, a Corbin native, is a former commissioner for public health and longtime leader in health care education. Jones, of Hazard, owns Rental Pro with locations in Pikeville, London, Hazard and Somerset. “We welcome the expertise and insight of Dr. Hacker and Mr. Jones to help shape the future of our region,” said Congressman Rogers. “SOAR is moving into an exciting phase as we take another step forward with broadband implementation and work to attract more jobs and opportunities to the region.” Todays board meeting comes on the heels of the second-annual SOAR summit in Pikeville in May when more than 1,300 individuals developed and implemented strategies for regional growth and development, using goals outlined in SOARs first year. The co-chairs thanked the many businesses and organizations that have joined SOAR as corporate sponsors for investing in the people and economy of eastern Kentucky. SOAR Presenting Partners include the University of Kentucky, University of Louisville and KentuckyOne Health. Founding Partners include Aetna, Baptist Health, Booth Energy, Forcht Bank, Kentucky Community and Technical College System, Passport Health Plan and Pikeville Medical Center. East Kentucky Partners include Community Trust Bank, Eastern Kentucky University, VanAntwerp Attorneys and Walters Automotive. The co-chairs also applauded the boards progress in forming ongoing partnerships to propel eastern Kentucky forward in education, tourism, workforce, economic development and health care. With inspiration from SOAR, several entities across the region have applied for funding support through the new federal Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and Economic Revitalization (POWER) grants. The grants are designed to assist communities negatively impacted by the downturn of the coal industry, through projects focused on economic development. “I was proud to write a letter of support for the POWER grant applications sent in last week,” Gov. Beshear said. “We have had multiple groups apply for grants to assist the region in various ways to help revitalize eastern Kentucky. This is a great opportunity to bring additional resources to the region to expand the capability of our dark fiber from the middle mile all the way into homes and businesses, retrain workers and provide job opportunities.” Four federal agencies the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Department of Labor, the Economic Development Administration and the Small Business Administration set aside a portion of their funding this year for the POWER grants. Since May, several announcements have taken place under the SOAR umbrella. Just last week, the state awarded two contracts for the final phases of the Dawkins Line Rail Trail in eastern Kentucky soon to be the longest trail of its kind in the Commonwealth. Lieutenant Governor Crit Luallen and Congressman Rogers announced in June a special 1 percent financing program to make buying a home more affordable for residents in the 54-county SOAR region. Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers announced in late May that EOS USA, a leading provider of customer care and accounts receivables management services, plans to open an operation in Somerset and hire 150 Kentuckians. Kentucky received more than $3.7 million in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) for several programs, including Teach for America-Kentucky in Hazard, Operation Unite in Prestonsburg and PartnerCorps STEM in Berea. Earlier today, the co-chairs joined education and local officials in Manchester to announce the first phase of the SOAR STEM Initiative to create opportunities for teachers in eastern Kentucky through National Board Certification. Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers also joined public health and university officials in McKee to announce a new dentist recruitment program aimed at promoting sustained oral health and well-being in eastern Kentucky. During the board meeting, members voted to award the SOAR Communications contract to C2 Strategic Communications, of Louisville, to help promote eastern Kentucky through SOAR. The Executive Board had a moment of silence in memory of those who lost their lives during the devastating flash flood in Johnson County last week. Gov. Beshear asked Lt. Gov. Luallen to survey the damage Wednesday; Congressman Rogers visited with flood victims, emergency responders and volunteers in the area on Friday. "At every turn, I heard of folks risking their lives, volunteering hours on end and donating vital supplies for their neighbors," said Congressman Rogers as he shared details of his visit to Johnson County. "Its that same spirit of determination that gives us hope for eastern Kentucky through every challenge we face. Together, we will overcome." "We need to be mindful that recovery will be an ongoing process," Gov. Beshear said. "But I have to say I was not surprised to read about the heroic efforts of many people. Thats what Kentuckians do: We look out for our friends, family and neighbors. And the resiliency of our people continues to amaze me. Tragedies like this remind all of us of our bottom-line goal, and that is to help our families survive whatever challenges are thrown at them, whether theyre weather-related or caused by economic storms." ####
07.20.2015	Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, co-chairs of SOAR – Shaping Our Appalachian Region, joined educators from 22 eastern Kentucky school districts today at Clay County High School to help kick-off an education initiative aimed at building a STEM-based (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) workforce by creating new opportunities for teachers through National Board Certification. Morehead State University has partnered with the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), Council on Postsecondary Education, University of Pikeville, Department for Local Government and Touchstone Energy Cooperatives to provide 64 teachers in 22 of the highest unemployment, highest poverty SOAR counties with National Board Teaching Certification (NBTC). The selected teachers started the three-year program earlier this month. "National Board Certification of teachers is the critical first link in the chain of creating an environment where eastern Kentucky students can get a high-quality STEM-based education that leads to higher-wage jobs," said Anthony "Tony" Campbell, president and CEO of East Kentucky Power Cooperative. Along with obtaining the certification, teachers will receive a master’s degree with an emphasis on leadership at regional teaching centers close to their homes, plus rank change and salary increase, all provided at no cost to them or their school districts. "This is where the rubber meets the road for the mission of SOAR – preparing our teachers and students for new opportunities through advanced, high-tech education in the classroom," said Congressman Rogers. "It’s truly the first step to developing a skilled workforce pipeline that can improve our region’s portfolio for entrepreneurs and job creators." Nationwide, STEM jobs are growing 1.7 times faster than non-STEM jobs, according to the Department of Commerce. "To accelerate our economic momentum and to make it sustainable long term, especially in eastern Kentucky, we realize we must build a workforce that can compete in the global economy," Gov. Beshear said. "This STEM-based initiative will strengthen one of our greatest assets, our teachers, who will empower our students and better prepare them for a complex world. I want to thank all our partners with this innovative program for working together to make Kentucky’s education system a national model." Gov. Beshear invested $100,000 in funding for the initial phase of the project through the ARC and he is recommending $370,000 for the second phase. The second phase of the initiative will bring Project Lead The Way curriculum to schools in the SOAR region. Project Lead The Way is endorsed nationwide as the premier approach to STEM education and will dramatically change the way STEM education is provided in our schools. Paired with National Board Certified Teachers, this curriculum provides opportunities for the new age of manufacturing, biomedical and technology careers that will revitalize Kentucky’s Appalachian Region. "This initiative will be a great addition to the SOAR legacy in improving education and developing a K-16 future workforce across the region," said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. "Without question, this will help pave the road to a brighter future in Eastern Kentucky." For more information about SOAR, visit http://soar-ky.org. #####
07.16.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding a costly and unnecessary revised stream buffer zone rule proposed today by the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE). "This is another shameless attempt by the Obama Administration to regulate the coal industry out of business," said Rogers. "To date, OSMRE has refused to work with the 20 states that originally stepped up to collaborate in the development of this rule. Administration officials have disregarded the input provided by the States at every turn and wasted millions of taxpayer dollars in the process. The agency has failed to calculate the true impact to our economy and seriously underestimates the number of job losses we will see in the coalfields because of this revised rule. I will continue to fight back against these attacks on the citizens of Southern and Eastern Kentucky and their way of life, at the same time as we work to keep electricity rates low for people and businesses around the nation." In March, Congressman Rogers and West Virginia Congressman Evan Jenkins sent a joint letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, expressing concerns about OSMRE's mismanagement within the agency and a lack of transparency with coal producing states during the stream buffer zone rule-making process. "We are dismayed that this massive regulatory rewrite has occurred largely in secret, without any meaningful communication with state regulators who will ultimately be responsible for adopting and implementing these new federal standards," wrote the Congressmen. "The states have expressed serious concerns regarding the economic consequences of this massive rewrite. In fact, this rule threatens as many as 270,000 jobs across 22 states." The House FY16 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill includes a provision that would bar the agency from using any funds to implement a revised stream buffer zone rule, such as the one issued by OSMRE today. The bill has been approved by the full House Appropriations Committee, where Congressman Rogers serves as Chairman. An advanced copy of the proposed rule is available on the OSMRE website. The proposed rule, upon publication in the Federal Register, will be open for public comment for a period of 60 days. Written comments will be accepted through the U.S. Mail, hand-delivered and couriered comments at OSMRE headquarters in Washington, D.C., and electronically through http://www.regulations.gov. OSMRE will hold public hearings on the proposed Stream Protection Rule in five cities across the country beginning in September. Hearings will be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Lexington, Kentucky; Charleston, West Virginia; Denver, Colorado; and St. Louis, Missouri. The times and venues of the public hearings will be announced at a later date. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram. ###
07.14.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) stands ready to assist communities and families in Johnson and Rowan Counties where emergency officials say disastrous flash flooding has claimed at least two lives with several others missing, and damaged or destroyed dozens of homes, churches and businesses. "My heart is heavy for the people of Eastern Kentucky who have lost nearly everything in this devastating storm," said Congressman Rogers. "I applaud the Kentucky National Guard and local emergency responders for the fast and dedicated response as intense search and rescue efforts continue. As always, through the storm, volunteers have also jumped into action within a 50-mile radius to help their neighbors. We are resilient, because the people of Eastern Kentucky are always ready to help their neighbors in the darkest hour." Rogers stands ready to support any necessary requests for federal emergency response as state and local officials on the ground survey the amount of damage in Eastern Kentucky. On Tuesday morning, Rogers shared the heartbreaking story of flash flooding in Johnson County while urging members of the House Appropriations Committee to support the federal funding for FEMA emergency funding in the fiscal year 2016 appropriations bill for Homeland Security. "In one county alone, we had eleven people missing and one confirmed death with more rain on the way. So, to all of us in our home districts, the FEMA emergency funding is absolutely vital and one of the mainstays of this bill." The House Appropriations Committee passed the bill, which now heads to the full House. Red Cross Emergency Shelters Johnson County Shelter: Paintsville Recreation Center located at 232 Preston Street in Paintsville Rowan County Shelter: Carl Perkins Center located on Crayton Jackson Lane in Morehead Donations Monetary donations can be made to the Johnson County Fiscal Court to coordinate the relief efforts of the Long-Term Recovery Committee that was established as a result of the deadly tornadoes that swept across Eastern Kentucky in the Spring of 2012. Operation UNITE and Eastern Kentucky PRIDE will be collecting supplies for families impacted by the flash floods in Johnson County. The two non-profit organizations launched by Congressman Rogers will be collecting items through Thursday to be delivered to the Johnson Central High School distribution center. UNITE will be collecting items at its London office located at 350 C.A.P. Drive, beside the Kentucky National Guard Joint Readiness Center. For more information, call 1-866-OP-UNITE. PRIDE will be collecting items at its Somerset office located at the Center for Rural Development at 2292 South Highway 27. For more information, call 606-677-6150. Click here for UNITE and PRIDE's list of donation items being collected. ###
06.24.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) cosponsored and voted for the Ratepayer Protection Act (H.R. 2042), which passed the House on Wednesday afternoon. The legislation pushes back on the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Clean Power Plan, as part of its overreaching agenda to shut down existing coal-fired power plants in an effort to rapidly reduce green house gas emissions. "Once again, the EPA has failed to account for the total impact of its actions on American families. Without coal in our energy mix, families and businesses will pay higher electric bills for less reliable utilities," said Rogers. "The EPA's plan would force coal-producing states, like Kentucky, to meet unrealistic emission standards, locking another target on our jobs and our energy rates. This is yet another attempt by the EPA to override states' rights and force them to adopt policies that are not necessarily in their best interest." Under the proposed Clean Power Plan, the EPA sets distinct carbon emission limits for each state's electricity system to reach the agency's goal for a 30 percent reduction nationwide by the year 2030. Each state must then design a program within 13 months that would reduce emissions from existing coal-fired power plants in order to meet these strict standards. For states that don't submit a proposal in 2016, EPA leaders have threatened to force them into a one-size-fits-all plan, showing complete disregard for states where coal is essential to the economy. A recent analysis across 31 states estimated that between 2017 and 2031, electricity prices would be 15 percent higher on average under the Clean Power Plan. The costs of the plan would fall disproportionally on those most vulnerable, especially lower income families where energy costs represent a larger portion of their family budgets. In Kentucky, 92 percent of the state’s electricity is generated by coal, contributing more than $3.5 billion to the economy and employing 17,900 miners across the state. In response, the Ratepayer Protection Act would extend the date by which states would be required to comply with the EPA's rule, in order to allow for pending judicial review. The bill would also create a safe harbor for states to protect ratepayers. This legislation would allow a state to opt out of the Clean Power Plan if the state's governor determines there would be a significant adverse effect on retail, commercial or industrial ratepayers, or the reliability of the state's electricity system. States that choose to opt out would not have to submit an emission control proposal or implement a federal plan designed by the EPA. The legislation also delays implementation of the rule until all court challenges are finalized. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House Appropriations Committee for approving a $30 million pilot program to support economic development opportunities associated with the reclamation of Abandoned Mine Land (AML) sites in Appalachian coalfields. The pilot program is part of the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill and provides a refined alternative to the President's proposed and disorganized POWER + plan for abandoned mine lands. This new pilot program protects the AML Fund by directing additional dollars for reclamation projects that include community and economic development on these sites. “Over the last several years, we have seen countless attempts by President Obama and his Administration to burden our coal communities with job-killing regulations that add tremendous costs to any type of economic development they may pursue. In fact, the Administration has finally acknowledged the damaging effects of its regulatory onslaught in our region with the POWER+ proposal which accompanied this year’s budget request,” said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. “With this $30 million pilot program in the Interior appropriations bill, we have re-tooled and refined the President’s incomplete proposal. This is a thoughtful alternative to help hard-hit communities reinvigorate their economies by using abandoned mine land to develop hospitals, community centers and much more. Unlike the President, this committee realizes that these targeted economic development investments must be accompanied by regulatory relief – and I also support measures in this legislation to beat back on the very regulations that have put coal country in this predicament in the first place.” The pilot program allows participating states to utilize to accelerate the reclamation of abandoned mine lands to boost community redevelopment and economic growth, and the bill also includes provisions to stop various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations by the EPA. The bill reduces funding for EPA by $718 million – or 9 percent below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. Regulatory programs are cut $69 million below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $206 million below the budget request. In addition, staffing levels at the EPA are held to 15,000, the lowest level since 1989. These reductions will help the agency streamline operations, and focus its activities on core duties, rather than unnecessary regulatory expansion. The bill: prohibits the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants; prohibits funding for the EPA to implement or administer updates to existing ozone regulations; prohibits the EPA from making changes to the definition of “navigable waters” under the Clean Water Act; and prohibits the EPA from making changes to the definition of “fill material.” The legislation also includes a provision to stop potentially economically damaging changes to the “stream buffer rule.” The FY16 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill passed the House Appropriations Committee on Wednesday and now heads to the House floor for consideration. ####
06.10.2015	As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) has been leading the charge to get the federal appropriations process back to regular order. On Wednesday, the House of Representatives took up the sixth appropriations bill for fiscal year 2016 (FY16), marking the half-way point for the twelve appropriations bills that allocate discretionary spending. In each bill, Rogers advocates for responsible, transparent budgets that are good for the people of Kentucky. Most recently, the House passed the FY16 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) funding bill (H.R. 2577) on Tuesday and the FY16 Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill (H.R. 2578) last week. In total, the THUD bill reflects an allocation of $55.3 billion in discretionary spending, which is $9.7 billion below the President’s budget request. The funds are targeted toward transportation, infrastructure, and housing programs of national need and significance that have the biggest impact on Americans and communities across the country. “The bill will fund a wide range of federal programs that affect every citizen of every district of every state. From the transportation infrastructure that moves goods, people, and businesses around the country, to the housing options that help those in most need, the benefits of the programs in this bill are felt far and wide,” said Chairman Rogers. “We face tight budget restrictions, yet this bill provides adequate investments in critical infrastructure and much-relied-upon housing programs." The legislation provides critical funding for a number of federal programs, which are widely utilized in southern and eastern Kentucky, including: Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program (SHOP) - $10 million HOME Investment Partnership Program - $900 million Community Development Block Grants - $3 billion Section 4 Capacity Building - $40 million Separately, the CJS funding bill supports the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. The legislation contains $51.4 billion in total discretionary funding, at $661 million below the President’s request for these programs. The bill prioritizes funding for law enforcement, national security, science, and space exploration programs. "The legislation targets funding to programs that are vital to our economic development and national security, and that will help America remain the global leader in science research and innovation that helps to create jobs both now and in the future," said Chairman Rogers. “And, it makes these investments in a very responsible way – eliminating unnecessary or unneeded programs, and reducing funding for other, lower-priority agencies. This sort of smart budgeting will help improve the way our government operates and show that we can live within our means." The CJS bill continues funding for critical programs that have been successful in curbing drug abuse in Kentucky, as well as important job creation initiatives through the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), including: Economic Development EDA Public Works Funding - $100 million EDA Assistance to Coal Mining Communities - $15 million Fighting Drug Abuse DEA (COPS) Meth cleanup - $11 million Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program - $16 million Drug Courts - $46 million Veterans Treatment Courts - $15.5 million DEA Prescription Drug Diversion Control -- $371.5 million Five House Appropriations bills for fiscal year 2016 now await approval from the U.S. Senate. For a summary of the THUD bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394177 For a summary of the CJS bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394203 Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
06.04.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Acting Commissioner of the Social Security Administration, Carolyn Colvin, has lifted the suspension of payments for 900 disability benefit recipients in Eastern Kentucky until they receive a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge. Colvin made the decision in response to a meeting with Congressman Rogers on Wednesday afternoon. "I'm elated," said Congressman Rogers. "I asked the Commissioner to reverse course and she called this morning to tell me she is lifting the suspensions. We are all determined to bring fraud to a rapid conclusion and if it exists, it needs to be handled appropriately. But, this is the American way; you are innocent until you are proven guilty. Now our people will be able to pay bills and purchase the everyday items they need while they await the hearing they deserve." The Social Security Administration's suspensions coincide with a federal fraud investigation involving a Floyd County attorney and several physicians in the region. The agency sent out letters last week notifying 900 people that their disability benefits were being suspended immediately, while another 600 people learned their supplemental security income (SSI) would continue until their eligibility is re-examined. During the meeting, Commissioner Colvin confirmed the agency is also extending the 10-day window to submit medical records to 30 days. "Our people are in dire straights. Hundreds of folks have called my office over the last week, worried about their only source of income being cut off without notice," said Rogers. "I shared their stories with the Commissioner and she assured me that the agency is going to beef up efforts to expedite these cases." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ### SSA Statement Acting Commissioner of Social Security, Carolyn W. Colvin has decided to reinstate disability payments to individuals whose benefits were recently suspended because Social Security’s Inspector General determined there was reason to believe fraudulent medical evidence was supplied by several doctors in certain cases including Bradley Adkins, Ph.D., Srinivas Ammisetty, M.D., Frederic Huffnagle, M.D., or David P. Herr, D.O. In each case, Eric C. Conn or another individual from his law firm acted as the attorney representative. Benefits in these cases were suspended because the agency must redetermine these cases. Under the Social Security Act, the agency must redetermine an individual’s disability case when there is reason to believe fraud or similar fault was involved in that individual’s application for benefits. The law requires Social Security to disregard any evidence from one of the medical providers identified above when the information was submitted by representative Eric C. Conn or other representatives associated with Mr. Conn’s law office. Although the Acting Commissioner has decided to reinstate benefits, these beneficiaries must provide sufficient evidence to establish they meet the strict statutory definition of disability dating back to the original decision on their application for Social Security disability benefits. We remain fully committed to our responsibility to ensure that the public funds entrusted to us are properly expended, and take every measure to fight waste, fraud, and abuse in Social Security programs. Social Security has established a special toll-free phone number for affected beneficiaries to obtain additional information. That number is 1-866-397-4238, and will be staffed 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time Monday-Friday.
05.27.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement in opposition to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) final ruling that redefines Waters of the United States (WOTUS) to expand federal jurisdiction over private waterways. The rule would require that any dirt-moving activity -- from construction of roadways, to farming, to coal mining -- require additional oversight and approval by federal bureaucrats. "Despite overwhelming opposition from the American people and Congress, the Obama Administration is plowing forward with another job-killing environmental regulation," said Rogers. "The so-called WOTUS rule constitutes an incredible power-grab by unaccountable bureaucrats and will amount to more red-tape for Kentucky farmers, small business owners and entrepreneurs. The result will be slower job growth and local economic development when communities in Eastern Kentucky are already struggling under the weight of heavy-handed EPA regulations that have shuttered power plants and sent thousands of coal miners to the unemployment line." Rogers recently voted for two pieces of legislation to reverse and prohibit implementation of the rule before it was finalized: The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1732) requires the Secretary of the Army and the Administrator of the EPA to withdraw the rule within 30 days of enactment. It also holds the EPA and the U.S. Corps of Engineers accountable by requiring that when developing a new rule, the agencies must consider public comments, economic analysis, and must jointly consult with State and local officials about redefining WOTUS. The House Appropriations Committee's Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Bill prohibits any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act and restricts the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ####
05.23.2015	During ceremonies this morning on the Mill Springs Battlefield, U.S. Representative Harold. “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined the Civil War Trust and Mill Springs Battlefield Association to announce the preservation of two properties associated with the historic battleground. Protection of these two parcels, totaling 118 acres, will greatly expand the existing battlefield park and enable visitors to better understand the January 1862 battle. U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers speaking on the Mill Springs Battlefield, October 2013. “By preserving these hallowed grounds, we honor the memory of the young men in blue and gray who struggled here more than 150 years ago,” said Rep. Rogers. “I am privileged to be a part of this effort to set aside this picturesque and historic landscape in perpetuity.” Joining Rep. Rogers at the event were Civil War Trust president James Lighthizer, Trust chairman emeritus John L. Nau, III, and Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) president Dr. Bruce Burkett. Providing musical accompaniment for today’s festivities was the acclaimed Georgia-based Eighth Regiment Band, which performed the “Star Spangled Banner” and Civil War-era tunes on authentic 19th-century instruments. Protection of the two battlefield properties, known locally as the O’Laughlin-Plucknett and McGlothlin tracts, was the result of national fundraising campaigns undertaken by the Civil War Trust in 2014 and earlier this year. The two tracts, located on the historic Mill Springs Road but on different parts of the sprawling battleground, played important roles in both days of fighting at Mill Springs. The O’Laughlin-Plucknett Tract also includes the remains of entrenchments and hut sites constructed by the Confederate Army during its encampment prior to the battle. Acquisition of the two properties was funded through private donations, matched with federal grants from the American Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program. This program, funded through the Land and Water Conservation Fund and administered by the National Park Service’s American Battlefield Protection Program, has been used to preserve more than 24,000 acres of battlefield land in 17 states. In his role as chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Rogers has been a national champion for the American Battlefield Grants Program. “We could not have preserved these properties without the leadership of Chairman Rogers on the House Appropriations Committee,” noted Nau. “His support of the American Battlefield Grants Program has been instrumental to the preservation of hundreds of acres here at Mill Springs, and thousands more at historic sites throughout the country.” Lighthizer echoed Nau’s comments, emphasizing that Rep. Rogers understands the need to preserve battlefield sites like Mill Springs as lasting monuments to those who served in the armed forces — both during the Civil War as well as in other conflicts. According to Lighthizer, “It is fitting that we announce these preservation achievements on Memorial Day weekend, in the shadow of a national cemetery where so many brave Americans rest in eternal peace." In his remarks, Dr. Burkett stated that the unique working relationship between the Mill Springs Battlefield Association, Rep. Rogers, and the Civil War Trust has transformed the battlefield into a significant heritage tourism destination. “The protection of these 118 acres adds critically important battlefield land to the existing holdings on the Mill Springs Battlefield. We are looking forward to taking ownership of these properties and making them accessible to the public. Preservation of the 102.6-acre O’Laughlin-Plucknett Tract and the 15.4 acre McGlothlin Tract are not the only recent preservation achievements at Mill Springs. In December, legislation authored by Rep. Rogers was signed into law directing the National Park Service (NPS) to study the potential for adding the Mill Springs Battlefield to the national park system. The bill gives NPS three years to conduct its study and report back to the Congress. According to Rep. Rogers, “This pristine battlefield, carefully protected by generations of Kentuckians steeped in its history, will be an excellent addition to the National Park Service.” Currently, the Mill Springs Battlefield is managed as a private park by the nonprofit Mill Springs Battlefield Association. The decisive Union victory at Mill Springs, fought on January 19–20, 1862, was a heavy blow to Confederate plans for conquering the divided border state of Kentucky. The Federals lost 53 men killed and another 207 wounded; the Confederates lost 148 men killed, 308 wounded, and 95 missing — including its army commander, Gen. Zollicoffer. With the Confederate line pierced and its morale shaken, the Southern army withdrew into Tennessee following the battle. The Civil War Trust is America’s premier nonprofit battlefield preservation organization. Although primarily focused on the protection of Civil War battlefields, through its Campaign 1776 initiative, the Trust also seeks to save the battlefields connected to the Revolutionary War and War of 1812. To date, the Trust has preserved 41,000 acres of battlefield land in 20 states, including nearly 600 acres at Mill Springs. Learn more at www.civilwar.org. ### RELATED LINKS U.S. Represnetative Hal Rogers Mill Springs Battlefield Association Mill Springs National Park Study Bill (Rogers News Release) History of Battle of Mill Springs (Civil War Trust site)
05.13.2015	SOMERSET, KY - U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. The first place artwork, entitled “Eye on the Prize,” was drawn by Allissa Moe, a senior at Betsy Layne High School in Floyd County. Allissa created a picture of a blue-eyed bobcat utilizing white and blue colored pencils on black paper. Her art teacher is Shannon Shepherd. Allissa is the daughter of Thomas and Dorian Moe of Harold. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight talented artists from across the country, and I'm thrilled to have our region represented by such talented students,” said Rogers. “Allissa's artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know it came from eastern Kentucky.” Allissa's artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building for one year where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. She is also invited to attend a reception for winning artists from across the country on June 24, 2015 in Washington, D.C., and will receive two complimentary airline tickets to attend. The second place artwork, entitled "Celestial Euphoria" was painted by Hannah Engle, a junior at Pineville High School. Hannah used mixed media to express how beautiful the universe can be. Her art teacher is Rheagan Redmond-Young. Hannah is the daughter of Bill and Melissa Engle of Pineville. The third place artwork, entitled "Tribal Elephant" was drawn by Megan Stephens, a junior at McCreary Central High School. Megan used ink to create the intricate details of an elephant using tribal patterns and red tusks. Her art teacher is Rose Fey. Megan is the daughter of Tabitha Stephens of Strunk. The fourth place artwork, entitled "Tu Se Manques," meaning "you are missing from me" was drawn by Haley Younce, a senior at Magoffin County High School. Haley created this black and white pencil drawing from a photo of her mother as a child. Her art teacher is Andrea Parsons. Haley is the daughter of Blake and Wanda Younce of Salyersville. The fifth place artwork, entitled "The Petals" was created by Quinton Loudermilk, a senior at McCreary Central High School. Quinton used mixed media to create a vibrant multi-colored flower. His art teacher is also Rose Fey. His parents are Tony and Madonna Loudermilk of Whitley City. All of the artists will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for their participation. To view all of the entries from Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District, visit Rogers' Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/CongressmanHalRogers/posts/10153006918404086. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
05.13.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) voted to protect the sanctity of human life through the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36). Based on substantial evidence that unborn children feel pain at least by 20 weeks, this bill establishes federal legal protection for unborn children at 20 weeks, with exceptions to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest. The bill passed the House on Wednesday, May 12. "While surgeons guard against pain with anesthesia for fetal surgeries at 20 weeks, other unborn children of the same age are painfully destroyed," said Rogers, a long-time member of the Pro-Life Caucus. "As a staunch supporter of human life, I was proud to cosponsor this bill, which will protect those unborn children, while also empowering women and providing compassionate care for both the mother and baby." The bill also promotes counseling and treatment for mothers by requiring abortion providers to produce information explaining the born-alive provisions and notice of the woman's right to sue if those protections are not followed. The U.S. is only one of seven countries that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ####
05.13.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) cosponsored and voted for the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 1732) as the bill passed the full House on Tuesday, May 12. The bill reverses a rule proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in April 2014 to redefine the "Waters of the United States" through the Clean Water Act, expanding the agency's jurisdiction to include dry beds and other areas that are "seasonal or rain-dependent." "This bill will block one of the EPA's biggest efforts to gain power in the US, keeping this rogue agency from taking over every hollow and valley that may have a stream running through it when it rains," said Rogers. "The EPA's rule threatens jobs and our economy. It also restricts landowners and local governments from moving forward with important development projects, so H.R. 1732 is critical to reversing the costly impact of this rule across the country, putting the decisions regarding our nation's waters back into the hands of those who know best." The bill requires the Secretary of the Army and the Administrator of the EPA to withdraw the 2014 proposed rule to redefine "Waters of the United States" within 30 days of enactment. The legislation holds the EPA and the U.S. Corps of Engineers accountable by requiring that when developing a new rule, the agencies must consider public comments, economic analysis, and must jointly consult with State and local officials about redefining the term "waters of the United States." This will ensure that Kentucky farmers, miners, small business owners, and entrepreneurs have the ability to create jobs and grow the local economy. Rogers urged the Senate to move swiftly in reversing the EPA's proposed rule. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ####
05.12.2015	An estimated 1,300 people joined Governor Steve Beshear, Congressman Hal Rogers, and other federal, state, and local leaders for the second SOAR Strategy Summit in Pikeville today. The summit's goal is to develop and implement strategies for regional growth and development, using goals outlined in SOAR’s first year. “The fact that more than 1,300 people – plus untold numbers watching television and social media – made SOAR their top priority today, shows the interest and commitment to our work remains remarkably high,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “We had robust, thoughtful conversations today on many issues, trying to determine the best ways to collaborate for continued, meaningful progress.” The summit was originally scheduled for February, but was canceled due to a heavy snowstorm. Since SOAR launched in 2013, two major infrastructure improvements have begun – the long-awaited four-laning of the Mountain Parkway, and the construction of a statewide broadband network. Eastern Kentucky will be the first priority region for the broadband project. “Broadband is as important to our progress today as interstate highways were 60 years ago. It’s essential to economic growth and prosperity in eastern Kentucky,” said Congressman Rogers. “These SOAR Summits allow us to synthesize what is going on in other parts of the region, so we can implement successful ideas across county lines. Last year, we planned our work and now it’s time to work our plan.” “The SOAR has attracted national attention because of our unique structure. We put party politics aside and simply reached out to people who want eastern Kentucky to succeed. That grassroots model has proven incredibly powerful,” said Gov. Beshear. “We will keep leveraging that enthusiasm and vision to help eastern Kentucky reach a new and successful future.” Several federal representatives spoke about work happening in eastern Kentucky as a result of SOAR, including investments in workforce training, volunteer programs, and education. State legislators addressed the crowd on a variety of challenges and solutions related to the region. Breakout sessions included open discussions on engaging the next generation of leaders, local foods, computer coding, community health, and tourism as an economic driver. About SOAR The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Rep. Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December 2013. SOAR has helped the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ###
05.06.2015	U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers and U.S. Drug Czar Michael Botticelli spent two days meeting with leaders and students in eastern Kentucky who are diligently working to combat the prescription drug abuse epidemic in the region. On Tuesday morning, WYMT-TV News Director Steve Hensley moderated a roundtable hosted by Operation UNITE at Eastern Kentucky University's (EKU) Manchester Campus with leaders from law enforcement, treatment and education, as well as medical professionals and recovering addicts. Several leaders said signs of improvements are finally being seen in some of the hardest hit communities, like Clay and Harlan Counties. Clay County Coroner Danny Finley reported overdose deaths have dramatically dropped from 23 in 2011 down to two last year. "Declining overdose deaths is our ultimate score card," said Congressman Rogers. "Saving lives is our number one mission." In Harlan County, Kateena Haynes, Director of the Harlan Boys and Girls Club, said so many students had lost a parent in 2011 that the club had to add grief counseling and develop a protocol for children while funeral arrangements were made for their parents. "Within a six week period, 13 of our students lost a parent to a drug overdose in 2011," said Haynes. "This year, we haven't had any kids lose a parent, so it is getting better." Local leaders recommended more education for prescribers about narcotic addictions, an adolescent treatment facility in eastern Kentucky, more abuse deterrent painkillers, and more assistance for babies exposed to powerful opiates by drug addicted mothers. "Education is the commodity that can heal all the ills that we face in this battle," said Dr. Michael Benson, President of EKU. During a celebration luncheon with about 500 attendees, Director Botticelli, Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service and Congressman Rogers joined Nancy Hale, President/CEO of Operation UNITE to present ten UNITE Community Coalition awards for innovative volunteer efforts to educate students and community members across UNITE's 32-county service area. Award winning programs included new approaches to prevention and education through efforts like the Pike County's "2 Smart 4 Drugs" academic team tournament, Owsley County's mentoring programs in the schools, and Floyd County's parenting classes for local inmates. Botticelli and Rogers also met with law enforcement professionals in Hazard from federal, state and local agencies. They discussed changing trends in drug abuse, including a rise in heroin overdoses in Kentucky, as well as concerns about marijuana legalization movements in other parts of the country. "A recent survey showed teens are now more likely to smoke marijuana than tobacco," said Botticelli, referencing a National Institute on Drug Abuse study that also reported 60 percent of 12th-graders did not view regular marijuana use as harmful, and more than 12 percent of eighth-graders said they had used the drug in the past year. Rogers and Botticelli also presented the 2015 "I Am UNITE" Scholarships to 24 students in southern and eastern Kentucky. The scholarships are worth $1,500 for high school seniors who have volunteered for UNITE events or have persevered throughout high school despite drug abuse in their families. "You don't have to wait until you are an adult to become a leader - leadership is defined by your actions, regardless of age," said Rogers. "I can say with confidence, that every student here is a leader and you have a very bright future ahead." On Tuesday, Rogers, Botticelli and Spencer visited Rockcastle County High School to witness drug abuse prevention and education efforts in action. Operation UNITE demonstrated its "On the Move" Mobile Education Trailer and "On the Move" Simulated Impaired Driving Experience where students learn about the effects of addiction first-hand. Finally, Rogers and Botticelli attended the 28th Judicial Circuit Drug Court Graduation. Thirteen participants graduated from Lincoln, Pulaski and Rockcastle Counties. "We need to thank all of the employers who give addicts like us a second chance," said Botticelli who is recovering from alcoholism. "I encourage you to stay strong, stay focused and stay connected." "You have already overcome and experienced a remarkable change," said Rogers. "Today, you rise in this courtroom, not to face penalties, but to enjoy freedom and a new beginning outside these walls." "I Am UNITE" Scholarship Recipients · Addison Atkin from Rockcastle County High School · Cambriana Bobrowski from Owsley County High School · Kia Bolen from Magoffin County High School · Avery Bradshaw from Rockcastle County High School · Jordyn Bray from Somerset High School · Latasha Cornett from North Laurel High School · Reiley Crum from Johnson Central High School · Miranda Dugger from Corbin High School · Karilyn Harris from Boyd County High School · Melinda Hatfield from Belfry High School · Sydney Jones from Shelby Valley High School · Hanna Logan from Whitley County High School · Angelica Mayo from Corbin High School · Olivia Moore from Jackson Independent High School · Tanner Morris from Harlan Independent High School · Savanna Nunnelley from Pineville Independent High School · Tiffany Porter from West Carter High School · Steven Prater from Phelps High School · Austin Shrum from Knott County Central High School · Abigail Smallwood from Shelby Valley High School · April Smith from Owsley County High School · Mikayla Smith from North Laurel High School · Skylar Stacy from Wolfe County High School · Autumn Ward from Corbin High School UNITE Community Coalition Award Winners The Laurel County UNITE Coalition won the "Youth Activity Award" for its strong Hooked On Fishing-Not On Drugs program. The Owsley County Anti-Drug Council won the "Youth Mentoring Award" for its innovative mentoring program called "Engage," targeting middle school and high school students. The Rockcastle County UNITE Coalition won the "Community Partnership Award" for its strong, dedicated group of volunteers across the public and private sectors. The Champions UNITE McCreary County Coalition won the "Youth Empowerment Award" for its commitment to addressing substance abuse issues through youth and family programs. The Pulaski County UNITE Coalition won the "Above and Beyond Award" for volunteering countless hours for various community prevention and education efforts, including the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. The Boyd UNITE Champions Coalition won the "Volunteer Leadership Award" for its efforts to turn grief in to action by launching a strong coalition as a result of overdose deaths in the county. The Floyd County Citizens Against Drug Abuse Coalition won the "Recovery Outreach Award" for its activism for recovery programs over the last six years, including parenting classes for inmates at the Floyd County Detention Center. The Clay County UNITE Coalition won the "Project Innovation Award" for its innovative drug prevention and education efforts in the schools, including attendance rewards, a positive behavior program and several sports opportunities. The Knox County UNITE Coalition won the "Youth Service Award" for school programs that both mentor and educate students with sports and other fun programs. The UNITE PIKE Coalition won the "Community Outreach/Aftercare Award for its community partnerships and prevention efforts in the schools, including a "2 Smart 4 Drugs" academic tournament. ###
04.24.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) presented Anna Rogers, a junior at Somerset Christian School with the Congressional Award Gold Medal during an assembly with nearly two hundred middle and high school students. Anna earned the Gold Medal with 400 volunteer service hours, plus 400 combined hours of personal development and physical fitness achievements, as well as an expedition. She is only the third student from Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to earn the Gold Medal. "Anna exemplifies the cornerstones of the Congressional Award: service to others, initiative and achievement," said Congressman Rogers. "I am proud of her volunteer efforts to help underprivileged children in our region, as well as her ambitious personal development goals. She has worked hard for several years to earn this high honor and I hope other students in our region are inspired to participate in the Congressional Award program." Somerset Christian School now leads the medal count in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District with six medals, including bronze, silver and gold. The Congressional Award is open to all young people ages 14-23 in America. To earn the Award, young people must set and achieve goals in the four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Students can sign up online at http://congresssionalaward.org. Anna's volunteer efforts included making "no-sew" blankets for local underprivileged children, and collecting and delivering food and emergency supplies to victims of severe storm damage in Kentucky. To reach her personal development goals, she honed on her skills as an artist, practicing with different mediums for 20 minutes a day, five days a week. She also set high equestrian goals for her physical fitness efforts, eventually landing a D1 and D2 rating. Her expedition consisted of a trip to Cherokee, North Carolina to visit her father's birthplace where she learned about the World Festival of Native Americans. Anna Rogers is the daughter of Sean and Kimberly Rogers of Somerset, Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.17.2015	SOMERSET, Ky. - U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to submit artwork for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition by Friday, April 24, 2015. The winning artwork from Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District will be displayed inside the U.S. Capitol for one year, where more than three million people visit annually. Thousands of high school students participate all across the country and one winner is chosen from each congressional district. “Students still have time to submit their artwork to represent Kentucky's Fifth District,” said Rogers. “This competition is a great opportunity for students to gain access to scholarships and display their talents before millions of people who visit our Capitol building. I can't wait to see which piece will represent southern and eastern Kentucky this year." The top three district winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard district offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual awards ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. Last year, Reagan Smith submitted the winning artwork from Corbin High School, entitled "#Selfie #Uncentered". Reagan utilized watercolors to create her self-portrait. As the Fifth District winner, Reagan received a $3,000 art scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design, along with two free airline tickets to see her artwork displayed in Washington, D.C. Her art teacher was Brenda Daniel and Reagan is the daughter of Gwen Lickliter of Corbin, Kentucky. For competition guidelines, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by Friday, April 24, 2015. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county: Prestonsburg District Office (Boyd, Carter, Floyd, Elliott, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan Counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry counties) 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Remaining artwork should be picked up no later than June 1, 2015. Click here for an art submission checklist for the Congressional Art Competition. Click here to download the student release form. Click here to download the rules for submitting artwork. 2014 Winner, Reagan Smith from Corbin High School ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold 'Hal' Rogers (KY-05) voted for legislation that would create a fairer tax code and allow hard working Americans to keep more of their hard-earned money. Rogers voted for the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015 (H.R. 1105) and the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act of 2015 (H.R. 622). The House passed both bills on Thursday, sending them on to the Senate for consideration. "Hard-working Americans with small businesses and family farms have been punished far too long by the 40% death tax, forcing them to close family-owned businesses and parcel out family farms to satisfy the IRS," said Rogers. "We should encourage saving for future generations and driving for success, not reducing capital and breaking up family businesses." According to the Family Business Alliance, about 70% of family businesses don't survive to the next generation and only about 12% make it to the third generation. Additionally, according to a study by the Tax Foundation, repealing the death tax would increase U.S. capital stock by 2.2% and create nearly 140,000 jobs. Meanwhile and unfortunately, President Obama's proposed budget for fiscal year 2016 would effectively raise the death tax rate to 60% - the second highest in the world. The State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act of 2015 would also save Americans from doubling up on taxes by enacting a permanent deduction of State and local general sales taxes. A temporary provision allowing for itemized deductions of State and local sales tax when determining taxable income expired on January 1, 2015. "H.R. 622 will restore certainty and fairness for taxpayers, as well as faith in our economy," said Rogers. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
04.08.2015	ATLANTA - Seven perspectives. Two political parties. One mission. Representatives from both the U.S. House and Senate addressed nearly 1,400 attendees of the fourth National Rx Drug Abuse Summit Wednesday, April 8, to discuss current and planned legislation addressing what has become a national crisis. "This is an American issue," proclaimed U.S. Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia. "When you see Democrats and Republicans come together on an issue like this, I think that should give you some hope." Effective policy change is not always easy, but not impossible, to achieve, Manchin said, noting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's decision to reschedule Hydrocodone combination drugs in 2014. U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-5th) touched on two related priorities: implementation of mandatory prescriber education and continuing to improve state-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs). "Every state - except Missouri, I might add - currently has a PDMP that provides physicians with a critical glimpse at their patients' prescription history," Rogers said. "Over half of these states are sharing data with one another, thanks in large part to the leadership of the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy, and we are making impressive strides to more seamlessly integrate PDMP data into doctor workflow." "We still have a long way to go, but in the next few years PDMPs should absolutely become a part of the standard of care for anyone prescribing a prescription painkiller," Rogers said. As the only pharmacist in Congress, U.S. Representative Earl "Buddy" Carter (GA-1st), said he brings a unique perspective to the arena. "I've seen how (Rx pill addiction) ruins families and ruins careers," said Carter, who authored Georgia's prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) law. Carter wants to see PDMPs across the country be able to share information in real time and work seamlessly across state borders. "You don't want government in your medicine cabinet," Carter commented, "but the problem that we have is far greater than the intrusion." It is important for people to take a stand and to educate both physicians and the public, said U.S. Representative William R. "Bill" Keating (MA-9th). "One thing we can't wait until next year to do is deal with this issue," Keating said, calling the current crisis "a societal wrong-doing ... fueled by misinformation, ignorance and stigma." That includes making sure the medical community knows what is available. "We have to stop the mentality of 'opiates first'," Keating said. "We understand there is a need to deal with pain ... (but) doctor, you don't understand about pain. When you lose (a family member) that kind of pain doesn't go away." "The opposite of love is not hate, it is indifference," Keating said. "The power of the person is much stronger than the power of the pill." "For me, it's about that delicate balance between good medicine and good policy," commented Representative Evan Jenkins (WV-3rd). He said it was important to provide the right care, at the right place at the right time. U.S. Representative Katherine Clark (MA-5th) focused her remarks on the need to address Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome - a condition where babies are born with an opiate dependence from their mothers' drug addiction. "We have to do better by these children. We have to do better by their moms," Clark said. "We are looking at two people, not just one." Each of the legislators spoke about "the new prescription abuse problem" to face the country - legalizing marijuana for medical and/or recreational use - but none as passionately as U.S. Representative Andrew "Andy" Harris (MD-1st). As a "physician legislator," Dr. Harris said he was concerned about the "incrementalism of marijuana legislation," especially when there are no safeguards in place to protect children. "That's not the way we should deal with such a dangerous drug," Harris said, adding "marijuana is pretty clearly a gateway drug" that has not been shown to be safe or medically effective. He urged more research on marijuana and its components - "just like we do for other drugs." In his remarks, Rogers said he was pleased that the FDA had finalized its guidance on abuse-deterrent medications. "This is a huge step forward in my assessment," Rogers said. "It sends a strong message to (the drug) industry that it is a safe bet to make the requisite investments in these new, emerging technologies that make painkillers more difficult to abuse. It creates incentives for innovation - and I'm hopeful that somewhere out there is a young scientist with our silver bullet." The legislators announced four pieces of legislation that they are either currently sponsoring or intend to introduce related to prescription drug abuse: * Rx Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act - This act funds a grant program for states and nonprofit entities for consumer education about opioid abuse, including methadone abuse, and sets forth training requirements for practitioners. * FDA Accountability for Public Safety Act - This act would ensure that "expert voices are heard" on any review of opioid medications and make the FDA commissioner more responsible to Congress for new-drug approvals. This bill is in reaction to the recent approval of Zohodro despite overwhelming opposition by an FDA advisory panel. * Protecting Our Infants Act - This act would take proactive steps to deal with opiate dependency in newborns. * A yet-to-be-named act that would break down regulatory hurdles and licensing barriers for new programs and new methods of care for treating addiction. For more information, visit: http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. ###
04.08.2015	ATLANTA - The science of addiction and intervention became the focus of the third day of the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. Dr. Tom Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), partnered as keynote speakers for an innovative session entitled, "What's Working and Where Are We Going?" "Misuse of prescription opioid medications led to more than 16,000 overdose deaths in 2013," said Dr. Volkow. "NIDA supports a variety of science based solutions, including the development of abuse-resistant pain medications, better medications to treat opioid dependence, and easier access to the overdose prevention drug Naloxone." Dr. Melissa Cheeseman Rogers, an Emergency Room Physician from St. Joseph Hospital in Kentucky, moderated an open question-and-answer session with Dr. Volkow and Dr. Frieden for attendees. They discussed successful interventions and improvements that can be made in prevention and education. "States such as Florida have seen fewer overdoses and deaths by getting public health, law enforcement, and communities to work together to focus on safe prescribing practices; track trends in prescriptions; and increase access to quality treatment programs," said Dr. Frieden. "Success is possible - the key now is to figure out and scale up what works." Dr. Frieden and Dr. Volkow commended Operation UNITE and U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) for working diligently to advance efforts to help curb drug abuse. "Congressman Rogers' leadership in addressing prescription drug overdose has brought together diverse partners to reverse our nation's prescription drug overdose epidemic," said Dr. Frieden. Operation UNITE teamed up with the CDC and other partners to launch a social media campaign during the Rx Summit to raise awareness about the human toll of prescription drug abuse. Dr. Frieden and Congressman Rogers were two of the first participants to describe the epidemic in six words to challenge assumptions about prescribed pain killers and patient safety. Social media activity is tagged #RXProblem and has already generated more than 10,000 hits in the first three days. The National Rx Drug Abuse Summit continues through Thursday, April 9. ####
04.07.2015	ATLANTA, Ga.- The 2015 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit kicked off with a record-breaking crowd of 1,400 attendees from 49 states and Canada. Operation UNITE, a small non-profit organization from southern and eastern Kentucky, is hosting the four-day summit in Atlanta. It has grown to become the largest collaboration of professionals in the U.S. focused on a multi-faceted approach to the drug abuse epidemic across the country. U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, commended attendees for turning the conference into a movement for life-saving solutions. "The Rx Summit has been a clear driving force for life-saving action and the results over the last four years have been overwhelming," said Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "Attendees have pushed for prescription drug monitoring system implementation and enhancements in their home states; they've pushed for more effective FDA policies; and advocated for state level legislation to beat back on prescription drug abuse." The drug abuse epidemic continues to take a toll on American lives. According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), someone dies from a drug overdose every 12 minutes in the U.S. "We must continue our urgent work to reduce prescription opioid misuse, expand access to evidence-based treatment, reduce stigma around substance use disorders, and engage the medical establishment in preventing and treating addiction," said Michael Botticelli, Director of the ONDCP. "Chairman Rogers’ leadership on prescription drug abuse issues continues to be essential to our continued progress." The Honorable Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), said one of the agency's top priorities is combating opioid abuse. "We believe that through evidence-informed interventions and bipartisan solutions we can work to end opioid drug-related dependence and overdose," said Secretary Burwell. "I want to thank Chairman Rogers for all of his work both legislatively and through Operation UNITE. Because of his crucial leadership, the issues we’re talking about today have gained much needed attention and we are making progress." The Rx Summit brings together professionals from every spectrum, including medical research, which continues to reveal more information about addiction in the human body. Keynote speaker Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), has served as an advocate in explaining the science of addiction. “Biomedical science is vital to our nation’s response to the epidemic of prescription drug abuse," said Dr. Collins. "NIH-supported research is providing the foundation for that response by illuminating the biology of opioid addiction through the BRAIN initiative and other programs, while our new Precision Medicine Initiative will help speed the translation of such discoveries into more individualized strategies for treatment and prevention.” In his first week as Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Dr. Stephen Ostroff said he is committed to being a part of the national effort to curb drug abuse. “The abuse of prescription drugs is a tragic and complex problem," said Dr. Ostroff. "We’re attacking it on many fronts. We are pushing hard to develop the science and tools that are needed to win this battle. And, as always, it is the science that will drive our decisions – and our progress. What we are seeing in abuse deterrence formulations is a promising sign. It is one sign, of many, that suggests our efforts are starting to pay dividends.” On Monday night, Oklahoma Governor Mary C. Fallin set the tone for the summit that continues through April 9, reminding attendees that prescription drug abuse is about "real stories, real people and real challenges." For more information, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook.
03.31.2015	ATLANTA, Ga. - U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (R-KY) will join U.S. Senator Joseph "Joe" Manchin (D-WV) and five colleagues from the U.S. House of Representatives for a Congressional forum on drug abuse at the 2015 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on Wednesday, April 8, 2015 at 9:30 a.m. at the Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel in Atlanta, Georgia. U.S. Representatives participating in the bi-partisan forum also include, Congressman Earl "Buddy" Carter (R-GA), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), Congressman Andrew "Andy" Harris, MD (R-MD), Congressman Evan Jenkins, JD (R-WV), and Congressman William "Bill" Keating (D-MA). The National Rx Drug Abuse Summit is hosted by Operation UNITE, a small non-profit organization launched by Congressman Rogers in 2003 to address the scourge of prescription drug abuse in his rural district covering southern and eastern Kentucky. This is the fourth consecutive year that UNITE has led the largest national collaboration of leaders in effort to create a greater impact on the nation's prescription drug abuse epidemic. Nearly 1,400 attendees are registered for the four-day summit scheduled for April 6-9. "Every day in the U.S., 120 people die from a drug overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The sense of urgency for federal, state and local leaders to be more involved in the issue, can't be overstated," said Congressman Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "I'm honored to have so many of my colleagues at the table at the Rx Summit, dedicating critical time to raise awareness and lead this national discussion in effort to save lives from the crippling impact of addiction." For the first time, this bi-partisan forum is comprised of members of both U.S. Chambers who are working to raise awareness of abuse and bring innovative and effective policy solutions to Congress. They will address recent regulatory changes, as well as their legislative priorities for the 114th Congress. “I am truly looking forward to participating in this year’s National Prescription Drug Abuse Summit. The prescription drug abuse epidemic is rampant across every state in this nation," said Sen. Manchin. "As Governor and as United States Senator, I’ve seen for far too long the devastating effects that these drugs have had on our communities and our families. I am wholly devoted to diligently fighting to stem the tide on prescription drug abuse, and I so am grateful for all the policymakers, community leaders, medical professionals, law enforcement officials and leading experts who will be in attendance at this great conference. Together, we will underscore our commitment to tackling substance abuse to better our families, our communities and our country.” Forum participants will also take questions from attendees to spur additional conversation for solutions at the federal level. For more information about the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. You can also follow the Rx Summit on Facebook and Twitter. MEDIA NOTE: Following the forum, federal leaders will participate in a media availability on-site. For credentials and more information, contact Danielle Smoot at 606-854-6867. ####
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- ?U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Megan O'Donnell Bell as his new Chief of Staff in Washington, D.C. For the past four years, Bell served as Rogers' chief liaison to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Legislative Director, overseeing all aspects of the congressman's legislative operation. "Megan is a rising leader on Capitol Hill, commandeering complex legislative and policy issues from appropriations to homeland security," said Rogers. "This hard-earned promotion will come as no surprise to those who have worked with Megan. She is diligent in her work and research efforts, and has developed a deep compassion for the people of Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District." Since joining Rogers' staff in 2007, Bell has handled a diverse portfolio, including defense and homeland security, foreign policy, transportation, energy and justice issues. She has also served as the lead staffer for the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Prior to serving the congressman, Bell worked in government affairs and communications at the Arlington-based National Telecommunications Cooperative Association, during which time she managed the association's grassroots operation and political action committee. Bell is a Cum Laude graduate of Georgetown University and is currently pursuing her Juris Doctor at Georgetown University Law Center. She and her husband, Jason, reside in Alexandria, Virginia. Bell replaces David Thomas who is transitioning to the private sector. She will work in partnership with Rogers' District Director Karen Kelly in Somerset, Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
03.18.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) continued questions on the Obama Administration's anti-coal policies and job-killing regulations this week on Capitol Hill. In a joint-letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, Rogers and U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins (WV-03) expressed concerns about the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement's (OSM) efforts to develop a sweeping and unnecessary revised stream buffer zone rule. The letter sites mismanagement within the agency and a lack of transparency with coal producing states during the stream buffer zone rulemaking process. "We are dismayed that this massive regulatory rewrite has occurred largely in secret, without any meaningful communication with state regulators who will ultimately be responsible for adopting and implementing these new federal standards," write the Congressmen. "The states have expressed serious concerns regarding the economic consequences of this massive rewrite. In fact, this rule threatens as many as 270,000 jobs across 22 states." In a budget hearing with U.S. Department of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Chairman Rogers scolded the agency's proposal for a 28% increase in its budget for fiscal year 2016, and specifically questioned its new Green Climate Fund. "I have serious concerns about the Administration's position on coal-fired power generation in developing countries. The President's politically driven anti-coal, environmental policies have wreaked havoc domestically, sending tens of thousands of hard-working Americans to the unemployment lines and casting into question our country's long-term energy security," said Rogers. "Coal exports are the one bright spot for the thousands of mining families who are facing disastrous economic conditions in my district." World energy demand continues to rise with 90% of increased energy demand driven by the needs of developing countries. China and India alone will account for more than 50% of the total increase between now and 2030, and these countries together account for 9% and 5% of U.S. coal exports respectively. Rogers questioned how the Administration expects to meet demands without coal being part of the equation for low-cost energy. "In essence, you've said, 'We can't mine coal, we can't burn coal, and now we are going to eliminate the international markets for us to export coal,'" said Rogers. During a witness hearing before the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, Rogers welcomed Kentucky coal operator, Charles Baird to testify about the crippling downturn of the coal industry in Kentucky's Appalachian region. "I am proud of the the hard working spirit that resides in my District, and that Mr. Baird represents," said Rogers. "I am encouraged by their desire to provide this country with an energy source that keeps food on the table, utility bills low, and energy independence attainable." As the Chairman of Coal Operators and Associates, Baird asked the Subcommittee to investigate the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) agenda and its coordination with the environmental advocacy industry. "I've not heard one EPA official talk about the cumulative impacts on the economy, the loss of wages on these families, ir the negative impacts to indirect beneficiaries of that income, such as local businesses, schools and local governments," said Baird. "We need to put people back to work in real jobs with real wages and restraining the EPA will be a significant step in doing so." Click here to read Congressmen Rogers' and Jenkins' joint letter to Secretary Jewell. Click here to watch the budget hearing with Secretary Lew. (NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 18:00 and questions begin at 38:40.) Click here to watch Charles Baird's testimony to the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Rogers (left) introduces Charles Baird (right) to speak to the Subcommittee on Interior ####
03.18.2015	JACKSON, Ky. - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in schools and small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers' Field Representative Nick Camic recently delivered approximately 100 books to the Breathitt County Public Library in Jackson. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our schools and public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Camic presented Library Director Stephen D. Bowling with several boxes of books. "We cannot thank Congressman Rogers and his staff enough for their generous support of the Breathitt County Public Library," said Bowling. "Congressman Rogers continues to support local, community libraries through his efforts in Washington and here on Main Street. We appreciate all that he does to help promote children's literacy and continued adult learning." So far, Rogers has collected books for twelve small public libraries and schools in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. Rogers' Field Rep. Nick Camic Delivers Books to Breathitt County Public Library Left to Right: Nick Camic, Janie Oliver, Susan Pugh, Misty Combs and James T. Combs ####
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD) during a budget hearing on Wednesday for supporting the bipartisan initiative SOAR - Shaping Our Appalachian Region. In response to a devastating downturn in the Appalachian coal industry, Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear (D-KY) launched the non-profit organization in 2013 to help diversify the economy, create jobs and enhance innovative opportunities in Kentucky's Appalachian region. "From the beginning of the SOAR initiative, USDA Rural Development has stepped up to the plate and served as a major partner," said Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "I truly appreciate your engagement with SOAR and I look forward to working with you as we strive to strengthen and grow the economy in that region." Rogers also urged USDA-RD to maintain steady funding for the agency's Mutual and Self Help Housing program that provides low-income families with a way to build their own homes. The agency proposed a nearly $18 million cut to the program for 2016. Similar cuts to the program have been rejected by Congress in recent years. "This year, the fifty thousandth family will have utilized the program to complete their home," said Rogers. "One constituent of mine, a single woman with a son, wanted a safe environment for her son. She worked nights and weekends so she could build her own home. Now that she's moved in, her son is doing much better in school, they have a nice home in which they can call their own. Without the Self Help Housing program allowing her to use her own sweat equity, she wouldn't have been able to afford that new home. Those are victories." Rogers also expressed his disappointment in the President's proposal to reduce funding by $162 million in Business and Industry Loan Authorization. The program guarantees loans for rural businesses, which allows private lenders to provide more affordable financing in rural areas. "This program opens doors for the creation of new jobs through new company development and small business expansion, and is more important than ever in my region because of the struggling economy," said Rogers. "Rural areas need more, not less, of this type of program to encourage small businesses to expand and create more jobs." Click here to watch the USDA-RD budget hearing for fiscal year 2016. (NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 12:00 and questioning begins at 22:00) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
03.16.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Nashville District (Corps) recently awarded a contract for continued operations at the Mill Springs Mill in Monticello. Rogers encouraged the Corps, as the current steward of the landmark, to find sufficient funds within its budget to ensure that grist mill operations were restored for every weekend of the 2015 tourism season. "The historic Mill Springs Grist Mill serves as a rich part of our Kentucky heritage and draws some 30,000 tourists to Wayne County each year, where folks also learn about the historic battle at Mill Springs," said Rogers. "I am pleased that the grist mill will be fully operational this season, and I encourage tourists and residents of southern Kentucky alike to spend a day at this remarkable site." The Mill Springs Grist Mill will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m./EST on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays beginning May 23, 2015 and will continue its seasonal operation through September 7, 2015. Guided tours will be provided every half hour, with corn grinding demonstrations at 2:00 p.m. each day. The Mill Springs Grist Mill was constructed in 1877 and is listed on the national register of historic places. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
03.11.2015	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in schools and small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers' Field Representative Adam Rice recently delivered approximately 100 books to the Rocky J. Adkins Public Library in Elliott County. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "This is a simple way to help our schools and public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rice presented the books to Jasmyne Combs, who serves as Director of the library. "We have a very small annual budget and rely heavily on donations to stay operational," said Combs. "We are very thankful for this donation and the support of Congressman Rogers." So far, Rogers has collected books for eleven small public libraries and schools in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. Rogers' Field Rep. Adam Rice presents surplus books from the Library of Congress to Rocky J. Adkins Elliott County Public Library Director Jasmyne Combs ####
03.10.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Operation UNITE will put the drug abuse issue back in the national spotlight during the 2015 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia on April 6-9, 2015. More than 1,000 people from across the U.S. have already registered for the event featuring national leaders at the Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel in downtown Atlanta. "Over the last 12 years, UNITE's holistic approach to the drug abuse epidemic has evolved into a national model, allowing this small, non-profit organization in Kentucky to engage in the discussion with national leaders and help save lives across the country," said Rogers who helped launch UNITE in 2003. "This is the fourth consecutive year for the Summit and it's shaping up to be another impressive week that will influence policy makers, community leaders and families searching for help." Keynote speakers will include the Hon. Sylvia Matthews Burwell, Secretary of the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services; Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health; Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Dr. Stephen Ostroff, Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; Michael Botticelli, Director of the White House Office of Drug Control Policy; Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Instute on Drug Abuse; Gen. Barry McCaffrey, National Security/Terrorism Analyst; U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV); U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY); U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA); U.S. Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD); U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV); and former U.S. Rep. Patrick Kennedy, Co-Founder of One Mind and Founder of the Kennedy Forum. The Summit also will feature breakout sessions highlighting trending topics like heroin, marijuana, Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome, and Hepatitis C among abusers who inject drugs. For more information about the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. You can also follow the Rx Summit on Facebook and Twitter. ####
03.04.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) defended military veterans this week on Capitol Hill during budget hearings with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert A. McDonald and Department of Defense (DoD) Secretary Ashton Carter, as well as through his support for two veterans-related bills. On Monday, the House passed under suspension the Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act (H.R. 294) and a bill to rescind bonuses from underperforming VA employees (H.R. 280). Rogers commended Secretary McDonald for the actions he has taken to curtail mismanagement and negligence in the VA, but pushed for continued efforts to digitize medical records and to ensure that eligible veterans can join the newly established Veterans Choice Program with ease. "Many veterans who should qualify for the Choice Program have been denied access by the VA. These veterans either live more than 40 miles from a VA facility or must drive distances in excess of 40 miles to reach one," said Chairman Rogers. "This Department must take steps to ensure that the '40 mile rule' and qualifying exceptions are applied evenly and in a timely manner." Rogers also applauded the work of Veterans Treatment Courts and improved action to prevent prescription drug abuse among veterans. During a budget hearing with the DoD on Wednesday, Rogers also questioned Secretary Ashton B. Carter about plans for authorized use of military force relating to ISIS and integrating health records with the VA. The House also passed H.R. 294, which expands veterans' healthcare choices by allowing eligible veterans to receive long-term, VA-paid nursing home health services for three years, beginning October 1, 2015. Medical foster home care is a long-term care alternative for veterans who prefer a smaller, more home-like and familial care setting than a traditional nursing home. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the bill would result in cost savings of $248 million over the next five years. H.R. 280 also passed the House on Monday. This legislation aims to curtail mismanagement and negligence at VA facilities by authorizing the Secretary of the VA to recoup more than $380,000 in cash bonuses paid to top executives at 38 hospitals who are under investigation for falsifying wait times for medical care. Currently, the VA has no authority to recoup bonuses for its employees, even if they were awarded under false pretenses. Click here to watch Rogers' comments to Secretary McDonald. (Comments begin at 17:00) Click here to watch Rogers' questions for Secretary Carter. (Questions begin at 42:36) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to participate in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. Each year, the U.S. House of Representatives holds an annual art competition titled "An Artistic Discovery" for high school students to showcase their talent and represent their congressional districts by displaying their artwork inside the U.S. Capitol for one year, where more than three million people visit annually. Thousands of high school students participate all across the country and one winner is chosen from each congressional district. “I'm always eager to see the impressive works of art that are submitted by our students in southern and eastern Kentucky for the Congressional Art Competition,” said Rogers. “I enjoy walking through the Cannon Tunnel where all of the winning artwork is displayed from each state, and I take great pride in showing off the talent from the Fifth District of Kentucky." The top three district winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard district offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual awards ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. Last year, Reagan Smith submitted the winning artwork from Corbin High School, entitled "#Selfie #Uncentered". Reagan utilized watercolors to create her self-portrait. As the Fifth District winner, Reagan received a $3,000 art scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design, along with two free airline tickets to see her artwork displayed in Washington, D.C. Her art teacher was Brenda Daniel and Reagan is the daughter of Gwen Lickliter of Corbin, Kentucky. For competition guidelines, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by Friday, April 24, 2015. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county: Prestonsburg District Office (Boyd, Carter, Floyd, Elliott, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan Counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry counties) 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Remaining artwork should be picked up no later than June 1, 2015. Click here for an art submission checklist for the Congressional Art Competition. Click here to download the student release form. Click here to download the rules for submitting artwork. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
03.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's address to Congress today. “It is an honor to hear from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today, as he shares his critical and unique perspective about the threat posed by a nuclear-capable Iran to the United States and our allies. "The American people have great interest in maintaining the strongest support possible for one of our most trusted partners in the Middle East, as we continue to defend our countries against the growing threat of terrorism world-wide.” ####
02.27.2015	The 2015 SOAR Strategy Summit has been rescheduled for May 11 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. The original summit, planned for Feb. 16, was canceled due to a snowstorm that blanketed much of Kentucky with up to a foot of snow. Nearly 1,000 people preregistered for the SOAR Summit, titled “Creating Our Future: Regional Strategies for Growth and Development,” and those registrations will be honored for the new date. Those who cannot attend the May 11 event may submit a request for a refund online at http://www.soar-ky.org/contact/. A new registration page will be completed soon, so people who plan to attend the rescheduled date may sign up. “Safety was the No. 1 factor in our decision to postpone the SOAR Summit,” said Jared Arnett, executive director of SOAR. “In May, we can capitalize on warmer weather and come together, ready to take action on the important projects and ideas that will shape the future of our region. The agenda will have some slight changes, but the integrity of the event will remain intact. In fact, it is my hope that we gain momentum with a groundswell of eastern Kentuckians determined to be a part of this historic effort for our hometowns.” Who Should Attend Everyone who wants to be part of the SOAR Solution, including entrepreneurs, students, volunteers, nonprofit employees, local government employees, parents, elected officials, employers, educators and community leaders, is invited to attend the second SOAR Summit. “We need everyone’s commitment to grow our communities and work together as a region, so we want as many voices as possible at our upcoming Summit,” said Arnett. The Summit is designed to help citizens and community leaders: learn how to work together with other organizations and communities to have collective impact while maintaining local identity; draw lessons from examples of success in communities who have taken this approach; network with local, regional, state and federal officials along with private industry leaders; and improve community competitiveness for state and federal grants. Visit http://www.soar-ky.org/ for upcoming details about the Summit. Event Details Second SOAR Summit Creating Our Future: Regional Strategies for Growth and Development Monday, May 11, 2015 Registration at 8 a.m., program runs 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. East Kentucky Expo Center 126 Main St. Pikeville, Kentucky ###
02.26.2015	In a joint letter to President Obama and during multiple budget hearings this week, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) blasted the Administration for its continuous efforts to shut down the coal mining industry. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers advocated for regulatory relief and energy independence during hearings with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Department of Energy, the Department of Interior and the Department of State. During the EPA budget hearing, Rogers shared his disappointment in EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy's proposal to increase the agency's budget by $4 billion to implement and litigate the greenhouse gas regulations that are shuttering power plants all over the country and causing coal mines to close their doors. "I simply cannot accept a 6% increase in your funding when, by all accounts, the EPA is still working hard to eliminate more steady, well-paying jobs in the coal industry," said Chairman Rogers. "This Administration's attack on the coal industry has left 9,000 miners jobless in eastern Kentucky just since the President took office." Referencing the President's proposed POWER + Plan to assist devastated coal communities in the Appalachian region, Chairman Rogers applauded the fact that the Administration is finally taking ownership of the job losses in coal country, but said it should be coupled with regulatory relief. "The President is missing the point: for centuries, this country has run on coal. Businesses large and small rely on cheap, reliable energy to remain competitive, and drawn-out rulemaking processes and bureaucratic overreach create uncertainty that will raise energy costs and threaten American jobs," said Chairman Rogers. Rogers also criticized Dr. Ernest Moniz, Secretary of the Department of Energy for requesting astronomical budget increases that neglect critical investments in fossil energy research. "We need to pursue an all-of-the-above energy strategy. Every year, this Administration sends budget cuts for coal-related research and development, while Congress sends a clear message by restoring those cuts," said Chairman Rogers. "There's no denying that the Energy Department's massive regulatory requirements are pushing the coal industry to its limits." During a budget hearing with Secretary Sally Jewell from the Department of Interior, Rogers urged the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement to adhere to federal law by working with the states in its efforts to protect the nation's waterways. He also shared his opposition to the Administration's continued efforts to rewrite the 2008 stream buffer zone rule in a way that would force the Appalachian coal industry to close its doors. "I've got able-bodied young men, formerly making $70,000 to $80,000 a year and now they're trying to get a job at McDonald's. They have young kids, they have mortgages to pay. They're great workers with the best work ethic in America," said Chairman Rogers. "Now, they are being shoved out the door, unfortunately, by their own government and it isn't right." The Chairman also discussed the Administration’s negative attitudes towards coal exports with U.S. Secretary of State, John Kerry. “Coal exports are the one bright spot for the thousands of mining families who are facing disastrous economic conditions in my district – and yet Administration officials will not promote coal as part of its Power Africa Initiative,” said Chairman Rogers. “These emerging countries ripe for investment will instead turn to the Chinese for financing and technology to build the same coal-fired power plants. At the end of the day, these policies are anti-American jobs, and they will not have the intended environmental benefits.” Rogers also led 26 members of Congress in joint letter of opposition to the Administration's efforts to encourage members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to impose stringent conditions on public financing of overseas coal-fired power plants. The Administration recently made similar efforts to restrict coal project financing through Export-Import Bank and the World Bank. Click here to download Rogers' joint letter to the President. Click the links below to watch each budget hearing: Environmental Protection Agency - Opening Statement at 13:50/Questions at 27:00 Department of Energy - Opening Statement at 30:30/Questions at 41:30 Department of Interior- Opening Statement at 9:05 Department of State - Opening Statement at 10:57 Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ####
02.13.2015	Prescription drug abuse continues to be a serious issue for families and communities across our nation. As part of their efforts to fight this alarming epidemic, Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) andCongressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today the re-launch of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The Caucus seeks to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions that incorporate treatment, prevention, education, law enforcement, and research. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, deaths from drug overdose have become the leading cause of injury death in the United States and in 2013, more than 51% of drug overdose deaths in the United States were related to pharmaceuticals. In recent years, the number of deaths and emergency department visits related to prescription drug abuse has risen significantly. The Caucus is committed to addressing the staggering impact prescription drug abuse has on local communities. “Prescription drug abuse takes an exacting toll on individuals, families and communities. Addiction does not discriminate. It affects individuals regardless of age, gender, race, and socioeconomic status,” said Lynch. “Every day in the 8th District and across our nation, we are faced with troubling stories of the debilitating effects that the vicious cycle of prescription drug abuse has on our friends, neighbors, and family members. Working alongside my friend, Congressman Rogers, I am confident that the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse can bring legislators together to address the significant challenge of prescription drug abuse.” “The epidemic of prescription drug abuse hit Appalachian communities over a decade ago, and we’ve rallied our local communities to join collectively against the devastation wrought by abuse and addiction,” stated Rogers, who co-founded the Rx Caucus in 2010. “As we have demonstrated in my region of Kentucky, the response to this unique drug challenge needs to be multi-faceted with law enforcement, treatment professionals, educational leaders and the scientific community all sitting at the same table and playing a major role. That is why I am proud to join Congressman Lynch in re-launching this important caucus: to help our colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives coordinate and collaborate on meaningful federal policies to end this scourge for good.” In the 113th Congress, nearly three dozen members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse worked on a bipartisan basis to raise awareness of the problem nationwide and to collaborate on effective policy solutions. Members worked to secure federal funding for drug courts and prevention and treatment initiatives. They also introduced legislation to stop crushable generic pain pills from flooding the streets and engaged with high-ranking officials in the Administration on the prescription drug epidemic through letters, hearings, and briefings. In April of 2014, Lynch and Rogers, co-chairs of the Caucus, participated in a bipartisan Congressional Panel at theNational Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia. The annual Summit brings together local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies, government officials, medical personnel, pharmacists, and advocates to discuss impactful solutions to address the public health crisis of prescription drug abuse. Last year, Lynch and Rogers highlighted their efforts to ban the opioid narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER until the drug was available in an abuse deterrent form. ###
02.10.2015	In recognition of his support for national service, Congressman Hal Rogers was awarded the Distinguished Service Award by Voices for National Service. Awards were formally presented in Washington, DC at the 12th Annual Friends of National Service Awards sponsored by Comcast NBCUniversal, CSX, Bain Capital, Sankaty Advisors, and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. Click here to see the full list of award winners and details regarding the event, held on February 10th. Congressman Rogers joined a bipartisan group of advocates being honored, including Governors Terry Branstad (R-IA) and Rick Snyder (R-MI), Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Patty Murray (D-WA), Jonathan Lavine of Bain Capital, and Washington Post columnist Michael Gerson. Voices for National Service President AnnMaura Connolly said, “Congressman Hal Rogers launched Operation UNITE in 2003 to combat substance abuse in Kentucky. At the center of this comprehensive community-wide assault on the drug epidemic are 44 AmeriCorps members who provide math tutoring, recruit volunteers, and lead drug abuse prevention education programs across Kentucky. This year, Congressman Rogers also teamed up with Governor Beshear and Wendy Spencer to announce a new VISTA project that will engage full-time AmeriCorps members to tackle poverty and expand opportunity in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. We are deeply grateful to Congressman Rogers for his visionary leadership and support for national service.” “I am honored to accept this award from Voices for National Service,” said Congressman Rogers. “National service makes sense, tapping the energy of local citizens to solve local problems. AmeriCorps members are an indispensable resource for nonprofits, communities, and the individuals they serve. They have helped our eastern Kentucky students improve test scores, make healthier choices about food and exercise, and they have mentored thousands of students from broken homes. I thank all those who have answered the call to service by joining AmeriCorps, and I accept this award on their behalf.” Honorees were selected based on recognition and support for national service as a solution to some of the nation’s most pressing challenges. Each award winner has helped to raise public awareness of national service and elevate national service as a legislative priority. National service is a cost-effective strategy for engaging citizens, improving communities, and strengthening the nation. In communities across the country, national service members provide critical services to fulfill unmet needs. National service members tutor and mentor struggling students, help Americans lead healthier lives, provide job training and other services to returning veterans, preserve the nation’s parks and public lands, offer disaster relief and recovery assistance, and support independent living for seniors and Americans with disabilities. For every federal dollar invested in national service, there are returns to society of nearly four dollars in terms of higher earnings, increased output, and other community-wide benefits. Voices for National Service is a diverse coalition of national service programs, state service commissions and individual champions, who work to ensure Americans of all ages have the opportunity to serve and volunteer in their community. Founded in 2003, Voices for National Service has built strong bipartisan support among our nation's leaders and helped position national service as a viable policy solution to tackle unmet needs, expand opportunity, and leverage human capital. ####
02.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced $14.9 million in federal funding for the Town of Martin Redevelopment Project. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) released its "Work Plan" for 2015, which will utilize the federal funding to build the new Floyd County Alternative School and construct a facility that will house the new Town Hall and Police Station. "The Town of Martin Redevelopment Project has been uniquely challenging; however, it is good to hear that the Corps is committing additional resources to protect this community from the ongoing threat of flooding," said Rogers. "Devastating floods have paved a difficult path for families and businesses in Martin for far too long, but these additional funds move us towards a safer community and project completion." The Corps' Section 202 project is cost-shared with 95% federal and 5% non-federal funds. The Corps will invest $12.9 million for construction of the Floyd County Alternative School and $2 million for development of the Town Hall and Police Station. "The Army Civil Works program supports the Nation's economy, environment and quality of life," said Army Col. Leon Parrott, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Huntington District. "With the funding provided in fiscal year 2015, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will advance the important work of protecting the lives and property of this community." In May 2013, Rogers joined the Corps for a ribbon-cutting celebration to commemorate the completion of the Martin Volunteer Fire Department. Numerous homes and businesses have also been removed from the floodway. The ongoing project includes flood safe redevelopment, mandatory floodplain evacuation, voluntary flood proofing and acquisition, and relocation of public facilities. The Town of Martin has suffered ten major floods in its history. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. #####
01.30.2015	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in schools and small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers' Field Representative Carlos Cameron recently delivered approximately 100 books to the Annville Christian Academy in Jackson County. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our schools and public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Cameron presented Betty Madden and some of her students with several boxes of literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Annville Christian Academy," said Madden. "These books will be a nice addition for our students to enjoy." So far, Rogers has collected books for ten small public libraries and schools in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook.
01.22.2015	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted to establish a government-wide halt on federal funding of abortion and applauded his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the "No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015" (H.R. 7). This legislation comes on the 42nd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion in 1973. "On the anniversary of this landmark court decision, we ought to take a moment to reflect on the sanctity of human life. Millions of reported abortions have been performed in America since the decision was handed down in Roe v. Wade, and with Obamacare funding, taxpayer dollars are now paying for abortions through federal subsidies," said Rogers. "I was proud to support life by voting for this legislation, which aims to stop the use of any federal funding for abortions while mainstreaming this prohibition and closing all loopholes and exemptions." Obamacare currently allows plans offered on the exchanges to cover elective abortions and authorizes taxpayer subsidies to be used to purchase plans covering these services. Additionally, it established federal tax credits to assist certain individuals in paying for health plans offered through the individual exchanges. H.R. 7 blocks the funding in Obamacare, prohibiting the use of taxpayer dollars for abortion or health plans that cover abortion, except in cases of rape, incest, or when the life of the mother is in danger. It does not prohibit the use of federal funds to treat complications that arise from or are exacerbated by an abortion, regardless of whether the abortion was performed legally. The legislation now moves to the Senate for consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
01.21.2015	PIKEVILLE, Ky. (Jan. 21, 2015) – After an ambitious first year of mobilizing support and cataloguing visions for the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative, Governor Steve Beshear, Congressman Hal Rogers and SOAR executive director Jared Arnett announced the second annual SOAR Summit will accelerate work to implement strategies for growth in eastern Kentucky communities. Everyone with an interest in the region’s long-term development is invited to attend the Summit, titled “Creating Our Future: Regional Strategies for Growth and Development.” The Summit will be held at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville on Monday, Feb. 16, 2015. Online registration is available now atwww.soar-ky.org. “This summit is about defining tactics – how do we get to our next goals in workforce readiness, in education, in health, in attracting business – and then identifying the groups or individuals who are committed to getting us there,” said Arnett. “Since the first Summit, more than 2,500 citizens concerned with our region have given input into our plan. Through the leadership of our Working Groups, we have developed a robust, detailed vision for our region, and I’m looking forward to collectively putting our plan to work this year.” Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers launched the SOAR initiative a little over a year ago. Both will attend the Summit. “SOAR has targeted the most promising paths for success of this vital region, and we have attracted national attention because of the grassroots nature of the SOAR effort,” said Gov. Beshear. “This initiative has always been driven by the people of eastern Kentucky. This is collaborative work, and our upcoming summit will help shape strategies to grow our economy, challenge our families and strengthen our communities.” “It’s time to plan our work and work our plan for the next phase of SOAR,” said Congressman Rogers. “We have several transformational projects to celebrate in our first year alone, from the broadband initiative to the expansion of the Mountain Parkway. However, we are in a marathon and SOAR’s Strategy Summit will give us a chance to chart the course forward for job creation, agricultural opportunities, tourism improvements and all the facets that make our region a great place to work and raise a family.” Arnett designed the summit’s sessions to delve into topics that have potential to grow communities or improve quality of life in the region, such as high speed broadband, local food, rural industry and entrepreneurship. Some speakers will represent other states or regions with successes that may be replicated in eastern Kentucky, while others will discuss work currently underway in the region. Who Should Attend Everyone who wants to be part of the SOAR Solution, including entrepreneurs, students, volunteers, non-profit employees, local government employees, parents, elected officials, employers, educators and community leaders, is invited to attend the second SOAR Summit. “We need everyone’s commitment to grow our communities and work together as a region, so we want as many voices as possible at our upcoming Summit,” said Arnett. The Summit is designed to help citizens and community leaders: · learn how to work together with other organizations and communities to have collective impact while maintaining local identity; · draw lessons from examples of success in communities who have taken this approach; · network with local, regional, state, and federal officials along with private industry leaders; and · improve community competitiveness for state and federal grants. Wide-ranging agenda targets areas for successful growth In December, Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers announced an ambitious plan to leverage private sector financing to build a high-speed broadband “backbone” throughout the state, beginning in eastern Kentucky, to deliver high-quality Internet access to every community. The Summit’s first plenary session will focus on the impact of that project, particularly for economic development. The day’s agenda also includes a series of breakout sessions on a broad range of topics identified as possible growth areas for Appalachian counties, including: · The Role of Coding in our Future · Engaging the Next Generation of Leaders · Preparing Tomorrow's Workforce Today · (Local) Food for Thought · Tourism, Arts, and Heritage as an Economic Driver · Recruiting Industry in Rural Communities · Building a Culture of Innovative Entrepreneurship · Prescription for Community Health Visit www.soar-ky.org for complete details about the Summit, including agenda, directions and hotel information. Register online by Feb. 11 and pay only $10 for the daylong summit, which includes a box lunch. You may also register onsite on the day of the event for $15. Event Details Second Annual SOAR Summit Creating Our Future: Regional Strategies for Growth and Development Monday, Feb. 16, 2015 Registration at 8 a.m., program runs 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. East Kentucky Expo Center 126 Main St. Pikeville, Ky. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded passage of the 2015 federal funding bill in the U.S. House of Representatives for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (H.R. 240), along with five immigration-related amendments to bring President Obama's executive amnesty order to a halt. As Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Rogers spoke on the floor of the House about the importance of this legislation to national security. "The security of our homeland is one of our highest priorities. This bill provides $39.7 billion for that purpose – to protect our borders, defend against the threats of terrorism, and enforce our nation’s laws," said Rogers. "Today, we will also consider amendments to the bill that will address the President’s recent executive action on immigration. One of these amendments would prohibit any funding, including that collected by fees, from being used to implement the order. The American people have spoken loud and clear – they want our immigration laws enforced, rather than unilaterally changed in a way that undermines the spirit of our constitution and the integrity of our laws." The amended bill takes the following actions to curtail President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty plan for four million illegal immigrants: Prevents any federal funds from being used to carry out the President's amnesty order, defunds the internal memorandums that have gutted immigration enforcement in our country, and removes the ability of illegal immigrants to receive any federal benefits; Prohibits any funds from being used to consider new applications for deferred action; Ensures that sex offenders and domestic violence perpetrators are prioritized for deportation; Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Administration should stop putting the interests of unlawful immigrants ahead of legal immigrants; and Expresses the sense of the Congress that U.S. workers should not be harmed by the President's illegal actions, a reference to the perverse $3,000 incentive created by the President's order to hire illegal immigrants. The legislation passed the House on Wednesday, January 14 with a vote of 236 to 191 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. Click here for more information about H.R. 240. Click here to watch Chairman Rogers' entire floor speech on immigration and DHS funding Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) cosponsored and voted for the "Save American Workers Act" (H.R. 30) to repeal an Obamacare mandate that redefined a full-time work week as 30 hours, hampering job creation and cutting American paychecks by as much as 25 percent. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill on Thursday afternoon. "As Obamacare has rolled out, we've seen the terrible impact the law has had on working families. The wrong-headed 30-hour rule is no exception, as it's destroying jobs and opportunities for lower-income Americans," said Rogers. "The rule forces employers to offer health insurance to employees working 30 hours or more. The unfortunate result is that employers have instead cut employee hours from 40 or more down to 29 or less, meaning many of these workers are losing what they need the most: experience, opportunity and a steady paycheck. The bill we passed will benefit employees by allowing work schedule flexibility and the potential for up to 10 more hours a week, and also help employers focus on growing their business and creating jobs." A recent study performed by the Labor Center at the University of California, Berkeley and the Hoover Institution showed 2.6 million workers or 3.1% of the United States workforce are at the greatest risk for a reduction of hours due to Obamacare's 30-hour rule. Rogers urges the Senate to act swiftly on this legislation and encourages President Obama to help fix this job-killing portion of his healthcare law. Rogers also warned that Obamacare's individual mandate also kicks in this year, and he remains committed to fully repealing the law. Individuals without health insurance will be penalized by a $325 tax or 2% of taxable income. The House attempted to delay the individual mandate last year, but the measure died in the Senate. The Galen Institute reported "more than 46 significant changes already have been made to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: at least 28 that President Obama has made unilaterally, 16 that Congress has passed and the President has signed, and 2 by the Supreme Court." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
01.06.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) took the oath of office for his 18th term serving the people of southern and eastern Kentucky as the U.S. Representative for the Fifth Congressional District. The 114th Congress gains 58 new House members and 13 freshmen in the Senate. "Great things are on the horizon for southern and eastern Kentuckians, and I am more confident than ever before in what we can accomplish together. With support from federal, state and local partners, our unified mission to diversify the economy and improve the future of our region is already bearing fruit through the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative. In fact, next year, we will finally have high speed, high capacity broadband access in every single county and it will transform the way we do business. "Over the next two years, I will continue working for economic growth, job creation, tourism opportunities and improvements in education and wellness. I will also work to rein in overreaching federal agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, fight for more treatment and education for prescription drug abuse, and take action to bring President Obama's executive amnesty order to a halt." In November, Rogers was also selected by his peers to continue serving as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee for the next two years. "I have been proud to oversee the Committee's important work to fund federal government programs in a transparent responsible way - saving the American taxpayers more than $165 billion over the past four years," said Rogers. "As Chairman, I also look forward to working with Senator Mitch McConnell in his new role as Majority Leader to bring an end to gridlock in Washington and pass common-sense federal funding bills to bring our Nation back to regular order." Rogers is Kentucky's longest serving Republican in federal office, having served 34 years in Congress. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
12.23.2014	FRANKFORT, Ky. – A new public-private partnership will develop a robust, reliable, fiber “backbone” infrastructure to bring high-speed Internet connectivity to every corner of the Commonwealth – with the critical first components scheduled to be operational in less than two years. Governor Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers announced the partnership with Macquarie Capital today. “We are on an aggressive timeline and believe that the Macquarie team’s technical capabilities and history of innovative solutions are the best fit for this important project,” said Gov. Beshear. “Kentucky’s Internet speed and accessibility have lagged behind the rest of the nation far too long. This partnership puts us on the path to propel the Commonwealth forward in education, economic development, health care, public safety and much more.” This infrastructure project is unlike any other seen in Kentucky in the last 50 years. Broadband, now considered an essential utility service, will improve Kentucky’s dismal connectivity and slow speeds to some of the fastest and highest capacity service in the U.S. – all with the potential to lower consumer costs and improve coverage as well. Just as important, this project will be paid for up front by leveraging private capital at no additional cost to Kentucky taxpayers. “If we were to rely solely on state government funding to get this project off the ground, it would take years, if not decades. Those kinds of tax dollars just aren’t available,” said Gov. Beshear. “In this technology-dependent economy, we can’t afford to wait another minute. That’s why this partnership is so valuable – it ramps up this project to the speed of the private sector without any additional burden on our taxpayers.” State to oversee main broadband lines The first stage of the project is to build the main broadband fiber lines across the state. These major fiber lines are called the “middle mile.” The “open access” network will allow the private sector to use the fiber to deliver services into communities. Once complete, other Internet service provider companies, cities, partnerships, or other groups may then tap into those “middle mile” lines to complete the “last mile” – the lines that run to individual homes or businesses. Where already in place, the project will take advantage of existing infrastructure, thus partnering with local telecommunications companies, municipalities and major carriers to deliver the network more quickly and reduce construction costs. Improved cell phone coverage is anticipated as part of the initiative. Cell phone companies may choose to use the state’s “middle-mile” fiber network to add capacity and broaden coverage areas throughout the Commonwealth that have traditionally had poor cell phone reception. Eastern Kentucky to be first priority When completed, the more than 3,000 miles of fiber will be in place across the state. This “middle-mile” fiber infrastructure is key to reaching much of Kentucky’s large rural population. Fiber will be available in all 120 counties, and the underserved eastern Kentucky region will be the first priority area for the project. The Center for Rural Development in Somerset will partner with the Commonwealth, focusing on communities east of Interstate 75. The Center will also host education workshops to help communities learn how to connect to the new network. The push for reliable, accessible high-speed broadband is one recommendation that emerged from SOAR, the “Shaping Our Appalachian Region” initiative. “We’re laying the first bricks for what could be ‘Silicon Holler.’ This new Super I-Way is the cornerstone of SOAR’s mission to diversify the economy in eastern Kentucky with improvements in business recruitment, fast-tracking telemedicine in the mountains, and adding high tech advancements in education,” said Congressman Rogers. “I commend all of our federal, state and local partners for working together on this project that will undoubtedly chart the course for a better future in the coalfields and across the Commonwealth.” Over the past several months the Commonwealth, in conjunction with the Center for Rural Development, released the request for proposal solicitation and negotiated with private sector vendors including Macquarie Capital. Work on design, scope of fiber system to start right away Macquarie Capital has assembled a team of market-leading specialists to design, develop and operate the network over the next 30 years. While the private sector partners will bear developmental and operational risks of the project, the Commonwealth will retain ownership of the network. Macquarie will begin work immediately on phase one to design the overall statewide system and determine the project’s scale. The design and cost estimates are due by the end of February 2015 with construction of the first segments expected to begin in the summer and completed by April 2016. The total cost of the project will depend upon the ability to leverage existing infrastructure versus deploying new routes, which will be determined during the design phase. Overall, the project is estimated to cost between $250 million to $350 million, and will be supported by approximately $30 million in state bonds and $15 to $20 million in federal grants. Work along I-75 from northern Kentucky to Williamsburg will form the “spine” of the network, with work in the priority region of southeastern Kentucky occurring simultaneously. More than 100 key facilities will be connected, including universities, state government buildings and community and technical colleges. Public-private partnership leverages private market, lowers costs The initiative will be a partnership of government at all levels and the private sector. The public-private partnership – often referred to as a P3 – allows the state to leverage resources to fill service gaps. In this case, private capital will be used to build the network at no additional cost to Kentucky taxpayers. This project likely would never be undertaken with traditional state financing methods. The state chose to use a P3 for several reasons. The P3 model is well-established and enables projects to be completed on an accelerated timetable while transferring risk to the private sector partners. These partners also bring expertise, innovation and flexibility to the project. Bringing private sector investment to build the network significantly decreases the time needed for design and construction, making broadband access available sooner for families and businesses. Finally, with the state’s oversight of the main broadband lines, consumer costs may be lowered by eliminating the need for private providers to build duplicate network infrastructure; that means Internet service providers can instead invest in cell phone service or “last-mile” service. “Macquarie Capital and its partners are extremely excited about the opportunity to develop this network under the public-private partnership model, bringing together a team of market leading specialists focused on implementing the network as quickly as possible,” said Nick Hann, senior managing director at Macquarie Capital. “We believe that this project will be the centerpiece of Kentucky’s long-term economic infrastructure, demonstrating the core principles of value for money and risk transfer to the private sector that will translate into a successful long-term partnership with the Commonwealth.” Macquarie’s consortium partners include First Solutions, Fujitsu Network Communications Inc., Black & Veatch, and Bowlin Group. Broadband is an essential public utility; project expected to lower consumer costs In today’s economy, high-speed Internet is no longer a luxury, but is as essential to a community as water or electricity. A modern, high-capacity fiber infrastructure allows businesses to compete globally, educators to expand their use of rich teaching resources, students to access the knowledge of the world, health care entities to collaborate and first responders to communicate easily in emergency situations. The project scope is similar to building other public utilities. Consider the broadband fiber lines to be like the main water lines in a community. The largest water lines are built in central community areas, and then smaller lines branch off the main line. Finally, someone connects the street line to an individual home or business. The broadband project will act in much the same way. The first phase of the project is to build the main broadband fiber lines across the state, then construct branches off the main line to deliver into communities. These major fiber lines are the “middle mile,” and other Internet service provider companies, cities, partnerships, or other groups may then tap into those lines to complete the “last mile” – the lines that run to individual homes or businesses. The project will leverage state government’s existing Internet networks to build a kind of high-speed delivery line throughout the state. One of the most important features is that the network will be truly “open access,” meaning many other Internet and cell phone service providers can lease portions of the network. More important, those leases will not be limited to one provider per county or community; several groups may lease the network, which will give consumers a choice in purchasing their broadband. By partnering with the network, providers will be able to reduce their costs when building out “last mile” service to customers. That competition should result in lower consumer costs. Internet access isn’t high-speed broadband Kentucky ranks 46th in broadband availability and 23 percent of rural areas in Kentucky do not have access to broadband. Most households in the state have access to an Internet Service Provider (ISP), but that’s not the same as high-speed broadband. High-speed broadband is capable of carrying much larger amounts of information to a larger group of users at much faster speeds. As the federal definition of broadband changes, and minimum speed increases (often in megabits per second, or MBS), Kentucky falls further behind because the service available to citizens does not meet these minimum qualifications. Today, only about half of the state’s households use broadband service, and nearly one-quarter can’t access broadband at all. Click here to watch video of the broadband contract announcement: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYDwOWxz9qY ###
12.17.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) praised members of the U.S. Congress for passing the consolidated federal funding bill for fiscal year 2015, to avoid a government shutdown, rein in government overreach, and fund most government agencies through September 30, 2015. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers worked tirelessly to ensure the legislation was a win for Kentucky. President Obama signed the Omnibus bill into law on Tuesday, December 16. "This law includes funding for important programs that are priorities for communities in southern and eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. "For example, the legislation provides specific economic development assistance for coal mining communities, funds much-needed rural housing loans, and supports a number of initiatives to fight the epidemic of prescription drug abuse. It also decreases the backlog of military veterans' claims and reins in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Let me be clear: this law does not include any new funding for the President's Executive Amnesty plan. We will address his amnesty plan with the new Congress in 2015." Additional items to note in the law that will benefit Southern and Eastern Kentuckians: Drug Abuse The legislation supports a holistic, multifaceted approach to the scourge of prescription drug abuse, including funding for our federal law enforcement officers on the front lines, critical drug abuse treatment programs, and educational efforts to help states implement model drug laws that reduce diversion and abuse. $20 million is provided for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to partner with the states hardest hit by the prescription drug epidemic in developing and implementing strategies to combat addictions and abuse. It includes the following funding for treatment, law enforcement, education and other drug-related issues: Treatment $91 million for Drug Courts, plus an additional $1.4 million for technical training for the judges who administer these important courts $5 million for Veterans Treatment Courts to meet the unique needs of those who have bravely served in the U.S. Armed Forces Law Enforcement $367 million for DEA’s diversion control program, with encouragement to intensify support for its Distributor Initiative $7 million for an anti-meth task force, plus $7 million to help state and local law enforcement agencies clean up meth labs $7 million for an anti-heroin task force $175, 465 million for National Guard Counter-Drug Operations, including support for the Kentucky National Guard to eradicate marijuana from the Daniel Boone National Forest. The Kentucky State Police reported nearly a half million plants were eradicated in Kentucky last year. $245 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). The Appalachian HIDTA, covering parts of Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia, has been a national leader in the fight against prescription drug abuse. In partnership with Operation UNITE, AHIDTA recently launched a pilot voluntary program in southern and eastern Kentucky to distribute free oral drug testing kits for parents who suspect their children are abusing drugs at home. Education $1.25 million to help states develop and implement legislation to reduce drug abuse. Other The legislation includes a number of other provisions aimed at spurring federal action to reduce the abuse and misuse of prescription drugs. For example, the legislation: expresses opposition to the approval of the powerful painkiller, Zohydro, by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and requires the agency to report to Congress on its ability to track usage of the drug once it is on the market, encourages the FDA to finalize guidance on Abuse Deterrent Formulations in order to incentivize innovation in this emerging field for manufacturing prescription narcotics, and encourages the Department of Defense (DoD) and Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities to participate in the Drug Enforcement Administration's (DEA) prescription drug take-back program. Coal The legislation demonstrates the Congress' commitment to reining in the EPA and beating back the Administration's devastating anti-coal policies. It cuts EPA funding by $60 million below the 2014 level, causing the agency to reduce its staffing to the lowest level since 1989. The Obama Administration is prevented from moving forward with a policy that would preclude U.S. investments in coal-fired generation plants overseas. By putting a halt to this regulation, the legislation ensures that U.S. coal will have a vibrant market in emerging economies around the world. It prevents the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers from changing the definition of “fill material,” which would be harmful to several U.S. industries, including the coal mining industry. The bill rejects a proposal from President Obama to spend $66 million on new or expanded job-killing regulatory programs at the EPA. $571 million is included for Fossil Energy Research to ensure that the U.S. is developing in the necessary technology to maintain coal as a part of its energy portfolio for the long term. It directs the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to submit monthly status reports on any Section 404 mining permit applications under review. These monthly reports will allow the House Appropriations Committee to oversee how many mining permit applications have been submitted, the number of days under review, and whether they are being approved. The law maintains Office of Surface Mining State regulatory grants at $68 million to allow states to implement programs without increasing fees on the mining industry. It also rejects the President’s proposal to hire more Federal regulators to increase Federal oversight inspections of State programs. The law prevents the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers from regulating certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches, under the Clean Water Act. Economic and Community Development The legislation includes funding for a number of federal programs that support the efforts of southern and eastern Kentucky communities to create new opportunities through access to pre-school and post-secondary education, access to low-income housing opportunities, and supports grants for important programs in the region. It includes: Support for Economic Development $10 million for the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) to develop a comprehensive strategy to assist coal mining communities $90 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), including $10 million for broadband development in distressed Central Appalachian counties $2.5 million for the Small Business Administration (SBA) to make micro-loans in small and rural communities to create new job opportunities $230 million to help Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) build their capacity to serve low-income individuals and communities that otherwise lack access to affordable financial products and services $3 million for the HubZone Program, which helps small businesses in rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities $3.4 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to keep families safe and healthy through initiatives supporting energy assistance $674 million for Community Services Block Grants, which help the region's Community Action Agencies further their mission to provide critical services $372 million for Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), a program that provides funds to local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their jurisdictions $12.7 million for a competitive grant program to provide technical assistance for improved water quality or safe drinking water in rural communities Support for Rural Housing $900 million for Section 502 Direct Loans, which helps low-income individuals or households purchase homes in rural areas $27.5 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Section 523 Self-Home program, which helps very low-income families construct their own affordable homes $900 million for the HOME program, which provides formula grants to states and localities that can be used to build, buy and/or rehabilitate affordable housing for rent or home ownership or provide direct rental assistance to low-income people A flat-rent provision was also included, allowing local market factors to be considered when flat-rent rates are determined. This will keep rental rates low for many of Kentucky's Fifth District Residents. Support for Education Programs $839 million for TRIO programs, which serves and assists low-income individuals and first-generation college students as they progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to college. $301 million for Gear Up Programs, which are designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in post-secondary education. $8.5 billion for Head Start, which provides comprehensive early childhood education, health, nutrition, and parent involvement services to low-income families. The law reinstates student aid eligibility for students enrolled in career pathways programs. It provides an opportunity for laid off coal miners and other individuals that do not have a high school diploma or the equivalent to receive federal financial aid, if enrolled in an eligible career pathways program. Veterans Directs the DoD and VA to develop an interoperable health records management system, allowing agencies within each Department to be able to communicate regarding patient services and records. Funds VA medical services at $45.2 billion, including funding for mental health services, suicide prevention and treatment for homeless veterans Includes $2.5 billion for processing the disability claims backlog at the VA Provides $5 million to the VA Office of the Inspector General for the purpose of addressing the VA “wait list” scandal and continue auditing the VA hospital appointment scheduling process and lapses in patient care Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ####
12.16.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (Ky-05) applauded another achievement in the effort to include Mill Springs Battlefield in the National Parks Service. Last week, Congress approved the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2015, which included language from Rogers' bill, H.R. 298. The legislation directs the Department of Interior to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of adopting Mill Springs Battlefield into the National Park System. "Rich with Civil War history, the Mill Springs Battlefield makes for an excellent addition to the National Park Service," said Rogers. "This legislation puts us another step closer to educating the nation about this historic site in Kentucky and maintains this land for future generations." In the early 1990s, the U.S. Department of Interior classified the site of the Battle of Mill Springs, located in Pulaski and Wayne Counties, as one of the most endangered battlefields in Kentucky. After years of work preserving the historic site, the Mill Springs Battlefield Association expressed its desire to turn the site over to the National Park Service and the people of the United States for future generations to enjoy. The bill gives NPS three years to conduct a study to evaluate incorporating the battlefield into the National Park System. The analysis would consider the impacts on surrounding communities, recreational activities, and the cost of federal government operation. The legislation passed the U.S. House by a vote of 325-98 on December 4 and was approved by the U.S. Senate, with the support of Republican Leader Mitch McConnell by a vote of 89-11, on December 11. The President is expected to sign the legislation into law before the end of the year. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
12.05.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded passage of the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act (H.R. 5759). Rogers co-sponsored the bill that passed by a vote of 219 to 197 in the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday, December 4. The bill reaffirms that the President does not have the authority to exempt more than four million illegal immigrants from deportation. "This legislation puts an immediate halt on President Obama's executive amnesty and prevents any future orders that would attempt to bypass Congress on immigration," said Rogers. "The American people spoke loud and clear - they want our immigration laws enforced rather than a suspension and override of our Constitution." H.R. 5759 applies to all new and previously denied requests for exemptions and deferrals of removal from the United States, as well as any related work authorization. It also provides for necessary exceptional humanitarian and law enforcement exceptions. Additionally, this bill does not affect federal funding and will not put the country at risk of a government shutdown. Rogers urged the Senate to take immediate action on this legislation.
12.05.2014	During a recent trip to Washington, D.C., Congressman Rogers' District staff met with Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and nearly all of the ARC program managers to discuss resources that are available to local communities in Kentucky's Appalachian region. The ARC assists local communities with issues like broadband, housing, infrastructure, sewer and water. Congressman Rogers' staff members expressed their desire to help bridge communication between the federal agency and local communities in need. (PHOTO: Left to Right: Adam Rice, Field Representative; Nick Camic, Field Representative; Earl Gohl (ARC); Carlos Cameron, Field Representative; Karen Kelly, District Director) ###
12.03.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) signed on as a co-sponsor of the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act (H.R. 5759), reaffirming that the President does not have the authority to exempt more than four million illegal immigrants from deportation. This legislation will apply to President Obama’s recently announced executive actions and any future orders that would also attempt to circumvent the law. "Executive amnesty undermines the spirit of our Constitution, the integrity of our immigration laws and discourages the thousands of people who are patiently working to achieve the American dream through the legal immigration process," said Rogers. "This bill reiterates the authority of Congress and speaks for thousands of Americans who have widely rejected the President's blanket pardon of illegal immigrants." The effective date of the bill coincides with the President’s speech on November 20, and applies to all new and previously denied requests for exemptions and deferrals of removal from the United States, as well as any related work authorization. It also provides for necessary exceptional humanitarian and law enforcement exceptions. Additionally, this bill does not affect federal funding and will not put the country at risk of a government shutdown. The bill is scheduled to be considered by the House on Thursday, December 4, 2014. ###
12.02.2014	On Monday, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) urged the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw a rule from its Clean Power Plan that is designed to regulate emissions from existing coal-fired power plants and further crush the coal mining industry. "Communities in southern and eastern Kentucky already feel the devastating impacts of these policies and currently have some of the highest unemployment rates in the nation," said Rogers. "The continued imposition of strict regulations on coal-fired power plants is forcing companies to close their doors, and lay off hardworking individuals with few other employment options." The proposed Section 111(d) rule will force Kentucky to reduce carbon emissions from its 20 coal-fired power plants by 18% by the year 2030. In 2012, two years before the EPA unveiled its Clean Power Plan, the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet projected that electricity fees in the Commonwealth would increase 25% between 2011 and 2025, resulting in roughly 30,000 lost jobs. The Cabinet also warned that increasing energy costs would cause the Commonwealth to eliminate 17,500 full-time positions in the manufacturing sector alone. "Rather than forging a realistic path toward a thriving energy economy, the EPA has wrapped reliable energy production in red tape and effectively shuttered a crucial domestic energy," said Rogers. "This agency should join me in supporting a true 'all of the above' energy policy, and work with Congress to propel this nation forward on its path toward achieving energy independence." Rogers' submitted his official statement regarding the costly rule during the comment period for the agency's Clean Power Plan and reiterated his frustration with the EPA for refusing to hold any of its four listening sessions in a coal producing region. "The EPA's decision to make it difficult for those who work in the industry to express their concerns about a rule that will undoubtedly impact their livelihoods demonstrates this agency's lack of concern for the real world consequences of its actions," said Rogers. The EPA has stated that the final rule will be issued in June of 2015. Click here to read Congressman Rogers' full statement on the EPA Clean Power Plan. ###
11.24.2014	As the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative approaches its second year, executive board members welcomed the new SOAR executive director and considered ways for the initiative to move from information-gathering efforts into action plans. Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers, the initiative’s co-chairs, called on the board to return to their communities with a renewed energy to tackle the more difficult work of implementing the recommendations gathered from a year’s worth of regional conversations. “We have always said that the SOAR initiative must be driven by the residents of eastern Kentucky. For the past year, the people of this region have met and talked about their hopes for their communities and families, and now we have to figure out a way to make those goals happen,” said Gov. Beshear. “We have an excellent road map now, and we must keep everyone engaged as we choose the best strategies to meet those goals.” “It’s time to put action behind the innovative SOAR ideas that can spur job creation and help enhance our region,” said Congressman Rogers. “With Jared Arnett leading the way as SOAR’s new Executive Director, I’m confident that this initiative is poised to be molded into a successful organization that will have long-term benefits for our future.” In his first SOAR meeting as the Founding Executive Director, Jared Arnett presented the board with recommendations for next year’s program of work, which includes strategies for enhancing education access, health, job training and tourism in the region. The daylong meeting included a reception for city and county elected officials, as well as state legislative members of the Coal Caucus, to encourage them to continue to participate and support SOAR. “Local support is critical to keep SOAR as a priority not just in this board meeting, but also in every city council meeting and every fiscal court meeting across this region,” said Arnett. Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers also recognized Chuck Fluharty, president and CEO of the Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), which has served as the interim administrative body for SOAR. The co-chairs gave Fluharty a formal commendation to thank him for his work in organizing and supporting SOAR over the past year. RUPRI will continue to support SOAR in a consulting role. Working groups transition to action groups For the past year, ten different working groups have held dozens of meetings across the southern and eastern Kentucky region to gather ideas about a range of topics including education, job training, tourism, infrastructure and private investment. Arnett announced that these working groups will transition into action groups, with the chairs forming an advisory team which will report directly to Arnett. Board actions promote tourism, attract jobs, enhance grassroots support The board passed a motion to send a letter of support to appropriate parties encouraging partnerships to enhance whitewater rafting tourism opportunities at the Breaks Interstate Park in Pike County. In planning for the upcoming legislative session, the board voted to support a bill to create the Kentucky Appalachian Regional Development Fund, which would be operated by the Kentucky Department for Local Government. SOAR will work to build an endowment to support development projects in Eastern Kentucky. The board also passed a motion to conduct a campaign for a SOAR license plate to further unify the regional grassroots effort, and provide a source of operating capital for the initiative. Local businesses now have an opportunity to become a SOAR corporate partner, which indicates that the business supports the goals of SOAR. Jim Host, an executive board member, announced SOAR’s first four official partnerships. Forcht Bank and Booth Energy were named SOAR Founding Partners while Walters Automotive of Pikeville and Community Trust Bank, Inc. were named SOAR East Kentucky Sponsors. Businesses interested in becoming SOAR partners should contact Jared Arnett at the SOAR office at 66-437-5127. Next SOAR summit Plans are underway for the second SOAR summit, which is tentatively scheduled for President’s Day, February 16, 2015 in Pikeville. The first summit last year attracted about 1,700 interested citizens for a daylong discussion of the possibilities for the region and for the SOAR initiative. Further plans for the summit will be announced as they become available. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers late last year, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. ###
11.19.2014	Today, the House Republican Conference elected Congressman Hal Rogers to a third term as Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. Chairman Rogers made the following statement: “I am honored and humbled that the Republican Conference has entrusted me to lead the Appropriations Committee for another two years,” Chairman Rogers said. “So far as Chairman, I have been proud to oversee the Committee’s important work funding federal government programs in a transparent, responsible way – saving the American taxpayer more than $165 billion over the past four years. “I intend to continue these accomplishments in the next Congress. Through a return to regular order, our Committee can continue to cut wasteful spending, rein in the Obama Administration’s executive overreach, bring back responsible governing, and put our nation on a solid fiscal path.” #####
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) continues to stand firm against amnesty, while working diligently as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on federal discretionary funding for the rest of the year. "There's no one stronger than me against unilateral action by the President on” immigration. (CNN, 11/13/14) If President Obama acts on immigration before the spending bill is done, there will be an “explosion.” (Fox News, 11/13/14) "I don't want a shutdown and I don't want the threat of a shutdown. Because that doesn't serve our purposes." (Associated Press, 11/13/14) House Appropriations Chairman Harold Rogers said Wednesday that he and House leaders are committed to passing an omnibus spending bill by the end of the year. (CQ, 11/12/14) Read more about the state of play in Congress: GOP debates its immigration strategy as Obama prepares executive action. (The Washington Post, 11/13/14) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
10.23.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) served as a tour guide on Wednesday, October 22, as 50 leaders from across southern and eastern Kentucky boarded a tour bus, dubbed by Rogers as the "Silicon Holler Express." The tour was designed to help leaders of the SOAR-Shaping Our Appalachian Region organization learn more about five sophisticated facilities currently utilizing high-speed Internet along I-75 in southern Kentucky. Each company displayed the types of opportunities that could be created in the rest of the region with the development of the 3,000-mile broadband interstate, announced by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear, that is scheduled to begin in Eastern Kentucky before the end of the year and will be extended to the rest of the Commonwealth. "We're already doing high-tech business where high-speed Internet is available, but with Kentucky's new 'Super I-way,' we will be able to recruit even more complex businesses, and draw them to what I like to call Silicon Holler," said Rogers, referencing the high-tech jobs in the famed Silicon Valley. "The first phase of the broadband project is expected to be complete in the next 18 months, so now is the time to plan our work and work our plan." "Access to high-speed and high-quality Internet is no longer a luxury; it's a necessity in the 21st century economy. Businesses and schools demand it," said Gov. Beshear. "That's why Congressman Rogers and I announced an ambitious state and federal investment earlier this year to extend critically-needed high-speed broadband Internet access to the furthest reaches of the Commonwealth. This tour shows the region's leaders the opportunities that reliable, accessible and affordable high-speed internet can bring to a community." The underserved eastern Kentucky region will be the first priority area for the project, which will be supported by $60 million in state bonds and $40 million in federal and private sources. "This project will transform the future of eastern Kentucky. It will change the forefront of job recruitment, education, healthcare and tourism," said Jared Arnett, SOAR's newly named Founding Executive Director. "Recruitment for companies seeking this fiber optic infrastructure and low costs starts right now. With new resources allocated through SOAR and the collaboration of people from across all aisles, we are already engineering a new path forward for the people of this region." First stop: Blackboard, Inc. in the Valley Oak Technology Park in Somerset. Blackboard employs more than 400 people and operates a call center to support college students with financial aid issues. Second stop: Source H.O.V. in the South Rockcastle Industrial Park in Mount Vernon. More than 400 employees are working to digitize Veterans benefits claims by converting and indexing millions of paper documents into electronic formats for loading to the Veterans Benefits Management System. Source H.O.V. has been operating in Mount Vernon for more than 20 years. Third stop: Senture, LLC in London. Senture maintains steady employment of over 400 people in London, with an additional facility in Wayne County that can house up to 500 employees at one time. In addition to call center operations, Senture provides clients with data management and reporting, order processing and literature fulfillment. Fourth stop: Kentucky Consular Center in Williamsburg. The Kentucky Consular Center is a centralized processing center for nonimmigrant visa applications approved by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, currently handling approximately 420,000 cases annually. Fifth stop: Troll and Toad, LLC in Corbin. In 1994, Jon and Lana Huston began selling collectible hobby games from their home. Thanks to expanded online sales, the company employs 145 people in a 26,000 square feet facility and has been named one of the fastest growing companies by Inc. Magazine. Click here to learn more about the broadband project For more information about SOAR, visit http://governor.ky.gov/soar/ and follow SOAR activities on Facebook@ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ###
10.03.2014	The Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) executive board today announced the hiring of Jared Arnett, of Harold, as the regional initiative’s founding executive director. Arnett, the CEO of the Southeast Kentucky (SEKY) Chamber of Commerce, has been involved with the SOAR initiative since its start last December and currently serves as the chair of the business incubation working group. He will begin the new position Nov. 1. SOAR co-chairs Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers cited Arnett’s passion for the future of eastern Kentucky, energy, vision and entrepreneurial business skills as key factors in his hire. “I’m proud to say that SOAR’s founding leader is first and foremost an eastern Kentuckian who knows firsthand the greatest needs and challenges of our region,” said Congressman Rogers. “Jared’s experience exemplifies our mission at SOAR through his work to promote regionalism, job creation and strategic planning for the future. I have great confidence in his ability to take this organization to the next level and I encourage leaders across the region to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with him as we work collectively for a better eastern Kentucky.” “Jared Arnett has been a believer in SOAR since it started last year, and his enthusiasm for the potential of eastern Kentucky is infectious,” said Gov. Beshear. “He’s a relentless innovator, he’s well-connected to the people and institutions of eastern Kentucky, and he is deeply committed to advancing this region. He’s the right person to carry the SOAR initiative forward.” Arnett has deep ties to Appalachia, especially to the entrepreneur and business communities. He helped transition the Pike County Chamber of Commerce into the regional Southeast Kentucky Chamber of Commerce in 2011, and was later named CEO. Since then, the chamber has grown to include more than 500 regional businesses with a 40 percent increase in budget. “I am humbled to be selected for this historic position,” Arnett said. “I have tremendous respect for Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers for their continued commitment to implement a change in trajectory for Kentucky’s Appalachian region. I have spent much of my professional career to this end, and I am excited to continue that mission. I believe the best way to predict the future is to create it, and that is the essence of SOAR. I am honored to serve the executive board and to continue to build the region’s capacity for job creation.” A native of Salyersville, Arnett has spent his professional career in Pikeville. He earned a bachelor’s degree and an MBA from Morehead State University. House Speaker Greg Stumbo, of Prestonsburg, said, “The SOAR initiative has come a long way in a short period of time, and this hire represents the next major step in that process. I’m pleased to see Jared take on this responsibility and know he will do an outstanding job as we all work toward helping the region take full advantage of our ideas and resources. I look forward to working with him in the months and years ahead.” “SOAR has already brought together numerous resources and people, crossing county lines and putting aside differences to work for common goals – the economic survival and renewed growth of eastern Kentucky,” said Senate President Robert Stivers, of Manchester. “Hiring the executive director is a commitment that the momentum achieved so far continues forward, and ensures the mission of SOAR remains focused.” The Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), which has served as the interim administrative body for SOAR over the last year, will continue to support SOAR in a consulting role. “RUPRI has been humbled and honored to play a small role in the development of SOAR, which now stands as one of our nation’s most innovative regional rural governance models,” said Chuck Fluharty, president and CEO of RUPRI, who has served as interim executive director. “SOAR must achieve results in a ‘collective impact’ framework, and Jared is an absolutely perfect selection to lead this region and its people in this approach. Jared’s leadership is already evidenced in his career achievements, which reflect his unique vision, collaborative approach, inclusive decision making, and understanding that lifting all sectors and all people is essential to fully achieving the region’s potential. He is also a servant leader, which must be evident if this region is to achieve the amazing impact it is poised to deliver.” “Jared will be an outstanding leader for the SOAR initiative because it suits his strengths and interests in supporting eastern Kentucky,” said John Blackburn, chair of the SEKY Chamber. “I’m happy for the opportunity Jared has been given, but we will miss the leadership he has provided during some stormy times in the past two years.” Arnett will be responsible for the organization’s consistent achievement of strategic, operational and financial goals through strong management, leadership and communication with the wide array of citizens and stakeholders engaged in the mission to improve the economy and quality of life for the future of the region. He will develop and implement the SOAR Program of Work, as described in the Jan. 13, 2014, Final Report to the Region. The director reports to the SOAR executive board. Arnett will work with the executive board to host a follow-up SOAR Summit in early 2015. Last December’s summit brought 1,700 people to Pikeville to discuss their vision for the region. Since that time, more than 2,500 citizens have been involved in providing detailed input for how to make positive changes in education and retraining, tourism, economic development, broadband, health, agriculture, regional collaboration, infrastructure and youth engagement.
09.22.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined Dr. Eli Capilouto, President of the University of Kentucky, and members of the Lake Cumberland Area UK Alumni Association at a reception at The Center for Rural Development on Monday evening to recognize eight Rogers Scholars graduates from across southern and eastern Kentucky who are all enrolled in UK Law School. "I am so proud of all of our Rogers Scholars, but to have eight of our top students enrolled in UK Law School, emphasizes the impressive academic ranks that our students from southern and eastern Kentucky are achieving," said Rogers, who is an alumnus of UK Law School. "I commend Dr. Capilouto, the University of Kentucky and the 16 other colleges and universities that now offer scholarships to Rogers Scholars, recognizing the talent that we have in the mountains. Not only are we making great strides in high school graduation rates and college degrees, but our students are proving they can compete at every level." Six of the eight UK Law School students are all part of the same graduating class. Students include: Zac Brown of Whitley County, Caitlin Housley of Perry County, Jared Crum of Martin County, Michelle Balaklaw of Pike County, Clay Warriner of Knox County, Seth Coomer of Adair County, Ali Bocook of Casey County and Jenna Reecer Anderson of Monroe County. “The Rogers Scholars program shows that Kentucky students can compete – and succeed – alongside the best and brightest students across the country,” said President Eli Capilouto. “It’s a pleasure to have so many who are part of the UK family and watch as they earn their degrees and create positive change across the communities they touch. The Rogers Scholars program was launched in 1998 to provide leadership and college scholarship opportunities for upcoming high school juniors in southern and eastern Kentucky to develop the skills they need to seize their potential as the region's next generation of leaders. "I have seen first-hand how the Rogers Scholars program can change the lives of youth in southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Lonnie Lawson, President and CEO of The Center for Rural Development. “The program provides scholars with real-life experiences in fields such as healthcare and technology, and gives them a chance to understand all that is available to them as a career pathway, including starting their own businesses. What’s more, the program gives them access to scholarship opportunities that enables them to continue on with their education." Over the last 16 years, more than $7.2 million dollars have been offered to Rogers Scholars. "The community-service component of the program is very important to the future growth and sustainability of the Appalachian region of Kentucky," said The Center's Community Liaison & Youth Programs Coordinator Delaney Stephens. "The Rogers Scholars program provides our youth with essential leadership skills that serve as the foundation of future academic and entrepreneurial endeavors, and inspires them to pursue their careers right at home in Kentucky." To learn more about the Rogers Scholars program, visit http://centeryouthprograms.com or call Delaney Stephens at The Center for Rural Development at 606-677-6000. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers.
09.19.2014	?U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) commends Angela Lockhart, a teacher at Pike County Central High School, for being recognized as a 2014 Angel in Adoption. Lockhart received the award on Wednesday, September 17th in Washington, D.C. "Angela and her husband Keith have been champions for the adoption of children with special needs, as well as improvements in adoption procedures and improved insurance coverage for much-needed therapy," said Rogers. "Angela has not only extended her heart to her own adopted children, but has shared her compassion for children and families in need with hundreds of people across southern and eastern Kentucky who struggle through the adoption process. She is indeed an Angel in Adoption." Angela has guided numerous families through the proper channels for adopting children and finding resources to help children with special needs in eastern Kentucky. She is a staunch advocate for better insurance options to support additional therapies for adopted children that can create costly medical bills that are not covered by insurance companies. She also launched a local Facebook support group called Adoptive Parents of Eastern Kentucky. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) launched the Angels in Adoption Program 16 years ago to celebrate individuals, couples or organizations from across the nation that have made an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes. Left to Right: Keith Lockhart, Congressman Rogers, Angela Lockhart ####
09.18.2014	The Aerospace Industries Association is presenting its prestigious Wings of Liberty Award September 18 to Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (R-Ky.), in recognition of his longtime support of the aerospace and defense industry. Rep. Rogers is Chairman and a 30-year member of the House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for oversight and passage of the annual appropriation bills that provide over $1 trillion annually to the federal government. Rogers has served on the Defense subcomittee, and as chairman of the Transportation, Commerce, Science, Justice and the Homeland Security subcommittees. During his tenure in office, he has been a strong advocate for national and homeland security, civil aviation and space programs. “The Wings of Liberty is our industry’s highest award,” said AIA President and CEO Marion C. Blakey. “It is an honor to present it to Congressman Rogers who has been a tremendous leader of our cause and richly deserving of this year’s award. Through his leadership of Appropriations, he has served the House with great distinction and has always put national security first.” In response to receiving the Wings of Liberty Award, Rep. Rogers, said, “I am honored to receive the Wings of Liberty award from the Aerospace Industries Association. Our nation is recognized as the global leader in defense systems and aerospace engineering due to the daily work of the innovative members of this industry. At a time when terrorist groups are growing in number and boldness around the world, we must continue to maintain the very best national defense efforts, which are heavily supported through aerospace technology. I commend the continued ingenuity and leadership of AIA, allowing this nation to be on the forefront of defense, air travel, and communication.” The Wings of Liberty award is presented annually to a member of Congress who has made significant contributions to help bolster aerospace and national defense. The award, which embodies the spirit of America and the drive to achieve any dream, will be made at a reception on Capitol Hill, one of several events celebrating National Aerospace Week. Past honorees include Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.), Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Rep. Norm Dicks (D-Wash.), and Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii). CONTACT: Keith Mordoff (703) 358-1075 office keith.mordoff@aia-aerospace.org Dan Stohr (703) 358-1078 office dan.stohr@aia-aerospace.org -AIA- News Release 28 9.18.14 Facebook | Flickr | LinkedIn | Twitter | YouTube 1000 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1700, Arlington, VA 22209 (703) 358-1000 www.aia-aerospace.org ________________________________________________________________________________________________ Founded in 1919 shortly after the birth of flight, the Aerospace Industries Association is the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the nation’s leading manufacturers and suppliers of civil, military and business aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aircraft systems, space systems, aircraft engines, homeland and cybersecurity systems, materiel and related components, equipment services and information technology.
09.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds two major job creation packages that passed through the U.S. House on Thursday afternoon. Rogers voted for the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs & More American Jobs Act (H.R. 2) and the Jobs for America Act (H.R. 4) to create and retain jobs across the country, provide tax relief for American families, increase take-home pay, expand the nation's energy infrastructure, promote new technology, and reduce energy bills. "Kentuckians need reliable jobs, tax relief, low energy bills, and relief from the job-killing regulations that have shutdown our coal mines and coal-fired power plants," said Rogers. "These two jobs and energy packages will provide some much-needed relief and empower Kentucky families with more room in their daily budgets, while advancing solutions for businesses to expand and create jobs." Part of the all-of-the-above energy package includes alternatives to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) job-killing greenhouse gas rules for power plants. It directs the EPA to adopt workable standards for new coal-fired power plants, which would put thousands of people in the industry back to work and would ensure affordable energy rates. The two packages combined previously passed legislation to deliver a simplified solution to the Senate for action. ###
09.12.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the Tucker-Guthrie Memorial Airport in Harlan County. The $80,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support an Environmental Study for future acquisition of property to expand the runway. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward preparing the Tucker-Guthrie Memorial Airport for growth and future economic development opportunities in Harlan County.” The FAA grant will provide funding to conduct an Environmental Study and associated surveys for future property acquisition in the Runway Protection Zone for Runway 26. With an expanded runway, the airport will be able to host larger aircrafts. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.12.2014	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the Middlesboro-Bell County Airport. The $452,790 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the land acquisition for approaches, new runway lighting and improvements in airport drainage. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward improving safety at the Middlesboro-Bell County Airport and ensuring it is in top condition for air travel in our region.” The drainage improvements at the airport will facilitate adequate storm water runoff, eliminating dangerous ponding on the airfield. This FAA grant will also fund the acquisition of approximately 1.09 acres of land for the taxiway object free area and obstruction clearance in aeronautical surfaces. It will also support a new runway end identifier lighting system to enhance visibility of the end of the runway for pilots during landing. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.12.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the Wayne County Airport. The $153,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the rehabilitation of the airport's runway. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward improving safety at the Wayne County Airport and ensuring the runway is in top condition for air travel in our region.” The FAA grant will provide funding to design the rehabilitation of the existing runway pavement that is currently deteriorating. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.12.2014	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the Julian Carroll Airport in Breathitt County. The $54,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the rehabilitation of the runway, new lighting and a new wind cone. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward improving safety at the Julian Carroll Airport and ensuring the runway is in top condition for air travel in our region.” The FAA grant will fund the design of the runway rehabilitation to maintain structural integrity of the pavement and minimize debris. It will also replace runway lighting to ensure safe airfield operations. It will also replace the airport's wind sock and segmented circle which are also deteriorating. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.12.2014	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the London-Corbin Airport-Magee Field in Laurel County. The $72,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will remove obstructions in the runway approach. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward improving safety at the London-Corbin Airport.” The FAA grant will provide funding to remove obstructions in approximately 3.5 acres of land in the Runway 06/24 approach surfaces. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.12.2014	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds for improvements at the Lake Cumberland Regional Airport in Pulaski County. The $145,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will remove obstructions in the runway approach. “Investing in our small airports in southern and eastern Kentucky is a key component to transportation safety and economic development opportunities in our region,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward improving safety at the Lake Cumberland Regional Airport.” The FAA grant will provide funding to remove obstructions in the Runway 05/23 approach surfaces. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 90 to 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.09.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) co-sponsored and voted for the Waters of the U.S. Regulatory Overreach Protection Act (H.R. 5078) that passed 262 to 152 in the U.S. House on Tuesday afternoon. The legislation was crafted in response to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' proposal to expand federal authority by redefining "waters of the U.S." under the Clean Water Act. H.R. 5078 will uphold the federal-state partnership to regulate the Nation's waters by preserving existing rights and responsibilities. Rogers submitted the following statement about the bill for the Congressional Record: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of H.R. 5078, the Waters of the U.S. Regulatory Overreach Protection Act. "Over the last five years, we have seen attempt after attempt to add layers of environmental red tape to any economic development that our states, counties, and cities may undertake. The new “Waters of the United States” proposal is no different. With this, the EPA seeks to gain jurisdiction over most of the country by claiming authority to regulate dry beds, ditches, pipes, farmland ponds and anywhere water could conceivably run. They would require local communities, businesses and individuals to navigate the costly and time-consuming process of obtaining additional permits for activities around these waters, making it harder to mine coal, to construct roads and shopping centers, and even to build homes. This is one of the largest federal power grabs we have ever witnessed in this country, and there is no question that the economic impact would be profound. "In my home state of Kentucky, mining permits have ground to a halt and onerous regulations are shuttering power plants, threatening the fossil energy industries that have been the backbone of our energy security for decades. I am dismayed at efforts that this Administration has undertaken with the express purpose of eliminating coal from our nation’s energy supply, despite the fact that this fuel provides a cheap, abundant source of energy that keeps energy costs down and productivity up. With this bill, we stand firm against the latest attempt by the EPA to put up road blocks for those working to create jobs. These efforts are fruitless attempts to legislate through regulation, and the Congress must exercise its prerogative to prevent this kind of bureaucratic overreach that would be crippling for the U.S. economy. H.R. 5078 will uphold the federal-state partnership to regulate the Nation's waters, allowing states to continue regulating certain waters within their individual boundaries, and providing farmers, construction companies, energy suppliers, and manufacturers with much needed certainty as they work to create jobs and grow the economy. "I urge a yes vote on H.R. 5078." ###
09.06.2014	The Mountain Parkway Expansion, the first major extension and widening of a crucial transportation link to Eastern Kentucky in a half century, today received approval of a $24 million federal TIGER grant that will speed construction of a crucial segment in Salyersville. U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers and Gov. Steve Beshear have jointly sought grant opportunities such as the TIGER grant as part of their combined efforts to improve Eastern Kentucky known as the SOAR Initiative (Shaping Our Appalachian Region). U.S. Transportation Sec. Anthony Foxx shared the news of the grant awards, which will be formally announced by USDOT this week. “The widening and expansion of the Mountain Parkway in Eastern Kentucky is much more than a transportation project. It’s a transformation project for an Appalachian region that has been denied access to economic vitality because of inadequate infrastructure and limited mobility,” said Gov. Beshear. “The work to improve Eastern Kentucky is a marathon, but we are excited about the milestones that we continue to cross,” said Rep. Rogers. “There are many more projects on the horizon that will impact other counties in our region, and this announcement builds momentum around the opportunities that are growing through the grassroots efforts of SOAR.” The grant from the federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program will allow construction to begin two years ahead of schedule on a congested 2.4 mile segment that will extend the Mountain Parkway from its easternmost end at U.S. 460 and KY 114 in Salyersville. The current segment is a bottleneck – with more than 80 entrances for restaurants, stores, medical offices and other properties. The expansion will create a safer, wider highway with controlled access points and back roads to maintain local access while improving a corridor for commercial and regional travel between Eastern and Central Kentucky. Kentucky will cover the additional $15 million needed to complete the Salyersville segment, which has an estimated cost of $39 million. Right-of-way acquisition is scheduled to begin by year’s end and pre-construction work will begin next year. Construction is expected to be underway in the first half of 2016. Widening the Road and Narrowing the Gap The Mountain Parkway Expansion, proposed by Gov. Beshear and funded by this TIGER grant and the Kentucky General Assembly, will close the only gap in a 400-mile, four-lane, high-speed corridor for commerce and mobility across Kentucky from Pikeville to Paducah. The 46-mile project will widen 30 miles of the existing parkway from two lanes to four lanes, and will extend the parkway another 16 miles by widening KY 114 from outside Salyersville to Prestonsburg. Construction is expected to begin later this year on the first segment of the project, a parkway widening and interchange improvement project just west of Salyersville. The entire Mountain Parkway Expansion, which is expected to be completed in six to 10 years, has an estimated price tag of $753 million. ###
08.27.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) will join Union College and U.S. Senate Leader Mitch McConnell for a drug abuse education roundtable and a celebration for the college's new book "Facing Addiction in Knox County: It's Our Move," on Tuesday, September 2, 2014 at 2:45 p.m. (EDT) in the Sharp Academic Center on the campus of Union College. The public is invited to attend. To RSVP for the events, for more information or to obtain a copy of the book, call (606) 546-1625. Click here to learn more. WHO: Union College, Congressman Hal Rogers, Senator Mitch McConnell WHAT: Drug Abuse Education Roundtable and Book Release WHEN: Tuesday, September 2, 2014 at 2:45 p.m. (EDT) WHERE: Union College Campus in the Sharp Academic Center located at 310 College Street in Barbourville Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
08.20.2014	Nick Camic, Carlos Cameron & Shannon Rickett SOMERSET, Ky -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) enhances operations for Kentucky and Washington D.C. offices with additional staff, including two new Field Representatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. "With 30 counties spanning some 200 miles, the Fifth Congressional District will certainly benefit from a full staff of three Field Representatives in southern and eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. "It is my hope that we can improve communication between local and federal matters, by enhancing support on the ground for local leaders and families living in our region. With three native Kentuckians of the Fifth District, serving as Field Representatives, the people of our region can be confident that this staff knows and fully understands the issues we face." Carlos Cameron will serve as the new Field Representative for the western portion of the Fifth Congressional District. Cameron began working in the Somerset Office on August 4, 2014 and serves Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties. Cameron, a Jackson County resident, joins the Congressional office after dedicating nine years to Operation UNITE as a Coalition Coordinator. Cameron can be reached in the Somerset office at 606-679-8346. Rogers also welcomes Nick Camic as his new Field Representative for the Kentucky River Area, who is based in the Hazard, Kentucky office. Camic transitioned from Rogers' Washington D.C. office to serve in the Fifth Congressional District on Monday, August 18, 2014. Camic, a Lincoln County native, serves Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry Counties. Camic can be reached in the Hazard office at 606-439-0794. Cameron and Camic will work along-side Field Representative Adam Rice who continues to serve eastern Kentucky in Rogers' Prestonsburg office. Rice, a Johnson County resident, now serves Boyd, Carter, Elliott, Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Rowan and Pike Counties. Rice can be reached in the Prestonsburg office at 606-886-0844. Former Field Representative, Shannon Rickett has transitioned to Rogers' Washington D.C. office to serve as Legislative Assistant. Rickett's work will focus on legislative issues involving agriculture, healthcare and transportation, among others. Rickett, a Corbin native, joined Rogers' office in 2012 after dedicating several years to the National Institute for Hometown Security. Rickett can be reached in the DC office at 202-225-4601. Rogers also promoted Ashley Nichols to Legislative Assistant in his Washington D.C. office. Nichols' work will focus on legislative issues involving energy, environment and defense. Additional DC office staff includes Alex Pinson as the new Legislative Correspondent and Kathryn Kennedy as the new staff assistant. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ### Left to Right: Nick Camic, Carlos Cameron and Shannon Rickett
08.18.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, the McCreary County Water and Sewer District, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at Heritage Hall to break ground on a sewer extension project that will serve nearly 90 homes. The project will extend service from Revelo to Stearns. "Providing clean water and sanitary sewer to families across southern and eastern Kentucky continues to be one of my top priorities," said Rogers. "I'm so proud of the work that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, our Water and Sewer Districts and our Area Development Districts have teamed up to do over the last 17 years with PRIDE." The project is estimated to cost nearly $700,000 with projected completion by August 2016. “I applaud Steve Owens and the McCreary Water District for their commitment to improving the lives of the residents of McCreary County," said Tammie Wilson, CEO of Eastern Kentucky PRIDE. "I look forward to partnering with them and the Corp of Engineers to see this project completed." At the event, Congressman Rogers commended McCreary County volunteers for their efforts during the annual PRIDE Spring Cleanup Month in April. In McCreary County, PRIDE volunteers have cleaned up 51 illegal dumps, cleaned 866 miles of roadway, removed some 10,000 old appliances, collected nearly 30,000 old tires and 6,000 pounds of recycling. In recognition of exemplary volunteer efforts with PRIDE, Rogers presented the McCreary County Girl Scouts with the PRIDE Volunteer of the Month Award. "The McCreary County Girl Scouts are always among the first to volunteer each year for the PRIDE Cumberland Falls Spring Clean-up and the McCreary County U.S. 27 Clean Sweep," said Rogers. "Additionally, they help keep our state parks, the county park, and our Forest Service campgrounds clean. So next time, folks are at the park or the campground, I hope they think about our Girl Scouts before they decide to litter again. I'm so proud of the example they are setting for all generations." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
08.06.2014	A three-day series of community meetings to address healthcare concerns across southern and eastern Kentucky wrapped up in Morehead on Wednesday afternoon. “I’ve learned during this tour that Appalachian Kentucky is ready to stand up to daunting health challenges of heart disease, diabetes, obesity, cancer and drug overdose,” stated CDC Director Tom Frieden, M.D., M.P.H.. “It’s not going to be a short fight, or an easy one, but CDC stands with you and I’m confident that together we can save many lives.” More than 1,000 individuals representing local, state and federal efforts attended the four “Health Impact Series” events as part of the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative. “Dr. Frieden is a champion for healthcare and an innovative leader for change. He has become a good friend of mine in the fight against prescription drug abuse in our region,” said U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05), who then thanked Dr. Frieden “for making this personal house call to our region.” “We could bring every leader in the world to our region, but without you here to implement the new ideas and changes, it is all just talk,” Congressman Rogers reminded those in attendance. “We need to make things happen, and you are the difference makers.” Dental Health Grant During the symposium, Congressman Rogers announced that Morehead State University has been awarded a $500,000 grant from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) to continue the “Appalachian Rural Dental Education Partnership Program” with the University of Kentucky College of Dentistry. Joining Congressman Rogers for the announcement were Kentucky Lt. Governor Jerry Abramson, ARC Federal Co-Chair Earl Gohl, Morehead State University President Dr. Wayne Andrews and Kentucky House Majority Leader Rocky Adkins. "As we know, numerous studies have shown that poor oral health is a serious risk factor for a number of systemic health conditions, in addition to decaying teeth and gum disease. This is especially true for Appalachia's rural counties," said Gohl. "This grant ties in with SOAR's mission to expand job creation, enhance regional opportunity, innovation and identity, improve quality of life, and support those working to achieve these goals in Appalachian Kentucky." “This program promotes the growth of dental careers in Eastern Kentucky and extends outreach into our schools to raise awareness about good oral health,” Rogers said. The state supported the project with a 22% match. "The Cabinet for Public Health set a goal of a 25% reduction in children going untreated for dental decay," said Lt. Gov. Abramson. "This investment will give us a running chance to achieve that goal." “We believe this is the first comprehensive oral health campaign designed for a university campus in the nation,” said Dr. Raynor Mullins, of the Center for Oral Health Research at the University of Kentucky College of Dentistry. “We have a huge opportunity in Kentucky’s ARC region to innovate and to also lead the nation with children’s oral health care reform.” Three other grants were announced during the SOAR Health Impact Series. Including: •$1.5 million from the CDC and ARC to launch the Appalachian Cancer Patient Navigation Project •National Institutes of Health grant to develop the Community Leadership Institute of Kentucky (CLIK) •$1.08 million from the CDC for the "Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention Boost" Health Impact SOAR, launched by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear in the fall of 2013, seeks to expand job creation; enhance regional opportunity, innovation and identity; and improve the quality of life for Appalachian Kentucky. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, this region has a greater prevalence for heart disease (84% higher), diabetes (47% higher) and obesity (26% higher) than the nation’s average. The state’s lung cancer mortality rates are the nation’s highest, at 67% above average. In addition, Kentucky had the third highest mortality rate of prescription drug overdoses in 2010 (23.6 per 100,000), with the number of all drug overdose deaths more than quadrupling since 1999 (4.9 per 100,000), according to a 2013 report by Trust For America’s Health. Nationally the rate has doubled. Common themes in the health discussions included wellness, healthy foods, the smoke-free initiative, a focus on children and coordinated school health, oral health, diabetes/obesity, seniors, the need for mental health assessments and services beginning in early childhood, and the drug epidemic. Dr. Boyd Buser, vice president for health affairs and dean of the University of Pikeville Kentucky College of Osteopathic Medicine, spoke about UPIKE’s success in helping ease the shortage of primary care physicians in rural Kentucky and Appalachia, and the development of additional health professions programs. "Enhancing team-based models of care hold the most hope for improving the life of all Kentuckians," said Dr. Ron Waldridge, past president of the Kentucky Academy of Family Physicians and member of the leadership with KentuckyOne Health Medical Group. “I firmly believe that the answer to the healthcare crisis in Kentucky is going to be revealed when all stakeholders can come to the table and share ideas, much like the SOAR conferences provide.” “We need providers, payors, and communities/churches/employers to place laser-like focus on addressing the patients’ needs,” Waldridge continued. “Lastly, we need patients themselves to be engaged in their own healthcare by becoming more informed consumers who are empowered to make a difference in their own lives.” Wednesday’s symposium – sponsored by Morehead State University and St. Claire Regional Medical Center – also featured a presentation by CDC Deputy Director Dr. Judith Monroe, who received her undergraduate degree from Eastern Kentucky University and went on to practice medicine in another part of the Appalachian region. “We aren’t the type of people who stand by expecting someone else to save us – the people of southern and eastern Kentucky like to pull up our bootstraps and hit the trenches,” Rogers said, cautioning that there is no quick fix. “This is a marathon – in fact, this is the race of our lives,” Rogers continued. “We may not get to see the fruits of our efforts. But, if we endure, our children and grandchildren will live healthier and better than we are living now.” Health Impact Awards Emphasizing “it takes multiple programs and great leadership to pioneer the path for a healthier region,” Congressman Rogers presented four “Health Impact Awards” to celebrate the “great work” in awareness and prevention efforts. Recipients of the award were: • Rural Physician Leadership Program. This program – a collaborative effort of St. Claire Regional Medical Center, Morehead State University, Northeast Area Health Education Center, and UK College of Medicine – prepares young men and women for careers in medicine, ensuring that the best and brightest students are encouraged to utilize their talents in healthcare right here at home. • Gateway Wellness Coalition, which identifies community health needs and implements strategies to address pressing health issues in Bath, Menifee, Morgan and Rowan counties. This collaboration between St. Claire Regional Medical Center, Morehead State University and the Gateway District Health Department has launched programs such as “Walking 4 Wellness,” supporting improvements in the local farmers markets and area walking trails. • Lawrence County Health Department, which launched an innovative awareness and screening project to reduce the rate of colon cancer. They have coordinated more than 600 colonoscopies and processed more than 600 FIT colorectal screening kits statewide, which led to the detection of colon cancer in 40 patients. The health department hopes to conduct 4,000 screenings over the next year. • Dr. Gerald DeMoss, an extraordinary leader in health education and provision in Eastern Kentucky for more than 45 years. DeMoss established Morehead State University’s Space Science Program, one of five baccalaureate space science degrees in the nation, and initiated key grants and contracts that have provided $6.5 million to the institution and service region, including MSU’s joint physicians assistant program with UK. For more information about SOAR visit their website at http://www.soar-ky.org/ ###
08.05.2014	A $1.5 million, five-year project to address cancer and other chronic diseases by promoting screening and prevention in the region was announced Tuesday in Hazard during the SOAR Health Impact Series. Officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and University of Kentucky said the funding will be used to launch the Appalachian Cancer Patient Navigation Project. Patient navigators will serve as advocates for individuals and help connect them with the right services. “Patient navigators can help Kentuckians get screened for cancer – finding it early can save your life,” said CDC Director Tom Freiden, M.D., M.P.H. “By training more patient navigators where they are most needed, this CDC grant can help people in Appalachian areas live longer, healthier, cancer-free lives.” Joining Dr. Frieden for the announcement were UK President Dr. Eli Capilouto; Dr. B. Mark Evers, director of the Markey Cancer Center at UK; Earl F. Gohl, federal co-chair of the ARC; and U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05). Our Commonwealth is only strong if every community is strong," said Capilouto. "And every community will only be strong when every community is healthy." “Better screening means early intervention and saved lives, and we can’t overstate the importance of that,” said Rogers. Community Leadership Institute of Kentucky In addition, thanks to a grant from the National Institutes of Health, UK announced a program to develop the Community Leadership Institute of Kentucky (CLIK). The three-week intensive leadership development program is designed to enhance research and capacity-building competencies in community leaders who play a key role in using data and decision making related to health and healthcare. "Alleviating the personal burdens Kentucky families face requires a shared, community-based lift," said Capilouto. "This type of program exemplifies UK’s commitment to sustainable, community-based approaches to address the most serious challenges of the Commonwealth – challenges that deprive individuals, families and communities of a well-being and quality of life." Each participant’s organization will receive a $1,500 grant for their participation in this competitive program? and completion of their proposed project over a 12-month period. Applications are currently being accepted through August 29 for the first class of 8-10 individuals. Trainings will be held in October and November. For details visit the Center for Clinical and Transitional Science website at www.ccts.uky.edu/ccts/index.php or contact Beth Bowling at beth.bowling@uky.edu or 606-439-3357, ext. 83545. “We owe a great debt of gratitude to the University of Kentucky,” Rogers said. “UK has helped transform the availability of healthcare in the mountains – improving access to specialists, spending thousands of dollars on cancer research and screening projects, and training students who want to come home to practice medicine.” The announcements came during a symposium held at Hazard Community and Technical College, the second “Health Impact Series” event with the CDC as part of the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative. SOAR, launched by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear in the fall of 2013, seeks to expand job creation; enhance regional opportunity, innovation and identity; and improve the quality of life for Kentucky's Appalachian region. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, this region has a greater prevalence for heart disease (84% higher), diabetes (47% higher) and obesity (26% higher) than the nation’s average. The state’s lung cancer mortality rates are the nation’s highest, at 67% above average. “I am thrilled to have such an impressive group of experts in healthcare here this week to focus on our health issues,” Rogers said. “We’re laying out our problems on the table.” “We cannot shape the future of this region without focusing on ways to improve the quality of life we have,” Rogers continued. “If you’ve ever battled cancer or watched someone close to you go down that difficult road, quality of life is basically non-existent.” Tuesday’s symposium, sponsored by Appalachian Regional Healthcare, also featured presentations by Dr. Stephanie Mayfield, commissioner of the Kentucky Cabinet for Public Health; CDC Deputy Director Dr. Judith Monroe, who received her undergraduate degree from Eastern Kentucky University; and a panel discussion of healthcare experts moderated by Dr. Nikki Stone, associate professor of the UK College of Dentistry/Medicine and chair of the SOAR Health Work Group. Through a series of 15 listening sessions this summer, the SOAR Health Work Group “collected lots of innovative strategies for improving health in our region, including many projects that involve re-discovering the healthy benefits of growing our own gardens and cooking together with our families,” Stone said. Common themes in the health discussions included wellness, healthy foods, the smoke-free initiative, a focus on children and coordinated school health, oral health, diabetes/obesity, seniors, the need for mental health assessments and services beginning in early childhood, and the drug epidemic. Kentucky had the third highest mortality rate of prescription drug overdoses in 2010 (23.6 per 100,000), with the number of all drug overdose deaths more than quadrupling since 1999 (4.9 per 100,000), according to a 2013 report by Trust For America’s Health. Nationally the rate has doubled. Dr. Frieden and Congressman Rogers have worked together through Operation UNITE’s National Rx Drug Abuse Summit to combat this public health epidemic, and have teamed up once again for the SOAR Health Impact Series. “Prescription drug abuse is an epidemic in Kentucky,” noted Commissioner Mayfield. “Part of the kyhealthnow mission is to reduce the prevalence of abuse and overdose deaths. This is extremely important for Kentucky, particularly Perry County, which is one of the top six counties in Kentucky for overdose deaths.” “We aren’t the type of people who stand by expecting someone else to save us – the people of southern and eastern Kentucky like to pull up our bootstraps and hit the trenches,” Rogers said, cautioning that there is no quick fix. “This is a marathon – in fact, this is the race of our lives,” Rogers continued. “We may not even get to see the fruits of our efforts. But, if we endure, our children and grandchildren will live healthier and better than we are living now.” Health Impact Awards Emphasizing “it takes multiple programs and great leadership to pioneer the path for a healthier region,” Congressman Rogers presented five “Health Impact Awards” to celebrate the “great work” in awareness and prevention efforts. Recipients of the award were: • Appalachian Regional Healthcare, which created an impressive outreach program to reverse childhood obesity rates. Since 2011, ARH has hosted more than 50 Fitness Fairs for thousands of children. More than a one-day event, however, ARH has a plan to follow the progress of each child annually and provide extra resources when needed. • UK Gill Heart Institute-Appalachian Heart Center, whose commitment to service has helped ARH establish one of the premier cardiology programs in the area, and led to Hazard ARH’s first open-heart surgery in 2005. • Hazard Police Department, which launched an impressive and creative set of fundraisers after one of their own, officer Paul Campbell, was diagnosed with stage 4 colon cancer. In helping their colleague, the police department inspired an entire region with innovative ideas of how they can help others battle cancer, while also raising awareness about early detection. • Kentucky Homeplace, for its “I Do” Campaign, a nurse-led outreach to educate diabetics about their disease. This is important because 31 of the 38 Kentucky Homeplace counties are located in the “National Diabetes Belt,” where 11% or more of adults have been told by a healthcare professional they have diabetes, yet the belt has the lowest number of certified diabetic educators to help individuals live healthy lives. • Knott County Drug Abuse Council. This Operation UNITE community coalition provides drug prevention curriculum to schools and community events, but sponsors drug-free activities for youth. They launched a Drug Court Mentoring Program to mentor children of Drug Court participants, and helps to address health-related issues that addicts face. For more information about SOAR visit their website at http://www.soar-ky.org/ ###
08.05.2014	Kentucky is one of just five awardees in the nation to receive a $1.08 million “Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention Boost” grant from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “Prescription drug overdose is a national epidemic and Kentucky is on the front line,” proclaimed CDC Director Dr. Thomas Frieden, during a visit to Eastern Kentucky Tuesday night. “CDC is committed to working with community partners, state health programs, and U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-5th) to address health disparities and improve the lives of Americans.” The award, provided over a three-year period, targets states “poised to make immediate progress reducing prescription drug overdose” through activities such as leveraging Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, enhancing insurance mechanisms – including strengthening patient review and prescription programs and identifying and implementing effective benefit design strategies – and conducting policy evaluation to understand what works. Kentucky had the third highest mortality rate of prescription drug overdoses in 2010 (23.6 per 100,000), with the number of all drug overdose deaths more than quadrupling since 1999 (4.9 per 100,000), according to a 2013 report by Trust For America’s Health. Nationally the rate has doubled. “Hal Rogers has been calling attention to – and leading the fight against – this terrible epidemic,” Dr. Frieden said. “I’m honored to be with him to advance these important programs to stop the epidemic.” The announcement came during a dinner held at the Ramada Paintsville Hotel and Conference Center, the third “Health Impact Series” event with the CDC as part of the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative. Dr. Frieden and Congressman Rogers have worked together through Operation UNITE’s National Rx Drug Abuse Summit to combat this public health epidemic, and have teamed up once again for the SOAR Health Impact Series. SOAR, launched by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear in the fall of 2013, seeks to expand job creation; enhance regional opportunity, innovation and identity; and improve the quality of life for Appalachian Kentucky. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, this region has a greater prevalence for heart disease (84% higher), diabetes (47% higher) and obesity (26% higher) than the nation’s average. The state’s lung cancer mortality rates are the nation’s highest, at 67% above average. “Many of Eastern Kentucky’s biggest health challenges could be improved – if not altogether reversed – with a little prevention,” said Dr. Stephanie Mayfield, commissioner of the Kentucky Department for Public Health. “Unhealthy habits, are one of the main health concerns facing the people of this region. Many of the associated health concerns could be prevented through healthier choices.” Tuesday’s dinner – sponsored by Highlands Regional Medical Center, St. Joseph-Martin, Paul B. Hall Medical Center, and Operation UNITE – also featured a presentation by CDC Deputy Director Dr. Judith Monroe, who received her undergraduate degree from Eastern Kentucky University and went on to practice medicine in another part of the Appalachian region. “We cannot shape the future of this region without focusing on ways to improve the quality of life we have,” Rogers stated. “If you’ve ever battled cancer or watched someone close to you go down that difficult road, quality of life is basically non-existent.” Through a series of 15 listening sessions this summer, the SOAR Health Work Group “collected lots of innovative strategies for improving health in our region, including many projects that involve re-discovering the healthy benefits of growing our own gardens and cooking together with our families,” said Dr. Nikki Stone, associate professor of the UK College of Dentistry/Medicine and chair of the SOAR Health Work Group. Common themes in the health discussions included wellness, healthy foods, the smoke-free initiative, a focus on children and coordinated school health, oral health, diabetes/obesity, seniors, the need for mental health assessments and services beginning in early childhood, and the drug epidemic. “We aren’t the type of people who stand by expecting someone else to save us – the people of southern and eastern Kentucky like to pull up our bootstraps and hit the trenches,” Rogers said, cautioning that there is no quick fix. “This is a marathon – in fact, this is the race of our lives,” Rogers continued. “We may not even get to see the fruits of our efforts. But, if we endure, our children and grandchildren will live healthier and better than we are living now.” Health Impact Awards Emphasizing “it takes multiple programs and great leadership to pioneer the path for a healthier region,” Congressman Rogers presented six “Health Impact Awards” to celebrate the “great work” in awareness and prevention efforts. Recipients of the award were: • Highlands Center for Autism. Before opening five years ago there was nothing in the region for families dealing with Autism Spectrum Disorder, which affects 1 in 68 children in the United States. It is the only program in Kentucky using Applied Behavior Analysis. • Paul B. Hall Regional Medical Center’s Diabetic Outreach Initiative, which goes the extra mile to advance diabetic education, promoting health lifestyle choices, and offering a wound healing center providing treatment and care for diabetic patients. • Saint Joseph-Martin, which inspired and continues to support the Dental-Oral Program Initiative. Through collaborative efforts with the Floyd County Health Department and Big Sandy Healthcare, several thousand dental screenings have been provided, along with more than 300 free sealants, to students who otherwise couldn’t afford it. • WestCare Kentucky, which is putting families dealing with substance abuse issues back together. In addition to its residential treatment center, WestCare offers a community involvement outreach program, jail recovery program, and homeless shelter. The facility has also been a great partner for Operation UNITE youth programs and the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. • Johnson County Community of Hope, which addresses child abuse and neglect in the region. This grassroots collaborative effort between area providers is sponsored by the Casey Family Foundation. A key project of this initiative was the implementation of a crisis intervention specialist in the Johnson County schools to help mentor at-risk students and provide intensive substance abuse services. • Roy F. Collier Community Center. In 2009, the “Martin County on the Move” initiative was created to help improve the health and wellness of community members. Through grants, the facility has become the “center for fitness” in Martin County by providing essential fitness equipment, wellness education and other programs – such as a 16-week weight loss competition (Operation Slim Down), three 5K walk/runs each year, gymnastics, karate and hiking trails. For more information about SOAR visit their website at http://www.soar-ky.org/ ###
08.04.2014	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Deputy Director Dr. Judith Monroe heard comments and concerns about the high rates of disease and other health-related issues in Eastern Kentucky during a community dinner held Monday night at The Center for Rural Development in Somerset. “Few regions of our nation suffer as much as Appalachian Kentucky from heart disease, diabetes, obesity, cancer or drug overdose – but Kentucky is not alone fighting these epidemics,” Dr. Monroe assured the more than 300 people in attendance. Dr. Monroe joined U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-5th) and Kentucky Cabinet for Public Health Commissioner Dr. Stephanie Mayfield to kick-off of a three-day “house call” to the region. “CDC is here in partnership with community groups, state health workers, and U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers to help create opportunities for better health,” said Dr. Monroe, who received her undergraduate degree from Eastern Kentucky University and went on to practice medicine in another part of the Appalachian region. Dr. Thomas Frieden, CDC director and one of the nation’s foremost public health experts, was called to Washington, D.C., to testify about the Ebola outbreak in West Africa earlier in the day and unable to make it to Somerset. He is expected to join the tour for stops in Hazard, Paintsville and Morehead on Tuesday and Wednesday. Monday’s dinner, sponsored by Lake Cumberland Regional Hospital, was the first “Health Impact Series” event as part of the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative. SOAR, launched by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear in the fall of 2013, seeks to expand job creation; enhance regional opportunity, innovation and identity; and improve the quality of life for Appalachian Kentucky. According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, this region has a greater prevalence for heart disease (84% higher), diabetes (47% higher) and obesity (26% higher) than the nation’s average. The state’s lung cancer mortality rates are the nation’s highest, at 67% above average. “We cannot shape the future of this region without focusing on ways to improve the quality of life we have, and if you’ve ever battled cancer or watched someone close to you go down that difficult road, quality of life is basically non-existent.” Rogers said. “We are here tonight looking for answers as to why our rates of disease are so high.” In addition, Kentucky had the third highest mortality rate of prescription drug overdoses in 2010 (23.6 per 100,000), with the number of all drug overdose deaths more than quadrupling since 1999 (4.9 per 100,000), according to a 2013 report by Trust For America’s Health. Nationally the rate has doubled. Dr. Frieden and Congressman Rogers have worked together through Operation UNITE’s National Rx Drug Abuse Summit to combat this public health epidemic, and have teamed up once again for the SOAR Health Impact Series. “We are extremely fortunate to have Dr. Frieden and Dr. Monroe in Kentucky,” said Commissioner Mayfield. “Their support of healthy lifestyle, increased access to care, and health policy that improves the wellbeing of society falls right in line with what we’ve been doing here in the commonwealth.” “We aren’t the type of people who stand by expecting someone else to save us – the people of southern and eastern Kentucky like to pull up our bootstraps and hit the trenches,” Rogers said, cautioning that there is no quick fix. “This is a marathon – in fact, this is the race of our lives,” Rogers continued. “We may not even get to see the fruits of our efforts. But, if we endure, our children and grandchildren will live healthier and better than we are living now.” Health Impact Awards Emphasizing “it takes multiple programs and great leadership to pioneer the path for a healthier region,” Congressman Rogers presented four “Health Impact Awards” to celebrate the “great work” in awareness and prevention efforts. Recipients of the award were: • Lake Cumberland Friends, Inc., which has helped relieve the extraordinary financial burden from individuals battling cancer and other terminal illnesses for 20 years. • “Pounds Off Pulaski,” a partnership between Lake Cumberland Regional Healthcare and Somerset-Pulaski County Chamber of Commerce launched two years ago that provides a 12-week weight loss challenge utilizing nutrition, exercise and psychology tools. • Baptist Health Corbin, which teams up with the Southern Kentucky Area Health Education Center to host a free annual event, called “Ladies In Red,” for women to learn about the warning signs of heart disease and the importance of prevention. • Dale Kirby, chair of the Pulaski County UNITE Coalition, who “has recruited more people to fight drug abuse than everyone else in this room combined” in addition to running the county’s Court Watch Program and serving as a staff member for the annual National Rx Drug Abuse Summits – all in volunteer roles. For more information about SOAR visit their website at http://www.soar-ky.org/ ###
07.28.2014	SOMERSET, Ky -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers and Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) will host the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Health Impact Series. The three-day tour of Eastern Kentucky will include discussions about the region's high rates of cancer, diabetes, heart disease and obesity. The tour includes stops in Somerset, Hazard, Paintsville and Morehead. Additional speakers include Dr. Eli Capilouto, President of the University of Kentucky; Dr. Stephanie Mayfield Gibson, Commissioner of the Kentucky Cabinet for Public Health; Dr. Judith Monroe, Deputy Director of the CDC; Dr. Nikki Stone, SOAR Health Chair and additional healthcare professionals. Registration is recommended at each event. To RSVP contact Cheryl Keaton at ckeaton@centertech.com or 606-657-3218. SOAR Health Impact Series Monday, August 4th SOMERSET: 6:30 p.m. reception & 7:00 p.m. dinner at the Center for Rural Development - Download the agenda Tuesday, August 5th HAZARD: 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. at the Hazard Community and Technical College - First Federal Center - Download the agenda PAINTSVILLE: 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Ramada Paintsville Hotel and Conference Center - Download the agenda Wednesday, August 6th MOREHEAD: 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. at the Morehead Convention Center in Morehead - Download the agenda MEDIA RESOURCES Click here to download a press release about the events Click here to download a Radio PSA for the Hazard Event Click here to download a Radio PSA for the Paintsville Event About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ####
07.25.2014	SOMERSET, Ky. --Five SOAR working groups will hold listening sessions in Eastern Kentucky July 28-31. The listening sessions are designed to engage public dialogue about the next strategic steps toward Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Each of the organization's ten working groups are holding organizational meetings and public listening sessions this summer to encourage community members to share ideas on how to improve the region. On Thursday, July 31st, the Health Working Group will also have a regular meeting at 2:00 p.m. at the UK Center for Excellence in Rural Health in Hazard. Additionally, the Kentucky Heritage Council hosts the 'Capitalizing on Culture' Conference on August 1-2 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville.Click here for details about the conference, including an agenda. The public is invited to attend all SOAR meetings. For full details and meeting notes, visit the SOAR website athttp://www.soar-ky.org. MONDAY, JULY 28th Agriculture, Community & Regional Foods, Natural Resources Listening Session in Greensburg: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Green County Extension Office, 298 Happyville Rd. in Greensburg Education and Retraining Listening Session in Barbourville: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at Union College in the Ramsey Center, 310 College Street in Barbourville TUESDAY, JULY 29th Health Listening Session in Pikeville: 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. at the Pikeville Medical Center - 2nd Floor Boardroom, 911 S. Bypass Rd. in Pikeville Tourism, Arts and Heritage Listening Session in Columbia: 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. at the Adair County Courthouse, 424 Public Square in Columbia THURSDAY, JULY 31st Health Working Group Meeting in Hazard: 2:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. at the UK Center for Excellence in Rural Health, 750 Morton Blvd. in Hazard Tourism, Arts & Heritage Listening Session in London: 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. at the Kentucky Highlands Innovation Center, 440 Old Whitley Rd. in London Business Incubation Listening Session in Ashland: 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at Ignite Ashland, 1100 Greenup Avenue in Ashland Agriculture, Community & Regional Foods and Natural Resources Listening Session in Monticello: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Wayne County Extension Service, 255 Rolling Hills Blvd. in Monticello FRIDAY, AUG. 1st - SATURDAY, AUG. 2nd CAPITALIZING ON CULTURE CONFERENCE: East Kentucky Expo Center, 126 Main St. in Pikeville Friday, August 1st: 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Saturday, August 2nd: 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. Follow SOAR on Facebook@ShapingOurAppalachianRegionand on Twitter@SOAR_EKYand find in-depth resources for the SOAR initiative online athttp://www.soar-ky.org. ####
07.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) has been selected to receive the National Guard Association of the United States' prestigious Harry S. Truman Award for Distinguished Service in Support of National Defense. Kentucky National Guard Adjutant General Edward Tonini nominated Rogers for the award. The public is invited to attend the presentation in a joint celebration of the "Color Casement Ceremony" at the Monticello National Guard Armory on Saturday, August 2, 2014 at 10:00 a.m. (EDT). The 623rd Field Artillery will encase the colors of Battery C, and unveil the unit's new colors of Battery B. "I am humbled and honored to receive the Truman award at the home of my enlistment, the National Guard armory in Monticello. It's equally exciting to share this momentous occasion in celebration of the unit's new designation as a Battery B," said Rogers. "I invite all of my friends and family in Wayne and surrounding counties to join us in commemorating decades of service and sacrifice of Monticello's bravest sons." In Major General Tonini's nomination, he noted "Congressman Rogers has distinguished himself throughout 57 years of service to the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the Nation. His sustained contributions to the readiness and welfare of the men and women of the National Guard and the U.S. Armed Forces, and to the enhancement of the U.S. military initiatives worldwide, are of exceptional and far-reaching magnitude to the defense and security of the United States in a manner worthy of recognition at the national level." Tonini also recognized Rogers' selection as the 1960 Kentucky Enlisted National Guardsman of the Year for his performance with the unit during regular weekly drills and individual accomplishments. The Truman Award is presented to civilian and military leaders of America. Past recipients include Members of Congress, Governors, Generals and past U.S. Presidents including Nixon, Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Congressman Rogers invites all veterans of Monticello Battery C and surrounding community members to join him in celebrating this milestone. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for passing the Coal Jobs Protection Act (H.R. 5077) on Wednesday afternoon. Congressman Rogers co-sponsored the legislation to rein in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) overreach in the coal permitting process that has halted coal mining operations, leaving nearly 8,000 Eastern Kentucky miners without work since 2008. "The White House has been hell-bent on adding layer after layer of regulatory tape to make it nearly impossible to mine coal in Eastern Kentucky and other parts of the country. Meanwhile, our coal miners continue to wait in unemployment lines, struggling to find new opportunities for comparable income while this federal agency refuses to approve mining permits for the work they are trained to do," said Rogers, a member of the Congressional Coal Caucus. "The act would require the EPA to make a decision within 270 days of a permit proposal. Failure to approve a permit within that time frame, would result in an automatic approval, sending dozens of coal miners back to work. It's time for this agency to be a part of promoting job creation and American energy opportunities, rather than shutting them down." The bill now heads to the full House for consideration. The Coal Jobs Protection Act would: Require the EPA to analyze the impact of a proposed Clean Water Act regulatory act on jobs and economic activity. If the analysis shows that the action would hurt jobs or the state’s economy, the EPA would be required to hold a public hearing in that state in the area most impacted by the proposed action. Restrict the EPA’s ability to second guess or delay a state’s permitting and water quality standards decisions, thus returning authority to the states. Prevent the EPA from dragging its feet in deciding on permits, ending delays that cost Kentucky jobs. Regulators would be given clear deadlines for action on permit applications. Add transparency and efficiency to the regulatory process by stopping the EPA from enacting guidance that has not been open to public notice and comment. Limit the ability of the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to revise the current regulatory definition of fill material under the Clean Water Act by making the current regulatory definition part of the law. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.16.2014	SOMERSET, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced a first-ever SOAR Health Impact Series featuring Dr. Thomas Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with four events in Eastern Kentucky. Dr. Frieden and his team from the CDC will be on hand to discuss the high rates of cancer, diabetes, heart disease and obesity in the region. "While the diagnosis of illnesses like cancer and diabetes are heartbreaking, we know that hope is abundant. We've made great strides in awareness and prevention, but I am eager to hear Dr. Frieden's prescription for Eastern Kentucky and what we can do to help save lives and improve healthy living," said Rogers. "Dr. Frieden not only plans to share information with us, but wants to hear what medical professionals and health coalition leaders are already doing to change lives. This is our chance to speak directly to an international leader in healthcare about the long-time health disparities in our small corner of the world." According to the Kentucky Department for Public Health, the prevalence of heart disease is 84% higher, diabetes is 47% higher and obesity is 26% higher in Kentucky's Appalachian region compared to the U.S. From 2006-2010, the region's lung cancer mortality rates were also the highest in the nation, 67% higher than the national average. Kentucky also has the third highest drug overdose mortality rate in the U.S, an issue that Rogers and Dr. Frieden have worked together to combat during Operation UNITE's National Rx Drug Abuse Summits each year. Rogers and Dr. Frieden are teaming up once again for the SOAR Health Impact Series to find solutions and celebrate local champions for awareness and prevention of the region's other major health challenges. “Partnering with state and local health organizations and officials, such as the SOAR initiative and U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers, helps the CDC to quickly and effectively respond to health threats,” said CDC Director Tom Frieden, M.D., M.P.H. “In working to improve health, we are all in this together. The more effectively we are connected, the more effectively we can address these opportunities. This visit to Kentucky is an important step.” Along with Dr. Frieden will be Dr. Judith Monroe, the Deputy Director of the CDC who has Kentucky roots. Both of her parents were born and raised in Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, and Dr. Monroe received her undergraduate degree from Eastern Kentucky University. She first practiced medicine in the Appalachian region and plans to share her insight during the three-day tour. The Health Impact Series is part of the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative launched by Congressman Rogers and Governor Steve Beshear. The SOAR Health working group is tasked with finding solutions to health problems in the region. The group's chair Dr. Nikki Stone, who is the Mobile Dental Outreach Director for the UK North Fork Valley Community Dental Outreach Program in Hazard, Kentucky will serve as a moderator of several panels during the events with the CDC. "We are so thrilled that Dr. Frieden's visit coincides with the culmination of our summer-long series of 15 SOAR Health listening sessions across the region. We are looking forward to sharing with him the innovative ideas that our own people have suggested to improve the health of Eastern Kentuckians," said Dr. Stone. "These events afford the opportunity to shine a light on Eastern Kentucky and the heavy burden of disease that exists here in this pocket of Appalachia. His advice will help us shape our strategic plan for the future health of our region." All of the events are free to the public, but registration is recommended to reserve meal service. To reserve your free spot at any of the four events, contact Cheryl Keaton at ckeaton@centertech.com or 606-657-3218. SOAR Health Impact Series Monday, August 4th 6:30 p.m. reception & 7:00 p.m. dinner at the Center for Rural Development in Somerset Tuesday, August 5th 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. at the Hazard Community and Technical College - First Federal Center in Hazard 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Ramada Paintsville Hotel and Conference Center in Paintsville Wednesday, August 6th 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. at the Morehead Convention Center in Morehead Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter @RepHalRogers or on Facebook @CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.11.2014	FRANKFORT, Ky. (July 11, 2014) – Governor Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers announced today that two requests for proposals (RFP) are being issued this month on a public-private partnership (P3) project to build critically-needed high-speed broadband Internet access to the farthest reaches of the Commonwealth. Increasing broadband access in eastern Kentucky is a primary focus of the project. An RFP was released today by the Commonwealth of Kentucky in conjunction with the Center for Rural Development seeking private partners to build, operate and maintain a statewide open-access, high-speed broadband network. A complementary RFP seeking equity partners for the project will be released next week. The Commonwealth may establish one contract using either the equity or concessionaire model. The Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway will help Kentucky make tremendous strides toward being a leader both in terms of speed and presence of high-speed Internet connectivity, Gov. Beshear said. “Infrastructure such as roads, sewers, water lines and classrooms are critical to our quality of life and economic vitality,” Gov. Beshear said. “Today, we also have to invest in another kind of infrastructure – the kind that will break down geographic and financial barriers to education and economic development.” “This ‘Super I-Way’ will pave a high-tech future for eastern Kentucky,” said Rep. Rogers. “It will launch our rural region into the global playing field, creating new job opportunities, innovative access to healthcare, enhanced educational opportunities, and much more. We are eager to move forward with this project to help grow eastern Kentucky’s economy.” The initial phase of the project is expected to take two years to build and will include more than 3,000 miles of fiber infrastructure, often referred to as the “middle mile.” Currently, Kentucky ranks 46th in high-speed broadband Internet availability. Nearly a quarter of the Commonwealth’s population – 23 percent – has no access to broadband. “Today, only about half of Kentucky’s households use broadband Internet service, and nearly one-quarter can’t access broadband at all,” Gov. Beshear said. “We’re going to fix that with an ambitious plan to extend broadband access, initially focusing on eastern Kentucky.” The push for reliable, accessible high-speed broadband is one recommendation that emerged from “SOAR,” the “Shaping Our Appalachian Region” initiative that seeks to move Kentucky’s Appalachian region forward. “Much like previous generations’ efforts to build sewer and water systems, the electric grid and paved highways, this broadband initiative will solidify Kentucky’s place in the new global economy,” Rep. Rogers said. “Our investment in it will pay dividends in the years ahead.” The RFP is available online at http://finance.ky.gov/services/eprocurement/pages/default.aspx. Click on the Vendor Self Service link and choose public access. For more information about SOAR, visit http://governor.ky.gov/soar/ and follow SOAR activities on Facebook@ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY. To contact the SOAR office, call 606-444-5127 or 606-437-5127. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ###
07.11.2014	SOMERSET, Ky. -- Several SOAR working groups will hold listening sessions in Eastern Kentucky July 14-17. The listening sessions are designed to engage public dialogue about the next strategic steps toward Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Each of the organization's ten working groups are holding organizational meetings and public listening sessions this summer to encourage community members to share ideas on how to improve the region. The public is invited to attend all SOAR meetings. For full details, visit the new SOAR website at http://www.soar-ky.org. MONDAY, JULY 14th Leadership Development and Youth Engagement Listening Session: 5:00 p.m. at the Buckhorn State Lake Park, 4441 State Highway 1833 in Buckhorn Business Incubation Listening Session: 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Pulaski County Library, 304 South Main Street in Somerset TUESDAY, JULY 15th Tourism, Arts and Heritage Listening Session: 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. at the Paramount Arts Center, 1300 Winchester Ave. in Ashland Business Incubation Listening Session: 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Kentucky Highlands Innovation Center, 440 Old Whitley Rd. in London Health Listening Session: 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. at the Letcher County Extension Agency, 478 Extension Dr. in Whitesburg Education and Retraining Listening Session: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the EKU Manchester Campus - Room 109, 50 University Dr. in Manchester Agriculture, Community & Regional Foods and National Resources Listening Session: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Pike County Extension Service, 148 Trivette Dr. in Pikeville WEDNESDAY, JULY 16TH Health Listening Session: 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. at the UK Center for Rural Health - Room 214, 750 Morton Blvd. in Hazard Regional Collaboration and Identity Listening Session: 6:30 p.m. at the Corbin Technology Center, 222 Corbin Drive in Corbin THURSDAY, JULY 17TH Tourism, Arts and Heritage Listening Session: 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. at Morehead State University - Center for Health, Education & Research (CHER) Room 310, 316 West Second Street in Morehead Agriculture, Community & Regional Foods and Natural Resources Listening Session: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at Natural Bridge State Resort Park, Lodge 2135 Natural Bridge Road in Slade Education and Retraining Listening Session: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Harlan County High School, 4000 U.S. 119 Baxter Street in Harlan The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. Follow SOAR on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY and find in-depth resources for the SOAR initiative online at http://www.soar-ky.org. ####
07.07.2014	PINEVILLE, Ky. (July 7, 2014) – Today, Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers joined the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Executive Committee to announce new investments into the region and new partnerships. Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, announced an investment of $312,000 from the U.S. Economic Development Administration to provide technical assistance in the formation and implementation for the SOAR initiative for job creation and private sector growth in the region. “EDA is pleased to support the collaborative SOAR initiative,” said Williams. “This vital EDA assistance will help SOAR in its mission to help eastern Kentucky capitalize on its strengths to diversify, innovate and implement job-creating diversification strategies.” The EDA investment will support implementation and technical assistance by a consortium of nine Area Development Districts located in the region. Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), announced an investment of more than $1 million to engage 52 full-time AmeriCorps VISTA members to improve the economy and quality of life in eastern Kentucky. Through this investment, AmeriCorps VISTA members will provide more than 100,000 volunteer hours to Eastern Kentucky families and individuals in the areas of job creation and retention, youth engagement, education success, and health and human services over the next year. The VISTAs will recruit and manage volunteers, raise funds, and build the capacity of 16 local nonprofit and education organizations that tackle poverty and expand opportunity in Kentucky’s Appalachian region. “SOAR is a bold and innovative effort to improve the lives of the people of eastern Kentucky, and we are thrilled to join with Congressman Rogers and Gov. Beshear in advancing this important goal through this major investment of human capital through AmeriCorps,” said Spencer. “AmeriCorps members are passionate, dedicated citizens who give a year of their lives to service, and we know they will make a big difference for eastern Kentucky.” Gov. Beshear announced he will promote eastern Kentucky during his upcoming attendance at the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Opportunity Investment Conference in Washington, D.C. July 24. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack created a new export and investment initiative called “Made in Rural America” to help propel the growth of small businesses across rural America. “My time in D.C. is an opportunity to talk about SOAR and how we are using public-private partnerships to change the course of this rural region,” Gov. Beshear said. “The audience will include up to 500 movers and shakers, including major investors, rural business leaders, government officials, economic development experts and other partners. This is a great opportunity to not only spread the word about SOAR but also to plant seeds that, hopefully, lead to future investments.” Congressman Rogers announced SOAR will host a “Health Impact Series” in August featuring Dr. Thomas Frieden, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The tour marks the first time that the Director of the CDC has visited eastern Kentucky. “Our people have long suffered from high rates of cancer, diabetes, heart disease, obesity and other health disparities, so Dr. Frieden decided to make a house call to eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “This is a rare chance to bring a world-renown leader in health care to our doorstep. We will look to Dr. Frieden for help in diagnosing our high risks, as well as his prescription for how we can improve healthy living and mortality rates.” The SOAR Health Impact Series is free and open to the public. · Aug. 4 at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Rural Development · Aug. 5 at 10 a.m. at the Hazard Community and Technical College · Aug. 5 at 5:30 p.m. at the Ramada Paintsville Hotel & Convention Center · Aug. 6 at 10 a.m. at the Morehead Conference Center Space is limited for the SOAR Health Impact Series, but individuals can reserve a seat by contacting Cheryl Keaton at 606-657-3218 or at ckeaton@centertech.com. To learn more about applying to serve as a VISTA member, visit http://my.americorps.gov website and search for TASK. For more information about SOAR, visit http://governor.ky.gov/soar/ and follow SOAR activities on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY. To contact the SOAR office, call 606-444-5127 or 606-437-5127. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ###
07.02.2014	WHO: Members of the SOAR Executive Committee Chairs of the SOAR Working Groups Jay Williams, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Wendy Spencer, CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service WHAT: SOAR Executive Committee Meeting An agenda for the meeting is attached. WHEN: Monday, July 7, 2014, at 11 a.m. Eastern time WHERE: MORE: Pine Mountain State Resort Park 1050 State Park Road Pineville, Kentucky The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges.Visithttp://www.soar-ky.org/for more information. ###
06.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) invites students and parents to join him, Operation UNITE,Ameritox and former UK Wildcat basketball standout Jeff Sheppard for an afternoon basketball camp called Shoot Hoops Not Drugs at Bush Elementary School in London on Monday, June 30th from 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Operation UNITE partnered with Jeff Sheppard to launch the basketball camp initiative in 2010 to provide students with a positive activity during the summer that includes a drug-free, inspirational message. So far, nearly 7,000 students have participated in the camps from 55 Kentucky counties, 16 states, and two foreign countries. "Playing sports is a great way to stay busy and out of trouble," said Congressman Rogers. "While students are having fun at camp, parents can chat with UNITE staff about ways to secure prescription medication, warning signs of drug abuse, and opportunities to get involved with local coalition efforts." WHAT: Shoot Hoops Not Drugs Basketball Camp WHO: Congressman Hal Rogers & former UK Wildcat Jeff Sheppard WHEN: Monday, June 30, 2014, 4:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. EDT WHERE: Bush Elementary School Gymnasium, 1832 East Laurel Road, London, Ky Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
06.20.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) recently presented three students from Somerset Christian School with Congressional Award Silver Medals at his Somerset District Office. Gabrielle Moore, Anna Rogers, and Rebecca Garland earned the Congressional Award Silver Medal status through volunteer efforts and achievement of personal development goals. “These young ladies exemplify the building blocks of the Congressional Award: service to others, initiative and achievement,” said Rogers. “This award program strives to encourage the development of the well-rounded students that colleges and employers are looking for. The Congressional Award program teaches students to set and achieve their goals, to get involved in their local communities, and learn about other cultures. I commend these impressive young ladies for their efforts and I hope that more students across the region will be inspired to follow their example.” The Congressional Award allows for a unique opportunity for young people, ages 14-23, to achieve personally challenging goals that build character and foster community service, personal development and citizenship. The goals of award recipients are set in four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Gabrielle’s volunteer service project included serving as a counselor at Camp UNITE and locally helping with the P31 Community Service Society. Anna coached a softball team for children with special needs and created an organization that delivers birthday cupcakes to underprivileged children at a local elementary school. For Rebecca’s project she worked with young musicians in elementary, middle and high school on vocal control, music theory, and playing instruments. When students achieve the gold medal status, they are invited to Washington, D.C. for a national reception. To learn more about the Congressional Award, visit http://congressionalaward.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. Congressional Award Silver Medalist, Anna Rogers Congressional Award Silver Medalist, Rebecca Garland Congressional Award Silver Medalist, Gabrielle Moore ####
06.20.2014	Several senior members of Congressional Committees with jurisdiction over border and immigration issues today sent a joint letter to President Barack Obama, demanding immediate action from federal agencies on the immigration crisis at the Southwest border. The letter directs specific actions for the Administration to take – using currently available authorities and resources – to help address the massive influx of “Unaccompanied Alien Children” (UAC) into the United States from Central America. The text of the letter follows: June 19, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you know, the number of unaccompanied children and families crossing the Southwest border illegally is skyrocketing. We understand that many of these children are confronted with conflict, discord, and economic strife in their countries. While a partial explanation for this migration surge, we are equally concerned that your Administration’s immigration policies are creating a dangerous incentive for illicit networks to smuggle thousands of children into the United States. The number of undocumented children apprehended by United States Customs and Border Protection in May 2014 increased by 267 percent over the number apprehended in May 2013. During the same period, the number of undocumented adults increased 72 percent. At a rate of $5,000 per child, these criminal smuggling groups earned at least $53,230,000 in May alone. These statistics are startling in their magnitude and illustrate the consequences of improper enforcement of our border and immigration laws. Moreover, the situation could have frightening consequences both from a humanitarian and a national security perspective. Agents working along the Texas border find themselves regularly coming face to face with frightened mothers and children who have endured a grueling trip through Mexico, escorted by smugglers often tied or beholden to drug cartels. Many of these immigrants report being robbed or suffering sexual abuse. Even more worrisome are trend lines that indicate the number of illegal crossings is not decreasing as summer approaches – unlike in previous years. If circumstances do not change, we are concerned many of these children and adults face extremely poor, even life-threatening, physical conditions. These dire circumstances only increase the potential for many of these vulnerable children to be exploited or become victims of human trafficking. To end this dangerous migration, it is essential that the U.S. enforce our immigration laws and create effective and necessary deterrents so that potential illegal immigrants understand that their dream of reaching and being allowed to remain in the U.S. is unrealistic, and it is a virtual certainty they will be repatriated to their home countries. Furthermore, they must understand the risks they are taking to enter the U.S. illegally are far outweighed by the costs – including the cost of human lives and the consequences of violating U.S. immigration laws. Therefore, Mr. President, we urge you to take the following actions immediately: 1) Detain families who are recent border crossers in appropriate shelters near the Southwest border where practical and consistent with current law. 2) Utilize existing expedited immigration proceedings to determine whether these families have arrived in the country illegally. 3) Remove and deport those families who are ineligible to remain in the United States (not eligible for an immigration benefit), including those who make false claims of credible fear. 4) Place family members who are ineligible for immigration relief in expedited removal proceedings where appropriate. 5) Deliver “notices to appear” via post or issue 210 letters (which order recidivists to leave the United States within 30 days) to family members living in the United States illegally and with whom an undocumented child has been reunited. 6) Broadcast public service announcements on U.S.-based, Spanish-speaking television reporting on the deprivations and dangers of crossing from Central America through Mexico to the United States. All these actions comply with the laws of the land, and resources and funding are available to enact them immediately. Further, the fiscal year 2015 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill introduced in the House includes the funding necessary to continue to enforce the laws, providing substantially higher funding levels to compensate for these increased needs – needs that were not addressed in your budget request. In addition, the fiscal year 2015 State and Foreign Operations appropriations bill restores reductions proposed in the budget request to improve economic and security conditions, fight gangs and drug cartels, combat human trafficking, and enhance border security in Mexico and Central America. To determine whether the Southwest border is becoming increasingly vulnerable, the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee requested a briefing from the U.S. Border Patrol on June 17, 2014. Despite this request, the Department of Homeland Security has informed the Committee that such a briefing will be delayed indefinitely. As elected representatives of the American people, we demand that all Committees of jurisdiction be briefed immediately. We will not tolerate the withholding of such important and relevant information from Congress, particularly as the House considers appropriations bills that address border security and other funding needs related to this crisis. Addressing how to repatriate unaccompanied children with responsible government officials in Central America will require substantial cooperation and participation from the countries of origin. Consequently, we, the undersigned Representatives, request that the State Department increase its efforts to work with Central American countries and Mexico to address this influx of unaccompanied children. We expect Department of State officials to accompany the Department of Homeland Security to brief Members on this aspect of the problem. U.S. immigration laws are clear and must be administered appropriately to assure basic fairness to all legal immigrants, to maintain the integrity of the border and our national security, and to deter narco-traffickers, smugglers, and other illicit activities. Mr. President, there is a crisis on the border. We must work together to solve it and urge you to implement the recommendations above. Sincerely, S/ House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers S/ House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter S/ House Commerce, Science, Justice Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf S/ Congressman Tom Cole S/ House Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Jack Kingston S/ House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul cc: The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary of Health and Human Services The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary of Homeland Security #####
06.18.2014	SOMERSET, Ky. -- SOAR committee meetings and listening sessions will be held in Eastern Kentucky June 23-26. The listening sessions are designed to open public dialogue about the next strategic steps toward Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Each of the organization's ten working groups are holding organizational meetings and public listening sessions this summer to encourage community members to share ideas on how to improve the region. Next week, six regional listening sessions are planned to address health, business recruitment, agriculture and regional collaboration and identity. Additionally, the Broadband Working Group will have an organizational meeting at the Center for Rural Development in Somerset on Monday afternoon. The public is invited to attend all SOAR meetings. For full details, visit the new SOAR website at http://www.soar-ky.org. MONDAY, JUNE 23rd Health Working Group Listening Session: 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. at Our Lady of Bellafonte Hospital, 1000 Ashland Ave., 5th Fl. Conference Room in Ashland Broadband Working Group Initial Meeting: 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. at the Center for Rural Development, 2292 S. Hwy. 27 in Somerset Business Recruitment Working Group Pikeville Listening Session: 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. at the City of Pikeville Fire Station Training Center, 104 Chloe Road in Pikeville TUESDAY, JUNE 24th Agriculture, Community & Regional Foods, Natural Resources Working Group Listening Session: 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. at the Montgomery County Extension Service, 106 East Locust St. in Mt. Sterling THURSDAY, JUNE 26th Health Working Group Listening Session: 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. at Union College, 310 College St. in Barbourville Business Recruitment Working Group Paintsville Listening Session: 5:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. ?at the Ramada Inn, 624 James S. Trimble Blvd. in Paintsville Regional Collaboration & Identity and Infrastructure Joint Listening Session: 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. at Gateway Area Development District, 110 County Road 1429 in Morehead The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. Follow SOAR on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY and find in-depth resources for the SOAR initiative online at http://www.soar-ky.org. ####
06.16.2014	SOMERSET, Ky. -- SOAR listening sessions will be held in Eastern Kentucky on June 19th and 20th. The sessions are designed to open public dialogue about the next strategic steps toward Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Each of the organization's ten working groups are holding public listening sessions this summer to encourage community members to share ideas on how to improve the region. On Thursday and Friday, four listening sessions are planned to address tourism, agriculture and health. Additionally, the Tourism Working Group will have an organizational meeting prior to the listening session on Thursday morning. The public is invited to attend. For full details, visit the new SOAR website at http://www.soar-ky.org. THURSDAY, JUNE 19TH SOAR Tourism, Arts and Heritage Working Group: Organizational Meeting: 10:00 a.m. EDT at the Mountain Arts Center, 50 Hal Rogers Drive, Prestonsburg, Kentucky Listening Session: 12:30 p.m. EDT at the Mountain Arts Center, 50 Hal Rogers Drive, Prestonsburg, Kentucky SOAR Agriculture and Natural Resources Working Group Listening Sessions: 6:00 p.m. EDT at the Letcher County Extension Service, 478 Extension Drive, Whitesburg, Kentucky 7:00 p.m. EDT ?at the Lawrence County Extension Service, 249 Industrial Park Road, Louisa, Kentucky FRIDAY, JUNE 20TH SOAR Health Working Group Listening Session: 12:00 p.m. EDT ?at the UK Center of Excellence in Rural Health, Room 214, 750 Morton Blvd. Hazard, Kentucky The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. Follow SOAR on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY and find in-depth resources for the SOAR initiative online at http://www.soar-ky.org. ####
06.12.2014	FRANKFORT, Ky. (June 12, 2014) – A website that supports the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative – a public-private endeavor to improve the overall economy and quality of life for Kentucky’s Appalachia region— is now available for citizens across the Commonwealth to access the latest SOAR news, meeting information and more. The new website, www.soar-ky.org, is a key component of SOAR’s commitment to engage the public and provide transparency in all its efforts. It features several sections with information including a plan of work for 2014, a calendar of upcoming meetings and events, regional success stories and up-to-date news. Also included are descriptions of SOAR working groups, meeting notes and biographies of working group chairs and SOAR’s executive committee. The site highlights many ways for citizens to stay connected with SOAR through social media and places for public input and comments. People will also be able to access SOAR’s ongoing work through archived reports, data, media, and presentations from meetings and events. SOAR working groups will be meeting throughout the summer and the next SOAR joint committee meeting is tentatively scheduled for July. Connect with SOAR on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY. To contact the SOAR office, call 606-444-5127 or 606-437-5127. About the SOAR Initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. ####
06.05.2014	LONDON, Ky -- Today, ?U.S.? Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) visited with local members of D.A.V. Chapter #66 in London to commend them for continued efforts on behalf of local veterans in the region. Rogers recently helped rescue a counseling program for the chapter after they notified him that mental health services had been cut by half. More than 160 veterans from 30 counties receive counseling sessions every week as part of the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) outreach mental health care program. "One in six veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan report symptoms of PTSD in addition to the countless veterans who have been coping with post-war issues for decades. We had to move quickly to restore these weekly counseling sessions," said Rogers. "I commend the leaders at the V.A. Medical Center in Lexington for making this program a priority and working to restore these local weekly meetings for our local heroes." Dr. Keith Pernicano, the new Chief of Mental Health Services at the Lexington V.A. Medical Center, addressed the issue to ensure local veterans' counseling services were not sacrificed by on-going efforts to meet outpatient needs at the Lexington facility. "PTSD accounts for most of the diagnoses for anxiety-related conditions in VA," said Dr. Pernicano. "Our providers are trained in cutting-edge psychotherapies that place VA in a unique position to help Veterans deal with PTSD and improve their overall life functioning. We are committed to getting Veterans the care they need, when and where they need it." Rogers presented the Commander George Adams and Vice Commander J.D. Roark with an American flag that was flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of D.A.V. Chapter #66 for continuing to help their comrades get the help they need. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. Rogers presented U.S. Flag to D.A.V. Commander George Adams (right) and Vice Commander J.D. Roark (left) ###
06.05.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) visited with educators and students from both Corbin Independent and Whitley County School Districts during two events at Corbin High School and Whitley County High School. "Our students continue to prove they can compete with the best when given the opportunity, and I am so proud of the young community-minded leaders that are developing in our school systems through our UNITE and PRIDE Clubs. We need these well-rounded, high caliber students to help shape and develop the future of this region," said Rogers. "Kentucky statistics show we are doing a better job across the region of creating more educational opportunities and career-readiness skills for our students, and it is due to great leadership in school districts like Corbin and Whitley County." Rogers commended local students who have been selected as Rogers Scholars, Rogers Explorers and local seniors who are receiving the Operation UNITE "I Am UNITE" Scholarship award. Twenty-three students from across southern and eastern Kentucky have been selected to receive a $1,500 scholarship from UNITE. Local students include Alisha Kersey from Corbin High School and Kaitlyn Mitchell, a Lighthouse Academy homeschool student. Students from Whitley County High School include Corey Crisologo, Matthew Douglas and James Faulkner. Local Rogers Scholars include MaKenna Thibodeaux from Corbin High School and Ryan Richardson from Williamsburg High School. Rogers Explorers from Corbin Middle School include: Ryan Shackleford, Abbey Norvell, Molli Mulberry, Braden Dickerson and Julianne Devers. Students from Whitley County Middle School include: Anna Grace Zehr, Christian Sharpe andLily Dennis-Bay. Rogers presented Corbin Independent Superintendent Ed McNeel with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for being selected by the Kentucky School Boards Association as the 2014 F.L. Dupree Outstanding Superintendent. Rogers noted McNeel's his vision and efforts to lead Corbin Independent Schools to the top of the state's roster for highly performing school districts. "Striving to be the best is an active part of the culture for the school district and the Corbin community. We work together to establish an environment where every child will experience success in a variety of venues," said McNeel. "The district’s high ranking among Kentucky school district happens because of the dedication and commitment by our students, staff, parents, and community." Rogers also presented long-time Whitley County School Board Member Delmar Mahan with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for being selected by the Kentucky PTA as the 2014 Warren Proudfoot Outstanding School Board Member. Mahan was selected for his leadership in improving the financial status and performance of Whitley County Schools. "Our school district is fortunate to have many students and faculty members who are working hard every day and are motivated to achieve at high levels. Because of their hard work we have a lot of great things taking place in the district," said Mahan. "It is an honor to have Congressman Rogers with us to help recognize some of the students who are making great things happen in the Whitley County School District. Through his vision and the creation of programs such as PRIDE, UNITE and Rogers Scholars, our kids are given more opportunities to earn scholarship money and to make a difference in our community." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. UNITE Scholarship Recipients Kaitlyn Mitchell (left) and Alisha Kersey (right) UNITE Scholarship Recipients Corey Crisologo (left) and James Faulkner (right) Rogers presents Superintendent Ed McNeel with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition Rogers presents Whitley County School Board Member Delmar Mahan with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition ###
05.19.2014	Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers joined the SOAR Executive Committee to launch a summer internship program through the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative, in partnership with Eastern Kentucky University and the University of Kentucky Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues. EKU committed $20,000 to support five interns who will work directly with each of the 10 working group chairs until August. The interns will support each group by communicating progress and discussions in an effort to promote transparency and increase citizen participation in the SOAR initiative. Additionally, a UK graduate student will work directly with communications teams from the offices of the Governor and Congressman to assist with media relations. “It is my hope that this internship will inspire more students to get involved in the SOAR initiative. SOAR is designed to shape the path forward for our region, and it is our young people who will be the long-term beneficiaries of the efforts and decisions we make today,” said U.S. Rep. Rogers. “We appreciate the commitment from EKU and UK to support these students as we steam ahead.” “I cannot think of a better way to further show our commitment to eastern Kentucky than involving our young people who are our future leaders,” Gov. Beshear said. “SOAR is an important initiative to this region, and the more we can communicate and involve all the participants, the greater our success will be.” Also today, Gov. Beshear and U.S. Rep. Rogers met with the executive committee and working group chairs to discuss the structure and bylaws of SOAR, the next steps for the working groups and initiating the search for an executive director to be in place later this year. He or she will organize a second SOAR summit to be held this fall. With an overwhelming response to help shape the future of Kentucky’s Appalachian region, 250 people are now involved in the initiative’s 10 working groups and executive committee. Those individuals are leading discussions focused on the region’s future economic well-being and quality of life. Based on citizen and organizational input, the groups will identify significant opportunities and a long-term vision related to their topics. The working groups’ focus areas include broadband; agriculture, community and regional foods; business recruitment and incubation; education and retraining; and health. Groups also include infrastructure; leadership development and youth engagement; regional collaboration and identity; and tourism, including natural resources, arts and heritage. To help carry the mission forward, East Kentucky Power provided a contribution of $5,000 to support various SOAR meetings and activities this summer. The Kentucky Campus Compact has also committed multiple VISTA volunteers to support SOAR committees, operations and communications for one year, starting in July. The VISTA positions are part of a project called “Toward a Sustainable Kentucky” or TASK. To learn how to become a VISTA member, contact Kristen Hedgebeth at Kristen.hedgebeth@kycompact.org. The next SOAR joint committee meeting is tentatively scheduled for July. For more information about SOAR, visit http://governor.ky.gov/soar/ and follow SOAR activities on Facebook @ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and on Twitter @SOAR_EKY. To contact the SOAR office, call 606-444-5127 or 606-437-5127. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers in late 2013, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack persistent challenges. SOAR Executive Committee Meeting (Left to right: Chuck Fluharty, Interim Executive Director; Gov. Beshear; Congressman Rogers; & Bob Mitchell, executive committee member) Daniel Wilson from Wolfe County SOAR Chair of Agriculture, Community and Regional Foods Working Group Lonnie Lawson from Pulaski County SOAR Chair of Broadband Working Group Jared Arnett from Pike County SOAR Chair of Business Incubation Working Group Michael Cornett from Perry County SOAR Member of Education and Retraining Working Group Dr. Nikki Stone from Perry County SOAR Chair of Health Working Group Sandy Runyon from Pike County SOAR Chair of Regional Collaboration and Identity Working Group Jack Sykes from Pike County SOAR Chair of Infrastructure Working Group Johnathan Gay from Rowan County SOAR Chair of Leadership Development and Youth Engagement #### SOAR Executive Committee Meeting (Left to right: Chuck Fluharty, Interim Executive Director; Gov. Beshear; Congressman Rogers; & Bob Mitchell, executive committee member) Daniel Wilson from Wolfe County SOAR Chair of Agriculture, Community and Regional Foods Working Group Lonnie Lawson from Pulaski County SOAR Chair of Broadband Working Group Jared Arnett from Pike County SOAR Chair of Business Incubation Working Group Michael Cornett from Perry County SOAR Member of Education and Retraining Working Group Dr. Nikki Stone from Perry County SOAR Chair of Health Working Group Sandy Runyon from Pike County SOAR Chair of Regional Collaboration and Identity Working Group Jack Sykes from Pike County SOAR Chair of Infrastructure Working Group Johnathan Gay from Rowan County SOAR Chair of Leadership Development and Youth Engagement ###
05.12.2014	U.S. Representative and Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee Hal Rogers was honored on May 7 for his strong support for U.S. programs that help solve the global safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) crisis. The WASH Advocate award was presented by Bill Boyd, former Rotary International president and Chairman of the Rotary Water and Sanitation Action Group. Chairman Rogers’ leadership has played a significant role in ensuring that the U.S. directs more resources toward WASH, which is among the most effective, efficient, and cross-disciplinary forms of development assistance. “The United States has been a global leader in promoting international development, particularly clean water, and I am proud to play a small role in this enormous undertaking,” said Congressman Rogers. “Together, WASH advocates have fostered incredible partnerships in the field and on the ground in developing counties, making life better for others and building good will for our nation around the globe. I will continue to work with you on our shared goal of promoting access to clean water for every one of our citizens as well.” "U.S. government leadership supports the hard work in the field and helps leverage the successful collaboration between Rotary and USAID and other public-private partnerships,” stated Boyd. “These partnerships help ensure sustainable, lasting progress in providing water, sanitation, and hygiene to those who need it the most.” John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates, noted, “We are honored to present these well-deserved awards. Each of our Republican and Democratic awardees worked hard to save and improve the lives of millions of people through the provision of safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The 2014 WASH Advocate Awards honor their current leadership, and the WASH community looks forward to continuing to work together to save and improve millions more lives over the coming years.” Every year, the Water for the Poor Act brings better WASH access to millions of people across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. It is estimated that every dollar invested in WASH returns $4 in reduced healthcare costs and increased economic productivity. The Water for the Poor Act has made a tangible difference in the world since it was passed in 2005. As a result of USAID investments, 3.8 million people gained improved access to drinking water and 1.9 million improved access to sanitation in FY 2011 alone. ###
05.08.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the House Appropriations Committee's approval of the fiscal year 2015 Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill, which passed on a bipartisan voice vote. The bill funds the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and other related agencies. Rogers hailed additional funding to assist struggling coal communities and to fight drug abuse across the nation. The bill includes $10 million in funding for the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) to assist coal mining communities that are suffering significant coal mining job losses. "I am disappointed that this Administration has not developed a strategic economic development plan to help our families and communities that have been devastated by the loss of good paying jobs in some of our country's most rural regions, like southern and eastern Kentucky where some 8,000 miners have been sent to the unemployment line since 2011," said Rogers who is Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "Therefore, the committee recommended this funding for the EDA to help coal communities with infrastructure investments, broadband, and export opportunities." In total, the legislation contains $51.2 billion in discretionary funding. This is a reduction of $398 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within the bill, funding for law enforcement, national security, public safety initiatives, and programs with economic benefit to the nation are prioritized, while lower-priority programs are reduced. "This bill will also ensure that our drug courts are well-funded, our law enforcement agencies have the tools they need for toxic meth lab cleanups, and it ensures prescription drug monitoring programs across the nation are functional," said Rogers. "It also boosts funding for the DEA to address rapidly changing trends in the prescription drug abuse epidemic. New reports say someone dies from an accidental overdose every 15 minutes, so we must be diligent in our efforts to divert this plague on our families." Specifically, the bill contains $41 million for drug courts, $10 million for meth lab cleanups, and $8 million for prescription drug monitoring programs. It also contains $367 million in DEA prescription drug diversion, which is part of a $41 million dollar boost for the federal agency. “This bill is a truly comprehensive piece of legislation. It supports American innovation and economic development, and preserves the safety and security needed for our nation to prosper. We have also made sure this funding is provided in a responsible and rational way, combing through every line of the budgets for these agencies, rooting out waste and duplication, and trimming unnecessary spending to produce a lean, efficient and effective bill that comes in nearly $400 million below last year,” said Rogers. The legislation will now head to the House floor for consideration. Click here for more information about the CJS House Appropriations bill. ###
05.06.2014	SOMERSET, KY - Today, U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the winners of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. The first place artwork, entitled “#Selfie #Uncentered,” was painted by Reagan Smith, a senior at Corbin High School. Reagan utilized watercolors to create her self-portrait. Her art teacher is Brenda Daniel. Reagan is the daughter of Gwen Lickliter of Corbin, Kentucky. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight talented artists from across the country, and I'm thrilled to have our region represented by such talented students,” said Rogers. “Reagan's artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know it came from southeastern Kentucky.” Reagan's artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building for one year where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. She will also attend a Congressional Art Competition reception for winning artists from across the country on June 25, 2014 in Washington, D.C., and will receive two complimentary airline tickets to attend. Additionally, Reagan is also eligible for an art scholarship of $3,000 per year from the Savannah College of Art and Design in Georgia, where she has already been accepted for enrollment. The second place artwork, entitled "Rise Above It" was drawn by Allissa Moe, a junior at Betsy Layne High School. The artwork is a pencil portrait of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. with his famous "I have a dream" speech written in the background. Allissa darkened the word "Rise" to stand out as a message to the viewer. Her art teacher is Shannon Shepherd. Allissa is the daughter of Thomas and Dorian Moe of Harold, Kentucky. The third place artwork, entitled "Still Life with Vase of Roses" was drawn by Matthew Hackler. The artwork is an intricate ebony pencil drawing of a still life arrangement. Matthew is a Senior at McCreary Central High School. His art teacher is Rose Fey. Matthew is the son of Tonya Hackler of Pine Knot, Kentucky. The second and third place winners will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for their award-winning artwork. To view all of the entries from Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District, visit Rogers' online photo gallery athttp://halrogers.house.gov/photos. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. 2014 Congressional Art Competition Winner Reagan Smith from Corbin High School 2014 Congressional Art Competition 1st Runner-up by Allissa Moe from Betsy Layne High School 2014 Congressional Art Competition 2nd Runner-up by Matthew Hackler from McCreary Central High School ####
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that three non-profit organizations in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District will receive $959,000 in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). These grants will put 120 AmeriCorps members on the ground to serve students in southern and eastern Kentucky schools. AmeriCorps members will tackle some of the toughest problems in the region, including low test scores in reading and math, as well as obesity and drug abuse. “AmeriCorps members are an indispensable resource for nonprofits, communities, and the individuals they serve,” said Congressman Rogers. “AmeriCorps members have helped our eastern Kentucky students improve test scores, make healthier choices about food and exercise, and they have mentored thousands of students from broken homes. I congratulate UNITE, Morehead State University and Kentucky's Teach for America Program for receiving this competitive grant, and thank all those who have answered the call to service by joining AmeriCorps.” UNITE Service Corps (Operation UNITE) will receive $543,400 for 44 AmeriCorps members in Bell, Breathitt, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Laurel, Leslie, Perry, Pike, Rockcastle and Wolfe Counties. MSU Corps (Morehead State University) will receive $379,050 for 30 AmeriCorps members throughout the MSU service region, including Boyd, Lawrence, Morgan and Rowan Counties in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. Kentucky's Teach for America will receive $36,800 for 46 AmeriCorps members in Bell, Breathitt, Floyd, Knox, Leslie, Letcher, Martin, McCreary, Perry, Pike, Rockcastle and Whitley Counties. “AmeriCorps members make a powerful impact on the toughest challenges facing our nation,” said CNCS CEO Wendy Spencer. “Building on Kentucky’s strong tradition of neighbor helping neighbor, AmeriCorps members will improve lives and strengthen communities across the Commonwealth. While they serve others, AmeriCorps members will also expand opportunity for themselves - gaining skills and experience to jumpstart their careers. As we mark the 20th anniversary of AmeriCorps, we salute AmeriCorps members for their dedication, and thank our outstanding partners who make their service possible.” The current year’s AmeriCorps grant cycle was highly competitive, due to the strong demand by organizations seeking AmeriCorps resources. The 2014 competition prioritized investments in economic opportunity, education, veterans and military families, disaster services, and continued a new initiative for governors and mayors. CNCS will provide an additional $667,000 in Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards for the AmeriCorps members funded by these grants. After completing a full term of service, AmeriCorps members receive an award of $5,645 that they can use to pay for college or to pay off student loans. AmeriCorps engages more than 75,000 members in intensive service annually to serve through nonprofit, faith-based, and community organizations at 25,000 locations across the country. These members help communities tackle pressing problems while mobilizing millions of volunteers for the organizations they serve. 2014 marks the 20th anniversary of the AmeriCorps program. Since 1994, more than 830,000 Americans have provided more than one billion hours of service addressing critical challenges from poverty and hunger to disasters and the dropout crisis. AmeriCorps is administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service, a federal agency that engages more than five million Americans in service through AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, the Social Innovation Fund, and the Volunteer Generation Fund, and leads the President's national call to service initiative, United We Serve. For more information, visitwww.NationalService.gov . ####
04.29.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned U.S. Secretary of Treasury Jacob Lew about the Obama Administration's posture towards the coal industry, specifically concerning coal-fired generation in the U.S. and developing countries. Chairman Rogers made the following comments to Secretary Lew during a U.S. House Appropriations Committee budget hearing. "Mr. Secretary, I have some strong issues with the posture the Obama Administration has taken towards coal-fired generation in developing countries, and I simply cannot support many of the policies emerging from the Treasury Department in this respect. Simply put, these policies are bad for domestic industries in America, and they are bad for areas in the developing world in dire need of a reliable, low-cost energy source. To be blunt, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency had thrown up roadblocks at every turn to diminish our domestic producers’ ability to mine coal and burn coal. In my region of Southern and Eastern Kentucky, these regulatory attacks have resulted in some 8,000 miners who have lost their jobs and their livelihoods. Like salt on an open wound, the Treasury Department has now sent a clear message that the United States should no longer be in the business of exporting coal. "Your department issued new rules last year, and now the United States will vote against financing any new coal power plant by the World Bank unless it is in oneof the poorest countries or the project uses carbon capture technologies that are not readily available in the U.S. These policies deny our companies the ability to provide developing countries with more efficient technologies, and they encourage these countries to look for financing from investors with lower environmental standards, such as China. I would even go so far as to say these policies show that this Administration is in denial about the reality of expanding energy access to the poorest nations. For example, I do not understand how the Administration can possibly meet its goal of providing more power for African countries if coal is left out of the equation." Click here to watch the entire hearing or visit http://appropriations.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (Ky-05) applauded the unanimous decision by the U.S. House to pass H.R. 298, allowing for a feasibility study for the Mill Springs Battlefield located in Pulaski and Wayne Counties, to be included in the National Park System. "The Battle of Mill Springs is a source of great pride and interest to the people I serve," said Rogers. "Victory in the Battle of Mill Springs held off the Confederate advance into Kentucky, and laid the groundwork for later Union successes." In the early 1990s, the U.S. Department of Interior classified the site of the Battle of Mill Springs as one of the most endangered battlefields in Kentucky. After years of work preserving the historic site, the Mill Springs Battlefield Association expressed its desire to turn the site over to the National Park Service and the people of the United States for future generations to enjoy. "We have a great number of historical sites, which have been dutifully and faithfully preserved so that new generations can appreciate what this country has been through, and what their forefathers cared for," said Rogers. "The Mill Springs Battlefield is a jewel of this group of sites, and will be an excellent addition to the National Park Service." The bill gives the National Park Service three years to complete the study. It now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. Click the photo to watch Rogers' floor speech about Mill Springs Battlefield ####
04.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers' (Ky-05) message on Friday to attendees at the East Kentucky Leadership Foundation Conference was "plan your work and work your plan." Members of the SOAR: Shaping Our Appalachian Region working groups met for the first time during the two-day conference at The Center for Rural Development in Somerset, Kentucky. Conference leaders reported more than 400 people at the event. "I sense an opportunity, a chance to rethink ourselves and redesign ourselves," said Rogers, Co-Chair of the SOAR Executive Committee with Governor Steve Beshear. "After you get your plan together, we're going to take off our coats, roll up our sleeves and take action." There are eight active working groups to help determine the next steps of the SOAR initiative. Those groups are designed to focus on: business recruitment, business incubation, education and retraining, health, infrastructure, leadership development and youth engagement, regional collaboration and identity, as well as tourism. "Dogs don't bark at parked cars," said Rogers, as he encouraged working group members to think big without fear of criticism. "My special hope is for us to develop the dark fiber and bring this high-speed, high-capacity broadband to the far reaches of east Kentucky," he continued. "This one component will connect us to the rest of the world. Companies are looking for access and good work ethic, and we will have both." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. Rogers Speaks at E.Ky. Leadership Foundation Conference #####
04.25.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has extended the deadline for high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to participate in the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The new deadline is Wednesday, April 30 at 5:00 p.m. (EDT). The winning artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. The artist of the winning piece from the Fifth Congressional District will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D.C. for an annual awards ceremony and may become eligible for artistic scholarships for college. "I enjoy walking through the long hallway where all of the artwork is displayed from each state, and I take great pride in showing off the artwork from the Fifth District of Kentucky," said Rogers. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. For complete guidelines, visit Congressional Art Competition Guidelines or halrogers.house.gov. Artists should submit their work to Rogers' Congressional District Offices. The top three district winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard District Offices and a winner will be chosen from those. Students who place second and third place will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for their award-winning artwork. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the district offices indicated by county by April 30, 2014: Prestonsburg District Office (Boyd, Carter, Floyd, Elliott, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan Counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry counties) 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here from more information about the Congressional Art Competition. Click here to download the student release form. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ####
04.24.2014	At the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (R-KY) joined four members of Congress to discuss efforts in the fight against the prescription drug abuse epidemic in the U.S. and to examine what more needs to be done at the federal level. Congressional panelists included U.S. Representatives Tom Price (R-GA), Bill Keating (D-MA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), and Nick Rahall (D-WV) with moderator Steve Pasierb, President and CEO of The Partnership at Drugfree.org. "Twenty-one people will die before we leave this conference -- 21 moms, dads, sons or daughters," said Congressman Rogers who cosponsored the Act to Ban Zohydro. "It is incumbent upon each and every one of us to do more to stop this madness." Congressmen Rogers and Rahall serve as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Congress on Prescription Drug Abuse. "We see similar problems across state lines with prescription drug abuse, especially between my home state of West Virginia and neighboring Kentucky," said Rahall. "And here at his summit, we can collaborate on effective solutions and policies to enhance our efforts across state lines." Congressmen Keating and Lynch shared growing efforts in their home state of Massachusetts where more drug counselors are being placed into both private and public middle schools to help educate students about addiction before they reach high school. "We need to focus on education," said Congressman Lynch. "We can spend a dollar in prevention for one hundred in the cure." "We know medication is available to relieve pain, but we need to remember the pain that doesn't go away," said Congressman Keating who sponsored the STOPP ACT. "Death, divorce and tension at home - that's the real pain. That's why we are committed to this fight and that's the pain we have to treat in this country right now." Georgia's Congressman Price is also a physician and explained how the country needs to be more creative about helping doctors in the fight. "Doctors are precluded from reporting bad actors due to the threat of anti-trust lawsuits," said Dr. Price. "Our country has made some progress, but we've also done some bad things. Allowing Zohydro to go to market is one, medical marijuana is another. It's important that we charge Republicans and Democrats - all our leaders - to reverse this direction." To learn more about the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. #####
04.21.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) continues his staunch efforts to curb the prescription drug abuse epidemic in the U.S. by teaming up with Operation UNITE, celebrities and national leaders at the 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia this week. This is the third year that the non-profit organization based in rural southeastern Kentucky has hosted this national conference, and with an estimated 1,100 individuals registered to attend, the event is on par to be the largest to date. "Across the U.S., someone dies from a prescription drug overdose every 15 minutes and this has to stop. It isn't just happening in rural communities, it is a nationwide epidemic," said Rogers. "I applaud UNITE for leading the national discussion and bringing together, what is now, the largest collection of cross-discipline professionals in the country to share important information about drug trends, challenges in our schools and businesses, potential policy changes and solutions that can be duplicated in any community." The National Rx Drug Abuse Summit will be held April 22-24 at the Downtown Atlanta Marriott Marquis in Atlanta, Georgia. Keynote speakers include actress Melanie Griffith; U.S. Representatives Hal Rogers (R-KY), Bill Keating (D-MA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Tom Price (R-GA), Nick Rahall (D-WV) and former Congresswoman Mary Bono; Governors Steve Beshear (D-KY) and Nathan Deal (R-GA); Michael Botticelli, Acting Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP); Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH); Dr. Margaret Hamburg, Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA); Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC); Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz, Chief Medical Officer of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA); Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institutes on Drug Abuse (NIDA); State Attorneys General Jack Conway (D-KY), Sam Olens (R-GA), and Greg Zoeller (R-IN). Tonight, Rx Summit attendees will have the opportunity to join Melissa Fitzgerald, former ?The West Wing ??actress and Senior Director of Justice for Vets; former U.S. Senator Max Cleland; and U.S. Army Sgt. Tommy Rieman for a special movie presentation for the acclaimed documentary Halfway Home - The Toughest Battle is Coming Home?. After the movie, there will be an open discussion about the struggles that many military veterans face when they return home. On Wednesday at 12:30 p.m., Rogers will join Melanie Griffith, Dr. Tom Frieden and members of the Congressional delegation for a press conference about the prescription drug abuse epidemic. For more information about the conference, visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org or join the discussion this week on social media @RxSummit #RxSummit. You can also download the event's mobile app at http://eventmobi.com/rxsummit.
04.17.2014	As the work of the “Shaping Our Appalachian Region”, or SOAR, initiative moves forward, citizens are invited to attend next week’s annual East Kentucky Leadership Conference in Somerset to take part in one of ten SOAR working groups. This conference will mark the first formal meetings of these working groups, which are tasked with leading large-scale discussions throughout southern and eastern Kentucky on topics related to the region’s economic future and quality of life. These ‘listening sessions’ – to take place in the spring and summer of 2014 – will be open to businesses, local governments, organizations, and all interested citizens. The information collected during these sessions will be translated into detailed strategies for moving the region forward. Together, the strategies will compose the SOAR program of work to be presented at a regional summit in November. “The SOAR working groups are our boots on the ground in this effort to revitalize and shape the future we want to enjoy in eastern Kentucky,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “If your passion and expertise is tourism, we need your talents in that working group. If you are skilled in economic development or education, we need you to share your wisdom with those groups. We are calling on individuals from across the region who are ready to take action to help lead this initiative forward.” “Since our huge SOAR launch in December, we have worked to maintain the momentum and interest we have seen in helping this region grow and thrive,” said Governor Steve Beshear. “These ten working groups will continue to gather information and ideas, meeting with the citizens of the region over the coming months to make sure our combined efforts truly reflect the desires and recommendations of the people who live here. We cannot waste a moment, and I strongly encourage anyone with an interest in the well-being of this vital region to join us in Somerset for these first meetings.” Anyone can attend the working group meetings at no cost. While a few of the working groups have already met their capacity for formal membership, all meetings will be public and citizens are invited to attend those meetings. Working group meetings will be held on Thursday, April 24 from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. SOAR working groups and their chairs include: Agriculture/Community/Regional Foods: Daniel Wilson, Wolfe County extension agent for agriculture and natural resources Broadband: Lonnie Lawson, Somerset, president and CEO, The Center for Rural Development Business Recruitment: Brad Hall, external affairs manager, AEP Kentucky Power Company, Pikeville; and Rodney Hitch, economic development manager, East Kentucky Power, Winchester. Business Incubation: Jared Arnett, Pikeville, president and CEO, Southeast Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Education and Retraining: Jeff Whitehead, Hazard, executive director of the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program Health: Dr. Nikki Stone, Hazard, dental director/faculty, UK June Buchanan Clinic Infrastructure: Jack Sykes, Pikeville, chairman of the board, Summit Engineering Leadership Development and Youth Engagement: Jonathan Gay, Morehead, executive director of Morehead State University Innovation and Commercialization Center Regional Collaboration and Identity: Sandy Runyon, Prestonsburg, executive director of the Big Sandy Area Development District Tourism, including Natural Resources, Arts & Heritage: Phil Osborne, Lexington, president of Osborne and Associates How to Participate in the Working Groups The working groups are open to businesses, local governments, organizations, and all interested citizens. The information collected during these sessions will be translated into detailed strategies for moving the region forward. Together, the strategies will compose the SOAR program of work to be presented at a regional summit in November 2014. Although participation in the working groups is free, you MUST register to attend. Please visit http://crdev.us/P3KykN to register to attend. For more information about the working groups or to inquire about membership, contact the SOAR office at 606-444-5127 or 606-437-5127. About the East Kentucky Leadership Conference In addition to the SOAR meetings at The Center, individuals are also invited to register and attend the East Kentucky Leadership Conference (EKLC). The two-day statewide conference will be held April 24-25 at The Center for Rural Development in Somerset. The Conference is designed to bring together leaders and community members from all walks of life and throughout eastern Kentucky to discuss issues important to the region, share ideas and devise solutions to problems that have kept the region from reaching its fullest potential. The conference theme, “Transforming Crisis into Opportunity”, will build upon the SOAR initiative, and will offer participants a unique opportunity to discover and develop creative solutions to problems in the region. This year, the conference features guest speakers including Congressman Hal Rogers, Governor Steve Beshear, and David C. Wilhelm, Chief Strategy Officer at Hecate Energy. Conference sessions will focus on entrepreneurship, youth engagement, work ready communities, tourism, K12 education, next generation technology and more. Register online by visiting http://www.eklf.org/ or call The Center at 606-677-6000. About the SOAR initiative The SOAR initiative was launched by Gov. Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers late last year, after a stunning downturn in the coal market exacerbated historic challenges in Eastern Kentucky related to unemployment and poverty. More than 1,700 Kentuckians attended a one-day SOAR summit in Pikeville in December. SOAR is intended to help the region develop and put into action new locally-oriented strategies to attack those persistent challenges. ###
04.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Hal Rogers met with Colombian President Santos and other Colombian officials this week to discuss joint efforts to battle the spread of illegal narcotics. The U.S. and Colombia have a partnership that allows the two countries to work closely together to fight the drug trade -- and the organized crime and terrorist groups that use billions of dollars from the sale of illegal narcotics to fund their organizations. As part of this partnership, the U.S. assists in training and equipping Colombian security forces, as well as other security forces in the region and around the world to help eradicate coca fields, disrupt supply lines, and seize drug shipments. Congressman Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, directs funds for these critical activities in the annual budget process. "In Southeast Kentucky, the scourge of illegal drug use has decimated lives and families. We've lost nearly an entire generation to drug overdoses, leaving many children to be raised by someone other than their parents. The work our military and U.S. Officials do on the ground in cooperation with Colombia has stopped literally tons of cocaine, weapons, and other illegal goods from spreading into Kentucky, our nation and around the world," Rogers said. "Once these drugs make it into our borders, it costs billions of tax dollars to track the supply, seize the narcotics, and prosecute criminal cases. Working side by side with the Colombians, we can stop these drugs close to their source, resulting in huge savings in both dollars and human life, and increasing the security of both nations," Rogers said. Rogers, President Santos, and other Colombian officials also discussed ways to increase trade between the U.S. and Colombia to boost economic growth and make both countries more prosperous. "We have a great partner in Colombia and they are fighting vigilantly to stop illegal drugs and other criminal activities that do so much harm to their country and ours. The U.S. programs that assist them in these efforts are critically important, and are already reaping huge benefits for both countries and the region," Rogers said. Rogers examining coca plants used for training with LTC Tunjano of the Colombian National Police ####
04.10.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Director Charles Samuels, Jr. about the agency's budget request for Fiscal Year 2015 during a hearing with the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, of which Rogers serves as Chairman. BOP's budget request for Fiscal Year 2015 totals $6.8 billion for salaries and expenses, and $90 million for its building and facilities account, constituting essentially flat funding. "At the end of Fiscal Year 2013, a quarter of our medium security inmates and 85% of our low security inmates were triple bunked. Considering that eight of every ten medium security inmates has a history of violence, this creates some very serious questions about the safety of the BOP's staff and other inmates," said Rogers. "In the next five years, we expect the prison population to increase by 8% to over 234,000, so I am looking forward to discussing with you the Bureau's strategy moving forward." Rogers praised the dedication of public servants in southern and eastern Kentucky who work at USP McCreary, USP Big Sandy, FCI Manchester and FCI Ashland. "Their jobs are difficult and import," said Rogers. "We owe it to all of these men and women to ensure that when they leave their homes and their families every morning, they are leaving for a workplace that is safe and secure. I tip my hat to them for their hard work." Rogers encouraged the BOP to include funding for future prisons in its budget request to help meet the projected increase in prison population. Click here to watch the entire BOP budget hearing. *NOTE: Rogers' comments begin at 12:40. ###
04.04.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) has utilized much of his time on Capitol Hill over the last two weeks to push for appropriate funding, action and clarity in the fight against drug abuse. Rogers addressed national issues relating to the powerful painkiller Zohydro, increases in heroin abuse, and decreasing marijuana prosecutions. In a budget hearing on Wednesday with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), U.S. House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rogers commended current efforts to curb prescription drug abuse, noting that Kentucky overdose deaths plateaued in 2012 for the first time in a decade. However, Rogers also asserted his concern for the rapid increase in heroin abuse in Kentucky. "Though we have made some meaningful progress in beating back on prescription drug abuse and misuse, we have seen deaths related to heroin increase by 450% in Kentucky," said Rogers. "I know that you have been seeing similar trends on the national scale, and this uptick in heroin abuse is incredibly alarming." Rogers also noted his concern for the nation's marijuana policies. "This Administration has completely abdicated one of its chief responsibilities under the Controlled Substances Act," said Rogers. "The Department of Justice is turning a blind eye to state laws legalizing a Schedule I drug and instructing federal prosecutors to deemphasize marijuana prosecutions. This is simply not acceptable." During budget hearings with Attorney General Eric Holder today and also last week with Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Dr. Margaret Hamburg, Rogers shifted his attention to the FDA's recent approval of Zohydro Extended Release (ER), a powerful new pure-hydrocodone painkiller that does not utilize abuse deterrent technologies to help prevent abuse. "It isn't a silver bullet, but these abuse deterrent technologies have absolutely got to be an arrow in our quiver, and the FDA is sending the wrong message to the industry by approving Zohydro without it," said Rogers. "It is removing whatever incentive these companies had from a business perspective to make the necessary investments in this evolving technology." Also last week, in a joint letter with U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Rogers requested Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General Daniel Levinson to examine the relationship between industry and the FDA in facilitating the approval of Zohydro at the expense of public health and consumer safety. Zohydro ER contains five to ten times more hydrocodone than any drug currently available on the market. It was approved by the FDA in the fall, despite a FDA advisory committee's vote of 11-2 against it. “This drug manufacturer is essentially getting a pass. So, we're asking the Inspector General to examine the relationship between the maker of Zohydro and the FDA," said Rogers. "We want to ensure that patients are protected against dubious ethical involvement of corporate pharmaceutical interests and we believe IG Levinson can bring transparency to the situation." Rogers also noted that many of these same issues will be highlighted during discussions at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia set for April 22-24, which is hosted by the non-profit organization, Operation UNITE. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. Click here to read Rogers' opening statement in the FY 2015 Budget Hearing with DEA Administrator Michele Leonhard and NIDA Director Dr. Nora Volkow. Click here to watch the budget hearing with AG Eric Holder. *MEDIA NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 18:00. Click here to watch the budget hearing with FDA Commissioner Dr. Margaret Hamburg. *MEDIA NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 53:40. Click here to read the letter to Inspector General Daniel Levinson. Click to view FDA budget hearing #####
04.04.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development's proposed budget for fiscal year 2015 during a budget hearing with the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on which he serves as chairman. Specifically, Chairman Rogers asserted his concern for proposed cuts to Rural Housing programs, like the Section 502 Direct Loan and Section 523 Mutual and Self Help Housing programs. "We know the game the administration is playing: cut funding for useful programs in order to make room for new spending and create the illusion of budget savings," said Rogers. "But choosing to cut from these rural programs time and again shows lack of respect for our rural communities and the constituents who have made these programs successful." Rogers shared an example of how the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation, located in London, Kentucky was able to provide financial counseling and guidance for a victim of extreme domestic abuse. The woman was approved for a Section 502 Direct Loan, and with the Self-Help Housing program, she was able to build a home for thousands less than it would have cost to hire a contractor. "Today, that woman and her daughter are living in a home that she can afford," said Rogers. "Without the Self-Help Housing program and Section 502 Direct Loans, she would not have been able to have the benefits of homeownership and the clean slate that opportunity afforded her." Two other Kentucky organizations, Frontier Housing and the Federation of Appalachian Housing Enterprises (FAHE), have participated in USDA's demonstration program that not only helps low-income rural families become homeowners, but has significantly reduced the amount of time it takes for USDA to process its loan applications. "I hope that you can begin to support these programs with a renewed emphasis rather than cutting them to make way for a wish list of new spending," said Rogers. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. Watch the USDA-RD Budget Hearing. *MEDIA NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins at 9:20. Rogers' opening statement is available here. Chairman Rogers questions USDA-RD Proposed Cuts to Rural Housing Programs ###
03.31.2014	HAZARD, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Friday, Rogers delivered more than 100 books to the Perry County Public Library in Hazard. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rogers presented Perry County Public Library Director, Elaine Couch with several boxes of literature. "The Perry County Library is a wonderful resource for the people in this community. I enjoyed telling Congressman Rogers about all of our programs and how much this facility is being used now," said Couch. "The books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has collected books for West Liberty Elementary School and public libraries in Harlan, Knott, Lee, Lincoln, Magoffin, McCreary, Owsley, Perry and Pulaski Counties. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. Rogers presents books from the Library of Congress to Perry County Library Director Elaine Couch ###
03.28.2014	HAZARD, KY -- ?Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined Operation UNITE at the Perry County Public Library in Hazard, Kentucky to commend Kentucky River Properties, LLC for donating $100,000 to help pay for substance abuse treatment vouchers for low-income individuals living in Perry, Knott, Leslie and Letcher Counties who otherwise couldn't afford treatment. The funding also supports local Drug Court programs. "Our friends at Kentucky River Properties decided to pioneer a bold new avenue to change the lives of their co-workers, employees, families, friends and neighbors," said Rogers. "Today, five people will be taken off of treatment facility waiting waiting lists and five families will begin to transform. By the end of the year, some 20 people could be completing a recovery program, thanks to this donation." The gift is the fifth donation of the half million dollars pledged to the UNITE Foundation by Kentucky River Properties five years ago. "We are pleased to offer this donation to continue the great work of UNITE and help change the lives of people in our region," said Fred Parker, President of Kentucky River Properties, LLC. "At UNITE, we are encouraged through partnerships with companies like Kentucky River Properties, who not only talk about the need for change, but take incredible action to give hope to the people of this region," said Dan Smoot, President of Operation UNITE. A graduate of the Leslie County Drug Court Program, Gary Douglas now works for the program, helping others on the road to recovery who will benefit from the donation. "I have a real appreciation for what UNITE and the Drug Courts have done in Kentucky, because I know what it's like to live in that misery and how hard it is to get out of it," said Douglas. "Without those programs, I would likely not even be here to talk to you today." Representing the Administrative Office of the Courts, Connie Payne, who also serves on the Operation UNITE Board of Directors said the funding offers unique support that Drug Court programs in other parts of the state are unable to provide. "We couldn't put clothes on their backs or help them get the school supplies they need without this support," said Payne. "You have helped us remove many barriers for people in our programs." Rogers also honored the Chief Circuit Judge for Perry County, the Honorable Bill Engle who started the Perry County Adult Drug Court Program in 2005. Since then, some 60 graduates have successfully completed the program in Perry County. Engle recently announced his retirement and Rogers presented him with a Congressional Tribute that has been recorded in the U.S. Congressional Record to commemorate the impact he has made in the Kentucky River area. "Judge Bill Engle has been a champion for Drug Courts and curbing this horrible tide of prescription drug abuse plaguing our region," said Rogers. "He has undoubtedly transformed the lives of thousands of people in eastern Kentucky." ### Fred Parker speaks about the Ky River Properties' donation Rogers presents Judge Engle with Congressional Tribute Ky River Properties Donates $100,000 to UNITE for Treatment
03.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined local officials and leaders from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) at the Knox County Hospital in Barbourville to announce a $23 million loan to sustain the hospital and secure the jobs it provides. "This loan confirms to the 250 employees at the Knox County Hospital that their jobs are secure," said Rogers. "And it ensures access to the quality health care that the people of this community need and deserve." USDA Rural Housing Service Administrator Tony Hernandez said this was his first project since recently accepting his new role with the federal agency. "USDA is firmly committed to working side-by-side with the residents and community leaders of eastern Kentucky to improve the overall quality of life and economic opportunities of the region,” said Rural Housing Service Administrator Tony Hernandez. "Today’s announcements will result in greater access to quality health care and save local jobs important to residents and the economies of several eastern Kentucky counties." The low-interest USDA Rural Development loan will be used by the Knox County Hospital District to keep the hospital operational. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. Rogers Announces Aid for Knox County Hospital ###
03.28.2014	BARBOURVILLE, KY -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) commended Knox County Central High School Senior, Tanner Parsons on accepting an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. "I am so proud of Tanner! He earned not one, but two military academy appointments. Both the Naval Academy and West Point offered this young leader a spot at their prestigious academies," said Rogers. "Tanner is an excellent student and disciplined leader. He serves as Battalion Commander of the Knox Central High School Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps and I have no doubt that he will make us proud in the Naval Academy." Each year, Congressman Rogers has the opportunity to nominate a limited number of students for a highly coveted spot at our nation's military academies. "Anytime a student tells me they are interested in one of the military academy nominations, I tell them three things are important: grades, grades, grades," said Rogers. For more information about applying for a military academy appointment, contact Congressman Rogers' Somerset District office at 606-679-8346 or visit his website at http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. Rogers commends Naval Academy Appointee Tanner Parsons ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) pledged to halt the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) newly proposed rule to expand the definition of navigable streams to include "seasonal or rain-dependent" streams during a budget hearing with the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies. On Tuesday, the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers filed the rule for a 90-day public comment period. "Every hollow and valley in my region has some sort of a stream running through it, sometimes dry or intermittent, and those will be under your jurisdiction," said Rogers, who serves as Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy served as a witness during the budget hearing. This rule comes on top of newly proposed greenhouse gas standards for coal-fired power plants that Rogers said the EPA knows are impossible to meet. "By creating this new definition, the administration is again striking at Kentucky and other economies and workforces," said Rogers. "The nation needs this inexpensive electricity that comes from burning coal. Nothing else can produce the power that is already in place by burning coal. so whether you like it or not, and I know you don't, you are going to have to use coal to keep your lights on." On Wednesday, Chairman Rogers also questioned U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy about the agency's lack of information for executing the new water rule and associated cost estimates. He warned there wouldn't be a penny for the program without knowing the cost and more implementation details. In his closing comments to McCarthy, Rogers said, "you're grinding to a halt, the economic engine of this country." Click to watch the EPA budget hearing *MEDIA NOTE: Rogers' opening statement begins in the clip at 14:40. ###
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) questioned the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy about the agency’s newly proposed rule to expand its jurisdiction of U.S. waterways to include “seasonal or rain-dependent” streams. The Corps and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) filed the rule on March 25, 2014 for a 90-day public comment period. “This new rule would be another shot to our coal industry, making it nearly impossible for a surface mine to acquire a 404 permit," said Rogers. "We’ve already lost nearly 8,000 jobs in eastern Kentucky alone over the last two years, and this administration continues to demonstrate a lack of compassion for people trying to make a living in our coalfields across the country." Assistant Secretary Darcy and Lt. General Thomas Bostick were witnesses during the fiscal year 2015 budget hearing before the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, of which Rogers serves as Chairman. “Assumedly, if you have this rule in place, you’re going to be the one that decides whether or not we can build a road across a dry bed,” Rogers clarified. “In order to build a street or extend a runway, every county, city, and state in the country would have to travel 3,000 miles here to plead with you to let them build a road across that dry bed.” Rogers requested cost estimates from the Corps for mapping the newly defined “seasonal or rain-dependent” streams, along with determining property owners; However, Corps officials did not have any cost estimates to provide to the Committee. “In my district, I know we have thousands of little creeks and streams, some of which only fill up when it rains. Nationwide, they’re in the tens of thousands,” said Rogers. “And to have the Corps and the EPA assert control over two-thirds of the country with no consideration of what it’s going to cost is astounding to me.” When the Corps also failed to define the penalties that would be imposed in the event of a failure to acquire a permit, Rogers said, “strike two.” “There will not be a penny for that program until we know the cost and more details,” asserted Rogers. “That rule is going to have a tough time up here and getting money to enforce it is going to have an even tougher time.” To view the hearing, click the photo below or visit: http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/45378927. *MEDIA NOTE: Rogers' questioning begins at 1:31:30 in the video clip. ###
03.26.2014	Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Harold Rogers (R-KY) and Stephen Lynch (D-MA), today questioned the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)’s approval of a potentially dangerous and powerful new opioid despite the risks that it presents to public health. In a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General Daniel Levinson, they ask him to examine the relationship between industry and the FDA in facilitating the approval of Zohydro at the expense of public health and consumer safety. The drug, Zohydro ER, contains five to ten times more hydrocodone than any drug currently available on the market. In its approved formulation, the drug is easily abused. It was approved by the FDA in October, despite a FDA advisory committee previously voting overwhelmingly against its approval. “FDA Advisory Committees seldom vote against approval, and such overwhelming opposition is even rarer,” the representatives wrote. “Given the Committee’s lopsided vote and experts’ strongly expressed concerns about the public health implications of approving this drug before better safeguards are in place to reduce abuse, Zohydro ER’s approval raises several questions…Ensuring that patients and consumers are protected against dubious ethical involvement of corporate pharmaceutical interests in the regulatory process helps to ensure public health is protected. This requires transparency. Accordingly, this matter requires closer inspection. The text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement praising House passage of the Preventing Government Waste & Protecting Coal Mining Jobs in America Act (H.R. 2824). "This bill lets the Obama Administration know that we are not going to allow taxpayer dollars to be used to continue developing job-killing regulations for our coal industry, along with his efforts to remove coal from the nation's energy mix, which will drive up energy bills across the country," said Congressman Rogers. "We need policies and regulations that make sense, rather than the wasteful policies that helped send nearly 8,000 coal miners to the unemployment lines in eastern Kentucky over the last two years. America deserves better. Kentucky deserves better." This act implements the 2008 Stream Buffer Zone Rule in which the Obama Administration discarded several years ago. It also directs the Department of the Interior to study the impact of the 2008 rule for five years before initiating another new rule. Also, during a coal mining-related House Appropriations Committee hearing with the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies (LHHS) on Tuesday morning, Chairman Rogers introduced the Chairman of Coal Operators and Associates, Charles Baird to testify about issues concerning, what he calls, an "abuse of power" in the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration. In his testimony, Baird stated, "many of our miners have more inspection hours than production hours." "I am proud of this hard working spirit that resides in my district, and that Mr. Baird represents. It is time to stop picking energy winners and losers and realize that coal is our best strategic energy resource and keeps food on the table and utility bills low. It keeps our people out of the unemployment line." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. Baird testifies about coal mining in E. Ky. during a House Appropriations Committee hearing
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senators Rand Paul (R-KY) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Congressmen Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Ed Whitfield (KY-01) announced today that Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell personally informed them that Lake Cumberland’s water level will be restored to 723 feet by mid-May. The members said, “Recently we met with Administration officials to request that the water levels of Lake Cumberland be restored to pre-2007 water levels in a timely manner, and we appreciate the Secretary of the Interior making an expedited, 45-day decision for their Biological Opinion, which prompted the Corps to sign the order today allowing water levels to be restored to 723 feet – levels adequate to support robust tourism in 2014. This announcement is great news for the thousands of people who rely on the lake for recreation and tourism, and to the local communities, businesses, and individuals whose livelihoods are being impacted because of the lower water levels.” Background: On February 11, 2014, at the request of Senate Republican Leader McConnell and Senator Paul, Daniel M. Ashe, Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, met with Senators McConnell, Paul and Alexander and Congressmen Rogers and Whitfield to discuss the water levels at Lake Cumberland. During the meeting in Senator McConnell’s leadership office, the members urged the agency to complete its study on the Duskytail Darter, a 2.5 inch fish on the endangered species list, in a timely manner that would allow for restoring the pre-2007 water levels on which the local community relies. In addition to that meeting, Senators McConnell and Paul and Congressmen Rogers and Whitfield contacted the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Fish and Wildlife Service regarding the issue. #### Contact: Robert Steurer (McConnell): (202) 224-8288 Sen. Paul Press: (202) 224-4343 Danielle Smoot (Rogers): (606) 679-8346 Marty Irby (Whitfield): (202) 225-3115 Jim Jeffries (Alexander) 202-224-8816
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Stephen Lynch (D-MA), a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, and Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, introduced the Act to Ban Zohydro. The bill seeks to withdraw approval for the high-dose narcotic painkiller Zohydro ER and prohibit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from approving such a drug in a formulation that is not abuse deterrent. The FDA’s recent approval of Zohydro ER against its own advisory panel’s recommendation highlighted the need for Congress to take immediate action. The Anesthetic and Anagelsic Drug Products Advisory Committee, which is charged with advising the FDA on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drug products, voted 11-2 against approving the drug without an abuse deterrent citing concerns over the potential for addiction. Substance abuse has been exacting a toll on America and the number of deaths reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) due to prescription drug abuse has spiked in recent years. According to the CDC, the number of deaths connected to prescription opioids has more than quadrupled in the United States from 4,030 deaths involving painkillers in 1999 to 16,651 deaths in 2010. Opioid based drugs were involved in 3 out 4 pharmaceutical overdose deaths in 2010. In 2014, the CDC has made it a top priority to reduce deaths attributable to prescription painkiller abuse. “Zohydro ER is a high-dose hydrocone-only opioid narcotic painkiller that does not have an abuse deterrent formulation,” said Congressman Lynch. “Allowing access to a drug so powerful, without this critical component, creates risks for the public drug we simply cannot afford. The FDA recently has taken positive steps in the regulation of opioids, including reclassifying hydrocodone combination products such as Lortab and Vicodin to a more restrictive Schedule II drug and updating labeling requirements for all extended release/long acting (ER/LA) opioid analgesics. However, this is a giant step backwards at a critical time when prescription drug abuse has fast become a rampant problem across the nation. We cannot afford to allow yet another highly addictive opioid into the mainstream and potentially onto Main Street America.” “While the FDA continues to send mixed signals to drug companies about the need to invest in abuse deterrent technologies, the Act to Ban Zohydro will make it abundantly clear – life saving measures are critical to the development of powerful painkillers like Zohydro,” said Congressman Rogers. “Someone dies every 16 minutes from a prescription drug overdose, making it the leading cause of accidental deaths in the United States. In southern and eastern Kentucky, we lost nearly an entire generation when crushable OxyContin was first prescribed, and I fear this crushable, pure hydrocodone pill will take us backwards with a new wave of addiction and tragic, untimely deaths. While there isn’t a silver bullet, abuse deterrent formulations offer common sense measures to curb the tide of overdose deaths in this country." The Act to Ban Zohydro will take steps to reduce the proliferation of powerfully addictive opioid painkillers that lead so many Americans down the road to devastating substance abuse. Congressman Lynch and Congressman Rogers understand the needs of chronic pain sufferers; however, approving Zohydro ER without an abuse deterrent formulation puts our nation’s public health at a great risk due to the high likelihood for abuse. In addition, 11 Members of the House of Representatives have signed on as original cosponsors of the bill. Today, Senator Joe Manchin introduced a companion bill in the Senate. Congressman Lynch and Congressman Rogers join in urging their colleagues to support this bipartisan, bicameral effort to stop another potentially harmful and highly addictive drug from being on the market. The FDA’s approval of Zohydro ER will also be a highlighted topic during the 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Atlanta, Georgia as leaders across the country discuss a holistic approach to the prescription drug abuse epidemic. Click here to view the Act to Ban Zohydro. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ####
03.14.2014	Click Photo to Watch FY15 USDA Budget Hearing WASHINGTON, DC -- ?During U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers' (KY-05) opening statement at the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) fiscal year 2015 budget hearing, he commended Secretary Thomas Vilsack for his recent visit to southern and eastern Kentucky and the agency's partnership for the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Initiative. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers also questioned several funding elements in the USDA budget proposal, pointing out that the agency's "artificially low estimates" in recent years were drastically increased by the middle of the year. Rogers highlighted his concern for the USDA's proposed cuts to rural housing programs and the impact such cuts would have in rural parts of the country, specifically in southern and eastern Kentucky. USDA witnesses included Secretary Thomas Vilsack, Chief Economist Dr. Joseph Glauber, and Budget Officer Michael Young. Rogers gave the following opening statement during the hearing: "Mr. Chairman, thank you for yielding. Secretary Vilsack, I appreciate you being with us today to discuss the Fiscal Year 2015 budget request for the Department of Agriculture. Because Ranking Member Lowey and I have committed to move all twelve appropriations bills through subcommittee, full committee, and the floor, we plan to move our process along at a brisk pace this year. Unquestionably, this return to regular order is critical to crafting bills that wisely expend taxpayer dollars. The FY14 omnibus package is a prime example of what we can accomplish together: this committee was able to provide every facet of the federal government with adequate, responsible funding, while continuing to reduce federal spending – totaling $165 billion in cuts since fiscal year 2010. "We have had to work hard to bring about these discretionary reductions. It has taken a lot of late nights and compromise, but we have gotten it done. Now we need to tackle our mandatory spending problem. Today, mandatory spending accounts for two-thirds of the federal budget, which is a stark contrast to how it was when I first arrived here and mandatory spending was only one-third of the budget. This runaway spending threatens to squeeze out all of the worthwhile programs that many of our constituents care for – from education to medical research, to housing assistance and farm loans. Yet, I see no leadership from this Administration to tackle this issue in the budget and mandatory spending comprises 86% of your department’s request. While UDSA’s budget proposes to lower both mandatory and discretionary spending within the department, we have heard this before. And over the last few years we have seen your artificially low estimates on mandatory spending blown up by the middle of the year. It’s time to get serious about this mandatory spending problem and have an honest discussion about it. You cannot hide behind phony estimates. "Once again in this year’s budget, the request proposes a significant cut to the Section 502 Direct Loan and the Mutual and Self Help Housing programs. We have seen this kind of smoke screen time and again from this administration: where funding is cut for useful programs in order to make room for new spending and create the illusion of budget savings. The concern I have is that this shows a disrespect for our rural communities and the constituents who have made these programs successful. In my district, Kentucky Highlands—through its Self-Help Housing program—has completed 20 homes and currently has 6 more under construction using Section 523 Self-Help technical assistance and Section 502 Direct Loans. For example, one woman in my district just finished building a 3-bedroom home for $98,000. If she had used a contractor, that same home would have cost $145,000 to build. The rental home where she and her young daughter previously lived was so poorly insulated that she kept the thermostat at 52 degrees in the winter, just so the electric bill would stay at or below $500 a month. Her electric bills are now expected to average around $100 a month in her new home. Another single mother in my district used these programs to build a 4-bedroom home for herself and her 4 children for $102,000. If she had used a contractor, that same home would have cost $148,000 to build and it would not have been possible without the Section 502 Direct Loan program and the sweat equity earned through the Section 523 program. It seems to me that this is the sort of thing we should be encouraging, and there are a lot more hard-working people like these women who are more than happy to put in the time and effort to gain homeownership. I hope that you can begin to support this program with a little more emphasis than you have been in the budgets we have seen. "Mr. Secretary, I look forward to hearing your testimony and your plans for supporting our nation’s farmers and our rural communities through these difficult budgetary times. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back." ###
03.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers received the Spirit of Enterprise Award from U.S. Chamber of Commerce in recognition of his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the first session of the 113th Congress. "Our small businesses keep 55% of the nation employed, ensuring thousands of people across Kentucky have the ability to pay their bills and keep food on the table," said Rogers. "I applaud the U.S. Chamber for bringing employers and community leaders together with a unified voice for policies and legislation that impact the daily lives of millions of Americans every year." The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes qualify to receive the award. “2013 was challenging, but Congressman Rogers worked to pass legislation and enact policies that will keep our country moving forward economically,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes legislators like Congressman Rogers who have demonstrated their commitment to supporting pro-growth policies in the 113th Congress.” According to this year’s scorecard, Rogers received an 85% rating with the Chamber in 2013 and has a cumulative rating of 86% for his tenure in Congress. During the first session of the 113th Congress, the Chamber scored members on eight Senate votes and 13 House votes, including those to reopen the federal government and raise the national debt ceiling, reform the nation’s broken immigration system, delay enforcement of the employer mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act, and ease approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. Also scored were votes on a number of other issues including trade, transportation, legal reform, and the budget. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
03.12.2014	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites high school students in southern and eastern Kentucky to participate in the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. One winner from each Congressional District will have his or her artwork displayed at the nation's Capitol for one year, where more than three million people visit annually. “The Congressional Art Competition recruits the very best artwork from students across the nation. It presents a great way for southern and eastern Kentucky teens to showcase their artistic talent and receive national recognition,” said Rogers. “I enjoy walking through the long hallway where all of the artwork is displayed from each state, and I take great pride in showing off the artwork from the 5th District of Kentucky." Last year, Jeffery Couch submitted the winning artwork from Knott Central High School for the second year in a row. The winning painting entitled “Deep in Slumber,” captured his younger sister taking an afternoon nap utilizing watercolors. Jeffery is the son of Jeffery and Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. For competition guidelines, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by Friday, April 25, 2014. The top three district winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard District Offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual awards ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county: Prestonsburg District Office (Boyd, Carter, Floyd, Elliott, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan Counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley and Perry counties) 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here from more information about the Congressional Art Competition. Click here to download the student release form. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. "Deep in Slumber" by Jeffery Couch - 2013 Winner ###
03.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for and applauded House passage of the Electricity Security and Affordability Act (H.R. 3826). Rogers cosponsored the legislation to halt the crippling new regulations being designed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that would effectively shut down coal-fired power plants in the United States. “The Environmental Protection Agency's radical environmental agenda is crippling communities across coal country with skyrocketing unemployment rates and higher utility bills. Eastern Kentucky has already lost about half of the coal mining jobs we had just two years ago, leaving more than 7,000 coal miners searching for a way to put food on the table and pay their bills,” stated Congressman Rogers, a member of the Congressional Coal Caucus. "Instead of pursuing policies to encourage growth and development in hard-hit regions, the EPA continues to set up roadblocks at every turn; however, this legislation will rein in this out-of-control agenda to ensure that coal remains a viable, affordable part of our country’s energy portfolio.” Specifically, H.R. 3826 would require the EPA to categorize fuel sources like coal and natural gas separately, rather than requiring a one-size-fits-all standard. The legislation will also ensure that coal continues to be a cost-effective option for power generation, including new state-of-the-art technologies that are being researched today. Under the EPA’s proposed regulations, even the most state-of-the-art new coal power plant would not be a viable cost option. The result for these new regulations will be higher costs for consumers, and less energy security for the country. The Electricity Security and Affordability Act now heads to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter or on Facebook. ###
02.14.2014	MONTICELLO, Ky -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was the keynote speaker at the Wayne County Chamber of Commerce's monthly meeting at the Wayne County Extension Office. Before his keynote address, Citizens National Bank announced a new $1,000 scholarship opportunity for Wayne County High School students. As an alumni of the school, the bank honored Rogers by naming it the "Congressman Harold Rogers Scholarship." "This scholarship is a wonderful gift for Wayne County High School students, and I'm so honored to be a part of this generous college opportunity for our students," said Rogers. "College changed my life, guiding my interest in the field of law and public service. We can only hope that scholarships like this help launch our future leaders on their journey to success." In his keynote address, Rogers commended the 200-plus men and women representing the Kentucky National Guard's C Battery 1/623rd Field Artillery unit based in Monticello that returned home in October after serving nearly a year in Jordan. It was the first Kentucky National Guard Unit to ever be deployed to Jordan. The Monticello Artillery was Rogers' home unit as a former member of the Guard. Just returning from Washington, D.C. this week, Rogers shared his optimism for bipartisanship in Congress, in light of the overwhelming passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. The omnibus package provides the federal government with a budget for the first time in years. Here at home, Rogers said Wayne County will benefit from the new SOAR initiative: 'Shaping Our Appalachian Region' that he and Governor Steve Beshear launched late last year. In concert with SOAR, U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced the StrikeForce program is expanding to Kentucky and will cover Wayne County. Rogers also said phase one of a new high-speed, high-capacity broadband project will soon be launching in southern and eastern Kentucky. "Kentucky's Super I-way will take away our historic barriers to better jobs. All of a sudden, the world is flat and the famed superior work ethic of our people will be able to compete with the world," said Rogers. Before leaving, Rogers also delivered about one hundred books for the Wayne County Public Library to Director Anne Garner. "Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. (Left) Rogers with Library Director Anne Garner, (Right) Rogers withWayne County 4-H Students (Left) Rogers with Staff Sgt. Meadors, (Right) Betty Wright greets Rogers at the Wayne Co. Hospital Rogers with employees of Citizens National Bank - Monticello Branch #####
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) voted for and praised House passage of an amendment to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 to fix a one percent reduction in cost of living increases for working age military retirees. If it becomes law, the provision would only apply to those who became a member of uniformed service on or after January 1, 2014. "This provision restores full cost of living increases to all current military personnel who joined the U.S. Armed Forces prior to this year," said Rogers. "We have made tough cuts to federal spending, but we need to fix this flaw in the Omnibus legislation. This amendment will ensure our men and women who have bravely served our military in the wake of 9/11, Operation Enduring Freedom and other important missions, receive 100% of future cost of living increases. They certainly deserve it." The provision is currently part of the Omnibus package that was designed to save approximately $6 billion in mandatory spending. It would become effective beginning December 1, 2015. The amendment now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At the request of Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Rand Paul, Daniel M. Ashe, Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, met with Senators McConnell and Paul, Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Congressmen Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Ed Whitfield (KY-01) to discuss the water levels at Lake Cumberland. During the meeting in Senator McConnell’s leadership office, the members urged the agency to complete its study on the duskytail darter, a 2.5 inch minnow on the federal endangered species list, in a timely manner that would allow for restoring the pre-2007 water levels on which the local community relies. “This is an issue of great importance to our state and we appreciate Dan Ashe coming to the Capitol today to hear our concerns regarding the water level of Lake Cumberland and its impact on the Kentucky economy and jobs,” the members said following the meeting. “The past seven years of reduced water levels have not only hurt small businesses that rely on tourism, but have also strained local governments as local towns have had to lower their water intake. We urge the U.S. Fish & Wildlife to move quickly and ensure the water levels of Lake Cumberland are raised adequately to support tourism prior to the peak season in 2014.” Top L-R: Sen. McConnell, Director Ashe, Rep. Rogers, and Rep. Whitfield Bottom L-R: Sen. Alexander, Sen. Paul, Sen. McConnell, and Director Ashe Download photo HERE Last Monday, Senators McConnell and Paul and Congressmen Rogers and Whitfield contacted the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Fish and Wildlife Service regarding the issue. A copy of their letter is available HERE. ###
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Senators Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul and Congressmen Hal Rogers and Ed Whitfield contacted the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Monday regarding a “matter of great concern to the economic wellbeing of the Lake Cumberland area in southeastern Kentucky.” The members wrote, in a letter to Lt. Col. John L. Hudson, Division Commanding General of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Honorable Daniel M. Ashe, Director of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, that “the repair of the Wolf Creek Dam began in 2007 and has led to extremely low water levels that have damaged the area’s ability to attract tourists. The past seven years of reduced water levels have not only hurt small businesses that rely on tourism, but have also strained local governments as local towns have had to lower their water intake. “Despite all of these serious economic concerns, on January 29, 2014, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced its intent to further delay the raising of the water levels on Lake Cumberland. The Corps announced this was due to the presence of an endangered species of fish, the Duskytail Darter, in the lake’s tributaries, which requires the agencies to undertake a Biological Assessment designed to ‘minimize any potential impacts to this species.’? “We urge your agencies to immediately collaborate . . . in a manner that would allow for restoring the higher water levels on which the local community relies. It is critical that Lake Cumberland be able to raise water levels adequate to support tourism prior to the peak season in 2014. It is well past time for the lake to return to its full capacity.” The McConnell, Paul, Rogers and Whitfield letter can be viewed HERE. ###
01.24.2014	Embargoed Until January 23, 2014 at 12:00 p.m. EST ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) and Governor Nathan Deal (R-GA) joined several state and national leaders at the Georgia Capitol on Thursday, January 23, to announce that the 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit will be hosted in Atlanta, Georgia. This Summit is the largest national collaboration of professionals on the prescription drug abuse issue and will be held April 22-24, 2014, at the Atlanta Marriott Marquis. “Prescription drug abuse is a growing issue in the nation and in Georgia. Since I took office, I have worked with the General Assembly to combat this issue through several measures, including the passage of the Georgia Pain Management Clinic Act last year,” said Gov. Nathan Deal. “We have made progress, but there is still much to be done. We as a state look forward to hosting the Summit and bringing together experts to discuss new ways to combat abuse.” Someone dies every 16 minutes from a prescription drug overdose, making it the leading cause of accidental deaths in the United States. “After Florida passed legislation in 2011 cracking down on pill mills, drug dealers moved up Interstate 75 and opened up shop in Georgia. It was imperative that we put a law in place to address the onslaught,” said Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens. “Last year, I was proud to work with the Governor and the General Assembly on legislation to protect our communities and put these bad actors out of business.” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has categorized the high rate of prescription drug abuse deaths as a national epidemic. “Like Kentucky, Georgia has been heavily impacted by pill mills and drug dealers and drug seekers along I-75 and across state lines. We have to work together to help save lives and curb this tide of abuse that plagues our nation,” said Congressman Hal Rogers, co-founder of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus. “The Summit takes a holistic approach to the drug abuse epidemic, bringing together legislators, law enforcement, medical professionals, advocates, educators and many other leaders to focus on real solutions.” Congressman Rogers announced Matthew Perry – an American-Canadian actor/director/producer acclaimed for his role as Chandler Bing on the most successful television shows of all time, Friends – along with his friend, addictions and recovery expert Earl Hightower – will serve as two of the keynote presenters this year. Perry is returning to TV this fall as Oscar Madison on a modern remake of “The Odd Couple” for CBS. Perry, 44, who is in long-term recovery from prescription drug addiction, is a tireless advocate for Drug Courts and other interventions for those in need of substance abuse treatment. Perry and Hightower were recently honored with the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy’s “Champion of Recovery” award for their work to help addicts. No one understands the prescription drug abuse epidemic as intimately as those families who have lost a loved one to the overwhelming clutch of addiction. Gainesville resident, Dallas Gay lost his 21-year-old grandson to a prescription drug overdose. Now, he’s the Co-Chairman of the Medical Association of Georgia Foundation’s “Think About It” campaign. “I’m here to help the other Jefferies who are out there who could follow his same fate,” said Mr. Gay. “We’re losing too many young people to these deadly cocktails of prescription drugs and alcohol. This is a problem that our society has created, but it doesn’t have to be this way. Working together, we will make a difference.” The CDC has been an active partner and supporter of the Summit for the last two years. The federal agency’s Director, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden will also be a keynote speaker at the 2014 event. “CDC arms states with the resources, information and expertise to respond quickly and effectively and reverse this epidemic,” said Dr. Frieden. “We do this by equipping states including Kentucky and Georgia with the data, evidence and programs they need to maximize every resource.” The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) – a regional economic development agency comprising all or parts of 13 states, including north Georgia – has served as the Summit’s Education Partner since inception. “At ARC we understand all too well the devastating impact substance abuse is having on Appalachia’s population and work force,” said Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair of the ARC. “It tears families apart, drains community resources, and holds back economic development. That is why we are a strong supporter of this Summit’s goal of educating people about drug abuse and preventing it in the first place. Appalachia’s most important resource is its people, and we need to do everything we can to empower them in their fight against this menace to their communities.” Sponsors have made it possible for the Southeastern Kentucky-based non-profit organization Operation UNITE (Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education) to bring its grassroots efforts into the national spotlight. “Because of this partnership, the Summit is able to offer participants up to 17 Continuing Education Credits across most disciplines,” said Dan Smoot, UNITE President/CEO. “The ARC is a perfect fit as prescription drug abuse is a contributing factor to poverty, workforce development and thriving communities.” Highlights of the 2014 Summit include breakout sessions in seven Educational Tracks – Clinical, Education & Advocacy, Pharmacy, Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), Third-Party Payer, Treatment, and Law Enforcement – tailored to provide stakeholders timely and relevant information. In addition, the summit will include a Gubernatorial Panel featuring leaders of successful prescription drug abuse prevention initiatives, a panel discussion featuring members of the U.S. House of Representatives, and Vision Sessions providing an in-depth examination of innovative programs and strategies designed to educate, mitigate and resolve issues related to prescription drug abuse. For more information about the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit visit http://nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org and follow on social media at Twitter.com/RxSummit, Facebook.com/RxSummit, or LinkedIn.com/RxSummit. ####
01.22.2014	Media Advisory - Press Conference WHAT: Press Conference announcing : Georgia to take leading role in national discussion on prescription drug abuse epidemic by hosting theNational Rx Drug Abuse Summitin April 2014. ACelebrity Keynote Presenter for this year's Summit. A Question & Answer session with state and federal leaders will follow. WHEN: Noon on Thursday, January 23, 2014 WHERE: North Wing of the Georgia State Capitol Building,206 Washington St SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30334 WHO: Governor Nathan Deal, State of Georgia Hon. Harold "Hal" Rogers, U.S. Representative, Kentucky 5th District, Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations; Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse Dr. Tom Frieden, Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair, Appalachian Regional Commission Attorney General Sam Olens, State of Georgia Commissioner Frank Berry, Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities LIVE STREAM Media unable to attend the press conference in person may watch the event live on Governor Deal's website: http://www.gov.georgia.gov/tv ABOUT The third annual National Rx Drug Abuse Summit - the largest national collaboration of professionals on this issue - will be held April 22-24, 2014, at the Atlanta, Marriott Marquis. Both previous Summits were held in Orlando, Florida. Nearly 900 people from 49 states and two other countries participated in the 2013 Summit. That Summit brought together the nation's top legislators, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, treatment providers, law enforcement personnel, insurance payers and researchers to share the latest findings and strategies to make an impact in the battle against the prescription drug abuse and diversion epidemic. Recurring themes highlighted by presenters at the Summit included: the need to provide better education about drug abuse and diversion, especially for prescribers; greater use and seamless integration of state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs; identifying and sharing best-practice solutions; openly admitting problems to facilitate provision of effective treatment and recovery programs; and adequately treating pain without over-prescribing narcotics that lack abuse-deterrent formulations. ON-SITE MEDIA CONTACT Danielle Smoot, Communications Director, Congressman Hal Rogers, 606-854-6867. For Summit details visit NationalRxDrugAbuseSummit.org Follow via social media atTwitter.com/RxSummit, Facebook.com/RxSummit, or LinkedIn.com/RxSummit. About the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit The 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit is the largest national collaboration of professionalsfrom local, state, and federal agencies; businesses; academia; clinicians; treatment providers; counselors, educators; state and national leaders; and advocates impacted by Rx drug abuse, misuse and diversion. The 2013 Summit drew nearly 900 participants from 49 states and 2 other countries.
01.22.2014	FRANKFORT, Ky. (Jan. 22, 2014) – Governor Steve Beshear joined Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers today to announce an ambitious state and federal investment to extend critically-needed high-speed broadband Internet access to the furthest reaches of the Commonwealth. The underserved eastern Kentucky region will be the first priority area for the project, which will be supported by $60 million in state bonds and $40 million in federal and private sources. “Access to high-speed and high-quality Internet is no longer a luxury; it’s a necessity in the 21st century economy. Businesses and schools demand it,” said Gov. Beshear. “Our communities that lack reliable high-speed access will lag behind in economic development, distance learning and advanced health technologies, and that’s unacceptable.” “The new ‘Super I-way’ will level the playing field,” said Congressman Rogers. “It takes away our historic barriers to better jobs, the difficult terrain and isolation. All of a sudden, the world is flat and the famed superior work ethic of our people will be able to compete with the world from home.” Currently, Kentucky ranks 46th in high-speed broadband Internet availability. Nearly a quarter of the Commonwealth’s population -- 23 percent -- have no access to broadband. The Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway will offer affordable and accessible high-speed broadband to reduce the barriers of geography for businesses and citizens. The Commonwealth will partner with the Center for Rural Development for the first phase of the project in eastern Kentucky, leveraging various federal funds and private investment to attain access throughout the region. The Center has initiated a feasibility study that will be complete in the next several weeks outlining the costs and plans of meeting eastern Kentucky’s broadband needs. “I want to thank Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers for their leadership in giving the people of Eastern Kentucky a reason to hope and to have a brighter future,” said House Speaker Greg Stumbo. “Projects like this are crucial, because high-speed internet is an absolute must for our region to succeed in economic development, education, healthcare and elsewhere.” “Bringing high-speed internet to Eastern Kentucky will, in essence, flatten the mountains and put our region on a level playing field with the rest of the state," said Senate President Robert Stivers. "This access is a critical step in strengthening our region, as we set out to do in the SOAR conference.” Internet access isn’t high-speed broadband Most households in the state have access to an Internet Service Provider (ISP), but that’s not the same as high-speed broadband. Broadband is considered “always on”, and is capable of carrying much larger amounts of information to a larger group of users. As the federal definition of broadband changes, and minimum speed increases (often in megabits per second, or MBS), Kentucky falls further behind because the service available to citizens does not meet these minimum qualifications. Today, only about half of the state’s households use broadband service, and nearly one-quarter can’t access broadband at all. “That’s not acceptable,” said Gov. Beshear. “We cannot get companies to even consider locating in an area that doesn’t have broadband. This is just one reason high-speed broadband Internet is important for the entire economy of Kentucky, not just urban areas.” Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway to expand fiber infrastructure The initial phase of the Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway project, estimated to cost approximately $100 million, could take up two to three years to build nearly 3,000 miles of fiber infrastructure, which is often referred to as the “middle” mile. The project will incorporate the current and best available technology at a speed of up to 100 gigabits per second. Where available, existing fiber will be used. “This world-class Internet infrastructure will bring high-speed Internet, or broadband, closer to communities throughout the state,” said Lori H. Flanery, secretary of the Finance and Administration Cabinet. “It opens up possibilities for Kentuckians to connect with the world at the highest speeds available, allowing them to truly participate in today’s global environment.” Since 2010, the Kentucky Office of Broadband Outreach and Development in the Finance and Administration Cabinet has focused on identifying and mapping areas across the state that are unserved or underserved by affordable broadband service. Using that information and working with public partners, such as the Council on Postsecondary Education, along with private providers, the Finance and Administration Cabinet provided guidance to the governor about the Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway project. The initiative will be a partnership of government at all levels and the private sector. The private-public partnership – often referred to as a P3 – allows the state to leverage resources to fill service gaps. “This investment by the Commonwealth will pay dividends for years to come,” Gov. Beshear said. “Much like previous generations’ efforts to build our sewer and water systems, the electric grid and paved highways, this initiative will solidify Kentucky’s place in the new global economy.” A number of obstacles have prevented the full expansion of high-speed broadband into every home and business. Those issues include: • Sparse population: It’s a numbers game. When there’s not enough population to allow the service provider to get a return on investment, expansion doesn’t take place. • Affordability: Kentucky has a significant number of people who are at or near the poverty threshold. Broadband typically costs $20 or more per month, making it a luxury many Kentuckians assume they can’t afford. • Attitude: Many people have access and can afford high-speed broadband, but choose not to subscribe because they think they don’t need it. Initial Steps Underway The Finance and Administration Cabinet is receiving responses to a request for proposal from consultants who are interested in working on the Next Generation Kentucky Information Highway project. The consultant will validate cost estimates and provide guidance on the most efficient and effective way to proceed with the project. The project is slated to begin in eastern Kentucky, closely aligning the state’s efforts with the Center for Rural Development and the “S.O.A.R.: Shaping Our Appalachian Region initiative in created by Gov. Beshear, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers and other local and state leaders in that region. Gov. Beshear and Rep. Rogers organized the SOAR Summit to gather ideas and recommendations about how to move Kentucky’s Appalachian region forward. The SOAR Summit, held in Pikeville on Dec. 9, attracted more than 1,700 Kentuckians. Its report, released last week, is available online at http://www.governor.ky.gov/SOAR and through state libraries. Since the summit, Gov. Beshear has helped announce the recent federal designation of a Promise Zone in eastern Kentucky, the four-laning of the Mountain Parkway, a $2.6 million business loan pool for the region and USDA StrikeForce designation for rural area investments in eastern Kentucky. ###
01.21.2014	Rogers Delivers Books to Lincoln County Library STANFORD, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Tuesday, Rogers delivered more than 100 books to the Lincoln County Public Library in downtown Stanford, Kentucky. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rogers presented Lincoln County Public Library Director, Amanda Gearheart with several boxes of literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Lincoln County Library," said Gearheart. "The books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has collected books for West Liberty Elementary School and Public Libraries in Harlan, Knott, Lee, Magoffin, McCreary, Owsley and Pulaski Counties. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
01.17.2014	Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers joined U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today to announce the first report from last month’s Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) Summit, as well as to reveal significant new partnership opportunities through the USDA – which the leaders said mean promising new strategies for the success of eastern Kentucky and the entire Commonwealth. In an effort to focus on the future success of southern and eastern Kentucky, Gov. Beshear and Rep. Rogers organized the SOAR Summit to gather ideas and recommendations about how to move Kentucky’s Appalachian region forward. The SOAR Summit, held in Pikeville on Dec. 9, attracted more than 1,700 Kentuckians. Today’s report provides a compendium of all the comments and suggestions submitted to the initiative, and outlines common themes for focused efforts in the coming weeks, months, and years. Agriculture Secretary Vilsack announced the expansion of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s StrikeForce Initiativeinto four additional states, including Kentucky, Louisiana, Tennessee and West Virginia. Nearly two-thirds of Kentucky’s counties – 73 total – will be part of the StrikeForce, which means the USDA will partner with local community organizations, businesses, foundations, universities and other groups to support local projects and pursue needed investments into rural areas. “All of today’s announcements reveal a common theme – that thanks to our shared effort, vision, and cooperation, we are already seeing meaningful progress toward a new future for Appalachia as well as many of our rural counties,” said Gov. Beshear. “The work of the SOAR initiative has not only captured the attention of our citizens, but has also attracted new partners outside our borders to share our work of revitalizing and reimagining this key region. The work is far from over, but we are off to a tremendous start.” “This is what the SOAR initiative is all about – working together, dreaming big and creating new opportunities,” said Congressman Rogers. “Only five weeks after the SOAR Summit, we’re receiving real commitments, real programs, and real dollars dedicated to Eastern Kentucky, and the best is yet to come.” “The StrikeForce strategy of partnering public resources with local expertise is helping to grow rural economies and create jobs in persistent poverty communities,” said Vilsack. “This is a strategy that is working in rural America and I am pleased that we continue to build on these efforts to bring assistance to areas in Kentucky that need it the most.” SOAR Summit Report The SOAR Summit report compiles the messages and comments submitted throughout the event, as well as conversations held during the event’s nine breakout sessions, which covered topics such as tourism, entrepreneurship, lifelong learning and regional collaboration. In all, more than 1,000 comments are included in the report, as well as more than 600 written ideas and organizational commitments to support the initiative. No idea or commitment received has been removed from the report. The SOAR Summit welcomed hundreds of attendees from across southern and eastern Kentucky with varied occupational backgrounds and interests– including individuals representing education, business, nonprofits, arts, finance, tourism, local government and more. “This chronicle of ideas will be our guide for the next steps in the SOAR initiative,” said Congressman Rogers. “The report also fuels inspiration, with the overwhelming response being action instead of complaints. Eastern Kentuckians are clearly ready to dive in, serve in working groups, and offer individual expertise to help shape the future of our hometowns. “One strong sentiment among SOAR participants is that this initiative must be much more than a planning exercise – that it would lead not to another study collecting dust on a shelf but to action,” said Gov. Beshear. “It’s clear from the report and from the several positive events since the SOAR Summit that this effort will not wither away.” The report was compiled by the Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), which facilitated the SOAR Summit. While the report is intended to simply reflect the events and dialogue of that day, the observations about the event will guide leaders in planning future events and programs launched by SOAR. “What occurred at the SOAR event was an exemplary regional dialogue,” said RUPRI President and CEO Chuck Fluharty. “Participants were thoughtful, engaged, respectful of one another’s views, creative, deliberative, and above all else, hopeful. The region’s ability to build collaborative frameworks to capture the many innovative ideas and partnerships suggested was becoming imaginable.” The report summary provides some guidelines to be used in determining the initiative’s next steps. For example, many SOAR attendees voiced the need for broadening and deepening the dialogue, perhaps in community and county discussions. Others reiterated the need to identify funding, emphasized the necessity of SOAR leadership to transcend county and regional boundaries, or suggested that crafting a formal leadership structure should be carefully considered over a period of time. The SOAR report is available at http://www.governor.ky.gov/SOAR and through all state libraries. Both Gov. Beshear and Congressman Rogers plan to review the report carefully before making further announcements about next steps for the SOAR initiative. The leaders also pointed to a series of recent partnerships and announcements as indications of SOAR’s strong momentum, including: · the recent federal designation of a Promise Zone for an eight-county region in eastern Kentucky to accelerate partnerships and access to federal programs, including job creation efforts; · yesterday’s announcement of a $2.6 million loan pool that will allow entrepreneurs and startup companies in the region to qualify for small business loans through the U.S. Department of the Treasury; · a new $30 million district Race to the Top award for improving education in 18 rural school districts in eastern Kentucky; and · the Governor’s announcement this week of plans to expand and four-lane the Mountain Parkway, which will essentially create the equivalent of a four-lane interstate through this key region. About USDA StrikeForce In 2010, USDA launched the StrikeForce for Rural Growth and Opportunity – an effort to leverage partnerships in poverty-stricken rural areas to ensure that every community has equal access to USDA programs. Since that time,through StrikeForce, USDA has partnered with over 400 community organizations, businesses, foundations, universities and other groups to support 80,300 projects and ushered more than $9.7 billion in investments into rural America. The USDA will aim to increase investment in Kentucky’s 73 targeted rural counties through intensive outreach and stronger partnership. “Through StrikeForce, we are able to reach people in new ways and bring resources to them directly,” said Vilsack. “We are learning better ways to help communities leverage their assets and bring opportunity to their residents.” Today’s expansion brings StrikeForce attention to over 700 rural counties, parishes, boroughs, tribal reservations, and Colonias in 20 states, including Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia and West Virginia. StrikeForce is part of the Administration’s commitment to addressing persistent poverty across America. Last week, President Obama announced the first five of 20 Promise Zones, including one in southeastern Kentucky, that target federal resources to cities, rural areas and Tribal communities suffering the worst poverty. Kentucky counties in the StrikeForce zone include: Adair, Allen, Barren, Bath, Bell, Boyd, Breathitt, Breckinridge, Butler, Caldwell, Carroll, Carter, Casey, Christian, Clay, Clinton, Crittenden, Cumberland, Elliott, Estill, Fleming, Floyd, Fulton, Garrard, Graves, Grayson, Green, Greenup, Harlan, Harrison, Hart, Henry, Hopkins, Jackson, Johnson, Knott, Knox, Laurel, Lawrence, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Lincoln, Logan, McCreary, McLean, Madison, Magoffin, Marion, Martin, Menifee, Metcalfe, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Muhlenberg, Ohio, Owlsey, Perry, Pike, Powell, Robertson, Rockcastle, Rowan, Russell, Taylor, Todd, Union, Wayne, Whitley, Wolfe. ### The SOAR report is available at http://www.governor.ky.gov/SOAR and through all state libraries.
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) praised members of the U.S. House of Representatives for passing the Omnibus Bill, a comprehensive government spending bill for Fiscal Year 2014. In total, it provides $1.012 trillion in discretionary funding – the same level delineated in the Ryan-Murray agreement. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers helped author key provisions in the bill, including several designed to protect and revive coal mining communities. The bipartisan bill passed Wednesday with a vote of 359 - 67. "We made responsible choices to realign the nation’s funding priorities, targeting precious tax dollars to where they are needed the most," said Rogers. "Throughout the bill, we have maintained pro-life policies, and protected Second Amendment rights. We’ve made sure that this bill provides no new funding for ObamaCare, and have even cut existing ObamaCare funds to the tune of over one billion dollars. It also includes several provisions to protect and revive our coal mining communities." The Omnibus ends government spending under a Continuing Resolution, which imposed out-dated funding levels across federal agencies. Instead, it contains all 12 regular appropriations bills for fiscal year 2014. This allows every program to be weighed individually and prioritized, with funding targeted to the most important and effective programs while lower-priority programs are reduced. Bill Highlights for Kentucky-- Economic and Rural Development The FY14 spending bill supports a number of economic development programs that will have a meaningful impact in Southern and Eastern Kentucky and which dovetail with the mission of SOAR: Shaping Our Appalachian Region. Examples include: Economic Development Administration: $209.5 million for Economic Development Assistance Programs, including $3 million to enhance regional business development in areas negatively impacted by the downturn in the coal industry. Appalachian Regional Commission: $80 million to increase job opportunities and per capita income in Appalachia, including $10 million for broadband deployment in distressed Central Appalachian counties. UDSA Rural Development: $2.4 billion to assist rural communities in creating affordable housing options and critical infrastructure investments such as rural broadband, utility and power systems. Community Development Financial Institutions: $226 million to promote economic revitalization in low-income communities. HubZone: $2.245 million to help small businesses in rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities. Head Start: $8.6 billion to continue promoting early education, the bedrock of future economic opportunity for the region. Job Training: $10.4 billion for job training initiatives to help working individuals recover from layoffs, career changes and dealing with a tough economic climate. Community Services Block Grants and Community Economic Development Grants: $759 million in grants to fight poverty and promote business opportunities in areas like southern and eastern Kentucky. Pro-Coal Energy Policy The omnibus legislation contains a number of provisions to ensure that coal continues to be an important part of our country’s energy portfolio, and that the international market for coal remains strong. Examples include: Federal research: $562 million for the Department of Energy’s Fossil Energy program, which supports vital research on technologies that utilize our region’s coal resources. Cuts the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): reins in this out-of-control regulatory agency with $143 million in budget cuts. Overall, EPA funding has been reduced by $2.1 billion – or 20.4% – since Republicans gained control of the House in 2010. Mining Permits: prohibits the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from changing the definition of “fill,” to protect hundreds of thousands of mining jobs and more than a million other jobs in related industries, and requires the Corps to report to Congress on the number of mining permits being issued. Keeping foreign coal markets open: the bill prohibits a component of President Obama’s damaging Climate Change Policy that would stop the United States from investing in coal-fired power plants in developing countries. Office of Surface Mining: provides $150 million for the Office of Surface Mining, including $69 million in state grants to allow states to implement their programs without increasing fees on the mining industry. Drug Abuse The omnibus contains funding and numerous provisions to promote a holistic anti-drug strategy at the federal level. Examples include: Drug Courts: $119.5 million in the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help non-violent offenders struggling with addiction, including $4 million for Veterans Treatment Courts to support our men and women in uniform. Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs: $7 million for DOJ to provide grants to states to implement and enhance PDMPs. Meth Cleanup: $10 million to support state and local law enforcement efforts to clean up methamphetamine labs. Federal Investigations: $360.9 million for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA)’s diversion control account, which supports federal investigation of prescription drug misuse. In addition, U.S. Attorneys are encouraged to prioritize the investigation and prosecution of pain clinics that serve as fronts for the illegal distribution of addictive painkillers. National Guard Counter-drug activities: $1.05 billion for the National Guard to conduct counter-drug activities, such as marijuana eradication in the Daniel Boone National Forest. HIDTA: $238.5 million to support regional anti-drug initiatives, such as the Appalachian High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area. Assistance to states: $1.25 million for assistance to states in implementing drug laws. Substance Abuse and Prevention Block Grants: $1.74 billion for states to plan, carry out and evaluate activities to prevent and treat substance abuse. ###
01.14.2014	Governor Nathan Deal and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers Join State and Federal Leaders to Announce 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit WHAT Press Conference announcing : Georgia to take leading role in national discussion on prescription drug abuse epidemic by hosting the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in April 2014. A Celebrity Keynote Presenter for this year's Summit. WHEN 11:30 am on Thursday, January 23, 2014 WHERE North Wing of the Georgia State Capitol Building, 206 Washington St SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30334 WHO Governor Nathan Deal, State of Georgia Hon. Harold "Hal" Rogers, U.S. Representative, Kentucky 5th District, Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations; Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse Dr. Tom Frieden, Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chair, Appalachian Regional Commission Attorney General Sam Olens, State of Georgia Commissioner Frank Berry, Georgia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities LIVE STREAM Media unable to attend the press conference in person may watch the event live on Governor Deal's website: http://gov.georgia.gov/tv ABOUT The third annual National Rx Drug Abuse Summit - the largest national collaboration of professionals on this issue - will be held April 22-24, 2014, at the Atlanta, Marriott Marquis. Both previous Summits were held in Orlando, Florida. Nearly 900 people from 49 states and two other countries participated in the 2013 Summit. That Summit brought together the nation's top legislators, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, treatment providers, law enforcement personnel, insurance payers and researchers to share the latest findings and strategies to make an impact in the battle against the prescription drug abuse and diversion epidemic. Recurring themes highlighted by presenters at the Summit included: the need to provide better education about drug abuse and diversion, especially for prescribers; greater use and seamless integration of state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs; identifying and sharing best-practice solutions; openly admitting problems to facilitate provision of effective treatment and recovery programs; and adequately treating pain without over-prescribing narcotics that lack abuse-deterrent formulations. ON-SITE MEDIA CONTACT Danielle Smoot, Communications Director, Congressman Hal Rogers, 606-854-6867. For Summit details visit NationalRxDrugAbuseSummit.org and f ollow via social media at Twitter.com/RxSummit, Facebook.com/RxSummit, or LinkedIn.com/RxSummit. About the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit The 2014 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit is the largest national collaboration of professionals from local, state, and federal agencies; businesses; academia; clinicians; treatment providers; counselors, educators; state and national leaders; and advocates impacted by Rx drug abuse, misuse and diversion. The 2013 Summit drew nearly 900 participants from 49 states and 2 other countries. #####
01.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds Southeastern Kentucky's Promise Zone designation awarded by the President to the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation to address economic needs in eight counties. Congressman Rogers was invited to the White House for the announcement, along with Kentucky Highlands President and CEO Jerry Rickett, Senate Leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Rand Paul. "I'm glad the Administration has finally awakened to the economic problems that are facing Southern and Eastern Kentucky due to the coal job losses. This is one of several awards that I hope to see headed our way in concert with the SOAR initiative, to help in 'Shaping Our Appalachian Region,'" said Rogers. "This program shows promise for recruiting private industry in several of our hard-hit counties. And what a great way to celebrate Kentucky Highlands' 45th anniversary. With Jerry Rickett at the helm, this organization has a proven track record of bringing thousands of jobs to our region, and helping entrepreneurs launch their businesses and grow our economy." Southeastern Kentucky was selected as one of the first five Promise Zones and serves as the only rural region in the nation to receive the designation. The Promise Zone includes Bell, Harlan, Letcher, Perry, Leslie, Clay, Knox, and part of Whitley County. The population is restricted to a maximum of 200,000 people. The first five Zones, located in San Antonio, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Southeastern Kentucky, and the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, have each put forward a plan on how they will partner with local business and community leaders to make investments that reward hard work and expand opportunity. In exchange, these designees will receive the resources and flexibility they need to achieve their goals. Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation plans to create jobs and grow small businesses by leveraging $1.3 million of private sector funds in a revolving loan fund targeted within the Promise Zone. The organization plans to create leadership and entrepreneur training for youth and industry-specific re-training opportunities for the local skilled workforce, by partnering with the University of Kentucky Economic Development Initiative and the East Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program. To ensure all youth have access to a high-quality education, Berea College will run evidence-based college and career readiness programs for high school students in the Promise Zone, while Eastern Kentucky University will expand technical education programs. A total of 20 Promise Zones will be announced over the next three years. ###
12.05.2013	David Thomas, Chief of Staff WASHINGTON, D.C. -- ?U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes David Thomas as his new Chief of Staff in Washington, D.C. Thomas is a proven government affairs professional, having served as a trusted advisor in the White House during the second Bush Administration, as Chief of Staff for U.S. Rep. Tom Davis (VA-11) for five years, and most recently as Executive Director of the Republican Main Street Partnership in Washington, D.C. "David Thomas brings a wealth of impressive legislative and policy experience to my staff," said Rogers. "As a native of neighboring Virginia, he also understands the critical issues of our Appalachian region and I'm confident he will serve as a bolstering voice for the needs of southern and eastern Kentuckians." Thomas is a graduate of George Mason University and led presidential campaign activities for President George W. Bush in the state of Washington, among several successful Congressional campaigns. Thomas will be replacing Michael R. Higdon who is transitioning to the private sector. After nearly 12 years serving Rogers as a leading advisor, including the last three years as Chief of Staff, Higdon has accepted a position in the private sector. "For over a decade, Michael has served in my inner circle as a trusted friend, erudite leader, and thoughtful advisor on a wide spectrum of political and policy issues before the Congress," said Rogers. "He shares a deep understanding and heart-felt commitment to Kentucky, the Appropriations Committee, and public service and I know he will serve others with excellent care." Thomas will work in partnership with Rogers' District Director Karen Kelly in Somerset, Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
12.05.2013	FRANKFORT, Ky. – Several media outlets will broadcast or stream the upcoming “SOAR: Shaping Our Appalachian Region” Summit live on Dec. 9, allowing even more Kentuckians to learn about plans and strategies for Kentucky’s southern and eastern region. The SOAR Summit, spearheaded by Governor Steve Beshear and U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers, is open to any individual who cares about Kentucky’s Appalachian region and is willing to share new ideas and recommendations about how to move the region forward. Live coverage of the SOAR Summit will air on WYMT-TV (CBS) and online at WYMT.com, as well as on KET-TV and online at KET.org/live. Live coverage will include discussions from the main auditorium throughout the day. PIKE-TV will live-stream most of the day’s events at piketv.com. The summit will also be recorded for later broadcast on PIKE-TV. On Monday evening at 7 p.m. EST, WYMT Issues and Answers will feature Congressman Rogers and Governor Beshear with host Neil Middleton to discuss the SOAR Summit. KET will also present a special program on Monday evening with highlights from the Summit, beginning at 8 p.m. EST on KET and at KET.org/live. The hour-long program, hosted by Bill Goodman, will include excerpts from the SOAR Summit and a discussion with Gov. Beshear and Rep. Rogers. Schools are encouraged to incorporate the SOAR Summit into lesson plans on Dec. 9 and view the live broadcasts to enhance classroom discussions. Kentuckians watching SOAR coverage are encouraged to participate by following the latest updates through social media: “Like” the official SOAR Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and follow SOAR on Twitter @SOAR_EKY, using the hashtags #SOAR and #SOARSummit. More than 1,500 people have registered for the event, which will be held on Monday, Dec. 9 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. Online registration is currently closed, but interested participants can still attend the summit and register for free on site. For more information, please visit kydlgweb.ky.gov. Gov. Beshear, U.S. Rep. Rogers, Senate President Robert Stivers, House Speaker Greg Stumbo and other leaders announced plans for the summit last month. The Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), a national policy institute dedicated fostering solutions to the challenges facing rural regions, will facilitate discussions at the Dec. 9 event. Other national agencies supporting the SOAR effort include the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and the Appalachian Regional Commission. ###
12.04.2013	PRESTONSBURG, Ky -- U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Adam Rice as his new Field Representative for Eastern Kentucky. Rice will serve 15 counties in the Fifth Congressional District including Breathitt, Boyd, Carter, Elliott, Floyd, Johnson, Knott, Lawrence, Letcher, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Rowan, Perry and Pike Counties. “Adam was born and raised in Paintsville and knows first-hand, many of the issues and concerns of the people of our region,” said Rogers. “Adam's experience as an educator, counselor, and coach will will be beneficial in this new role and I am confident that he will be a great resource for Eastern Kentuckians.” Rice brings a wealth of experience and education to the Rogers' team. He has a Bachelor's Degree in History from Eastern Kentucky University, and is currently pursuing a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) from Morehead State University. Rice is a former teacher and coach at Paintsville Independent Schools and has spent the past year and a half as a Substance Abuse Counselor. “I count it a privilege to work in my hometown region and I look forward to helping improve eastern Kentucky along-side Congressman Rogers,” said Rice. "I believe improvements in education and accessing more opportunities are key factors for the betterment of our region and I'm eager to be a part of the new SOAR: "Shaping Our Appalachian Region" initiative to pave a new path forward for our future." Rice will be working along-side Shannon Rickett, Congressman Rogers' Field Representative for the western half of the district. Rice lives in Paintsville and will work out of the Prestonsburg and Hazard district offices. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers onTwitter or on Facebook. ###
11.25.2013	FRANKFORT, Ky. (Nov. 22, 2013) – Job creation, entrepreneurship, tourism, lifelong learning, and leadership development will be among the topics discussed at the upcoming “S.O.A.R.: Shaping Our Appalachian Region” summit next month. Governor Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers released the daylong conference agenda today. Already, more than 1,100 people have registered to attend the summit, which will be held on Monday, Dec. 9 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. In an effort to focus on the future success of southern and eastern Kentucky, Gov. Beshear and Rep. Rogers organized the summit to gather ideas and recommendations about how to move Kentucky’s Appalachian region forward. The summit will be moderated by Chuck Fluharty, President of the Rural Policy Research Institute. Sessions will focus on a number of topics, including how to encourage regional innovation, the importance of infrastructure, and developing youth engagement. One part of the day will be dedicated to the story of the Iron Range Resources & Rehabilitation Board, which channeled the collective energies and ideas of the people of the iron-mining region of northeastern Minnesota to forge a new and successful future. The SOAR Summit will host hundreds of attendees from across southern and eastern Kentucky with varied occupational backgrounds and interests– including individuals representing education, business, nonprofits, arts, finance, tourism, local government and more. The summit is open to any Kentuckian with an interest in the strength and future of Kentucky’s Appalachian region. Interested individuals are invited to attend the SOAR Summit by registering athttps://kydlgweb.ky.gov/. The agenda is available on the website. Kentuckians can also participate in SOAR by following the latest updates through social media: “Like” the Official SOAR Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and follow SOAR on Twitter @SOAR_EKY, using the hashtags #SOAR and #SOARSummit. Click here for a copy of the day’s agenda. ###
11.21.2013	Kentuckians continue to sign up in droves for next month’s “SOAR: Shaping Our Appalachian Region” Summit, an effort spearheaded by Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers to focus on the future success of southern and eastern Kentucky. More than 1,000 people have now registered for the event, which will be held on Monday, Dec. 9 at the East Kentucky Expo Center in Pikeville. The SOAR Summit is open to any individual who cares about Kentucky’s Appalachian region and is willing to share new ideas and recommendations about how to move the region forward. Participation is free, but registration is required athttps://kydlgweb.ky.gov. Kentuckians can also participate in SOAR by following the latest updates through social media: “Like” the Official SOAR Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/ShapingOurAppalachianRegion and follow SOAR on Twitter @SOAR_EKY, using the hashtags #SOAR and #SOARSummit. Gov. Beshear, U.S. Rep. Rogers, Senate President Robert Stivers, House Speaker Greg Stumbo and other leaders announced plans for the summit last month. The Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), a national policy institute dedicated to fostering solutions to the challenges facing rural regions, will facilitate discussions at the Dec. 9 event. Other national agencies supporting the SOAR effort include the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and the Appalachian Regional Commission. ###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds passage of the "Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013" (H.R. 3350), an effort that won bipartisan support in the U.S. House of Representatives after hearing from hundreds of thousands of people who now face losing their healthcare plans due to ObamaCare. Nearly 300,000 Kentuckians alone have received notice of cancellation from their insurance providers. Rogers co-sponsored the bill to allow providers to continue to offer health insurance plans that individuals and families currently have through 2014. "Today, thousands of Kentucky mailboxes are filled with insurance cancellation notices. It's time to relieve Americans from being forced to find new healthcare coverage options as a result of multiple broken promises from the Obama Administration," said Rogers. "Even after admitting you can't keep your health care plan as promised, the President has threatened to veto this bill to fix it. None-the-less this bipartisan effort speaks loudly for people across the country who want to keep the coverage they have trusted year after year. I strongly urge the Senate and the President to listen to the outcry from Americans and move quickly to pass this legislation." Earlier this week, former President Bill Clinton said, "I personally believe even if it takes a change in the law, the President should honor the commitment to the federal government made to those people and let them keep what they got." In fact, Section 1251 of the Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act (ACA) states that “nothing in this Act (or an amendment made by this Act) shall be construed to require that an individual terminate coverage under a group health plan or health insurance in which such individual was enrolled on the date of enactment of this Act.” Congressman Rogers has repeatedly voted to repeal ObamaCare altogether. ###
11.13.2013	FRANKFORT Ky. (Nov. 13, 2013) – Kentuckians who care about the future of southern and eastern Kentucky are responding to the call from Gov. Steve Beshear, U.S. Representative Hal Rogers and other leaders to participate in an effort to focus on the future success of the region. Already 600 people have registered for the Dec. 9 summit titled ‘Shaping our Appalachian Region’ (SOAR), to be held at the Eastern Kentucky Exposition Center in Pikeville. “We know the people who live and work hard in this region are eager to help shape its economic future, and to provide the ideas needed to overcome both short-term and long-term challenges,” Gov. Beshear said. “So this overwhelming response is gratifying, but not surprising.” “We want folks to know that every voice will be heard at this summit, whether by submitting an idea electronically or through face-to-face interactions,” said Congressman Rogers. “The urgency for more jobs is overwhelming, as even more eastern Kentucky coal mines announced layoffs last week. It’s time to get to work, so it’s encouraging to see our people are ready to pitch in on December 9th." Registration remains open for anyone who wants to contribute a voice or vision for strategies to transform the region, build on its strengths and overcome obstacles to success. The summit is open to any Kentuckian with an interest in participating, and is completely free. Register at https://kydlgweb.ky.gov. Gov. Beshear, U.S. Rep. Rogers, Senate President Robert Stivers, House Speaker Greg Stumbo and other leaders announced plans for the summit last month. The Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), a national policy institute dedicated to fostering public dialogue and solutions to the challenges facing rural regions and communities, will help facilitate discussions at the SOAR Summit. Other national and regional agencies supporting the SOAR effort include the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and the Appalachian Regional Commission. ###
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined thousands of coal miners and energy leaders for the "Rally for American Energy Jobs" on Capitol Hill. Along with Rogers, Bell County Judge Executive Albey Brock attended the rally and later testified at a U.S. Energy and Commerce Subcommittee hearing about the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Regulatory Threat to Affordable, Reliable Energy, with a focus on coal communities. "After five years, we know the President is trying to make good on one promise he made - his promise to bankrupt coal!" declared Rogers at the Rally for American Energy Jobs. "These new EPA regulations promise to not only continue dreadful layoffs at our mines, but in our power plants too. This administration needs to realize that coal keeps America running." Several members of Kentucky's Congressional delegation spoke at the rally including U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, U.S. Senator Rand Paul, and U.S. Representative Andy Barr. Following the rally, the House Energy Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing to investigate the impact of EPA rules on the coal-reliant communities and industries. Judge Executive Albey Brock was the first of seven witnesses to testify. "I cannot imagine that the EPA calculated the human impact of their decisions that have so negatively impacted the coal industry in Eastern Kentucky, put thousands of families at risk, and threatened decades of progress," said Brock. "But if they did, they callously disregarded that calculation and violated the most basic, moral imperative of our government, which is to protect its people." Rogers applauded Brock's efforts on Capitol Hill to speak out for the families and communities in Central Appalachia that have been devastated by the Obama administration's War on Coal. "We need more leaders like Judge Executive Brock to stand firm and demand that this Administration stem the tide of unemployment and poverty resulting from the loss of thousands of jobs and upwards of more than one billion dollars in earned wages in our region's economy," said Rogers. Earlier this month, Rogers cosponsored a house resolution requesting the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) hold its public listening sessions on a forthcoming carbon dioxide rule in leading coal states. The proposed rule will significantly impact existing power plant emissions. The resolution requests the sessions to be held in each of the ten states with the highest percentage of electricity generated by coal in 2012. Those states include Kentucky, Indiana, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, West Virginia and Wyoming. Rogers speaks at Rally for American Energy Jobs Judge Exec. Brock and Rogers at the Rally for American Energy Jobs in DC ###
10.28.2013	HAZARD, Ky. (Oct. 28, 2013) – In an effort to focus on the future success of southern and eastern Kentucky, Gov. Steve Beshear and Congressman Hal Rogers today announced that they will host a summit with hundreds of citizens from across the region to share new ideas and recommendations about how to move Kentucky’s Appalachian region forward. The summit, titled “S.O.A.R.: Shaping Our Appalachian Region”, will be held on Monday, Dec. 9 at the Eastern Kentucky Exposition Center in Pikeville. “Eastern Kentucky is a brilliant, storied region that enriches the fabric of our Commonwealth,” said Gov. Beshear. “Yet for several decades, the region has seen a decline in growth and development, hampered by a lack of infrastructure and other resources that communities need to grow and thrive. We know that government alone cannot solve these issues, and that is why Congressman Rogers and I are launching this summit – we believe that to make real progress in Eastern Kentucky, we need the input, collaboration and involvement from the people who live and work hard there every day.” “We are in uncharted waters in southern and eastern Kentucky, where the future of coal faces new regulatory challenges and economic uncertainty is daunting for our small communities,” said Congressman Rogers. “But time and again, the people of our region have proven to be resilient. Over the years, we’ve expanded infrastructure and vital resources to the most rural parts of the Commonwealth, we’ve united in the fight against the prescription drug abuse epidemic, and we’ve partnered across county lines to clean up our hillsides and streams. I am confident that together, we will rise above these new challenges we face. We will overcome!” The nation’s recent recession and economic restructuring have hit the Appalachian region especially hard. While overall rural manufacturing and job growth have improved, the region’s number-one industry continues to decline. In less than two years, more than 6,000 coal miners have been laid off or furloughed in Eastern Kentucky alone, resulting in unbearable economic hardships in many communities. “There is an urgent need for change and a new way of thinking about the issues in Appalachia,” said Gov. Beshear. “We must work together to attack our regional obstacles from many angles – by emphasizing public, private and philanthropic partnerships to address and implement improvements in education, health, work-readiness, infrastructure and more. Most critical, these solutions must be driven and championed by the individuals who call Appalachia home, because it is their enthusiasm and support that will carry these visions to reality.” “Eastern Kentucky is my home; the people here are family,” said Senate President Robert Stivers. “Re-energizing the economy in Eastern Kentucky is going to require thinking ‘outside the box.’ I believe this is a tremendous step in that direction.” “Those of us fortunate enough to call Eastern Kentucky home are deeply committed to seeing it thrive in the future, which is why I believe this summit will prove to be a welcome guide for the direction our region needs to take,” said House Speaker Greg Stumbo. “I want to thank Governor Beshear and Congressman Rogers for their support, and call on others throughout the state to join with us in this effort. I cannot think of a more pressing issue affecting the Commonwealth.” The Governor and Congressman have secured the assistance of the Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), a national policy institute dedicated to fostering public dialogue and solutions to the challenges facing rural regions and communities. RUPRI has coordinated similar regional efforts across the nation and globe, and will help facilitate discussions at the SOAR summit. RUPRI facilitators support the summit’s goal of gathering the many disparate voices of Appalachia and merging their ideas into a cohesive strategy for the region’s success. “Economic growth is the overriding global imperative of all nations, and the key to success is to unlock the unique potential of regions, through collaboration, asset-based development, innovation, and ultimately wealth creation. RUPRI is honored to be working to advance that agenda in this region,” said RUPRI President and CEO Chuck Fluharty. The SOAR Summit will host hundreds of attendees from across southern and eastern Kentucky with varied occupational backgrounds and interests– including individuals representing education, business, nonprofits, arts, finance, tourism, local government and more. The summit is open to any Kentuckian with an interest in the strength and future of Kentucky’s Appalachian region. Interested individuals are invited to attend the SOAR Summit by registering athttps://kydlgweb.ky.gov/ A SOAR planning committee of approximately 40 members will meet in advance of the summit to suggest discussion topics and possible goals. “The leadership and participation of southern and eastern Kentucky families and citizens is critical, not only to supporting the summit, but also to ensure the summit’s long-term impact in the region,” said Congressman Rogers. “The summit is just the beginning of what we hope will be a long-term initiative to bring new opportunities and renewed prosperity to the people of this region, and the Governor and I pledge to be part of the work.” Other national and regional agencies supporting the SOAR effort include the USDA Rural Development and the Appalachian Regional Commission. Rogers & Beshear announce new SOAR initiative for E. Ky. New Soar Logo is Unveiled First SOAR Planning Committee meeting MEDIA NOTES: Click here for a list of the SOAR Planning Committee members Click here to download the SOAR logo ####
10.24.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds today's announcement by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to re-classify America's most abused painkillers, hydrocodone combo drugs, to reflect the high potential for addiction and abuse. The FDA's decision follows an expert advisory panel's recommendation to re-classify painkillers like Vicodin and Lortab from Schedule III to Schedule II controlled substances. "This is a huge, life-saving victory in the fight against the prescription drug abuse epidemic," said Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "The FDA has wisely tightened restrictions on these powerful painkillers in response to the skyrocketing rate of pain pill addiction that has swept the country. I believe this will lead to smarter medicine and a reduction in the deadly consequences of abuse and misuse of these hydrocodone drugs. I applaud the serious leadership on this issue of FDA Commissioner Dr. Margaret Hamburg." While the United States makes up only 4.6 percent of the world’s population, it consumes 99 percent of its hydrocodone. Emergency room visits involving hydrocodone rose from 38,000 in 2004 to more than 115,000 in 2010. These drugs are now the most widely prescribed painkillers in the U.S. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has supported this change since 1994 and an expert advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently voted 19-10 in favor of re-classifying hydrocodone painkillers as Schedule II controlled substances. Earlier this year, several members of Congress, including Rogers, urged FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg to adopt the board’s recommendation immediately. In March, Rogers also joined more than 40 bipartisan members of Congress to co-sponsor the "Safe Prescribing Act of 2013" (H.R. 1285). The restrictions on prescribing and using Schedule III drugs are much less stringent than those for Schedule II products. Under Schedule II, a written prescription is required in order to receive hydrocodone painkillers except in cases of emergency. Pharmacists must require patients to present an original prescription for refills, and traffickers are be subject to harsher fines and penalties. Click here to read the FDA statement from the director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Dr. Janet Woodcock. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
10.04.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) cosponsored a house resolution requesting the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) hold its public listening sessions on a forthcoming carbon dioxide rule in leading coal states. The proposed rule will significantly impact existing power plant emissions. The resolution requests the sessions to be held in each of the ten states with the highest percentage of electricity generated by coal in 2012. Those states include Kentucky, Indiana, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, West Virginia and Wyoming. Currently, the EPA has omitted major coal generating states from its public schedule. "If the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) wants to hear from real stakeholders about its latest climate change initiative, the agency ought to include a public hearing stop in Central Appalachia. There's no region with more at stake in Obama's new climate agenda than our coalfields and the region's existing fleet of coal plants - a region where more than 6,200 eastern Kentucky coal miners have already lost their jobs in less than two years and where coal plants are struggling to make costly environmental upgrades," said Rogers. "Our people would love to 'play an important role in helping EPA develop smart, cost-effective guidelines' without having to attend a hearing thousands of miles away." President Obama announced that the EPA would propose regulations on greenhouse gas emissions for existing coal-fired power plants next summer, in June 2014. This follows on the heels of the Administration's new and controversial carbon sequestration requirements for new coal-fired power plants, announced on September 20, 2013. On September 30, 2013, the EPA announced its public listening sessions scheduled in preparation for those regulations would be held in Boston, New York City, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Denver, Lenexa, San Franscisco, Washington, D.C., Dallas, Seattle, and Chicago. Nearly 40-percent of all electricity generated in the United States comes from coal. However, not a single session was scheduled in one of the top ten states with the highest percentage of electricity generated from coal. ####
10.03.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) introduced Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) Founder, Bill Neikirk to speak to the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in Washington, D.C. During the hearing, Rogers and Neikirk explained the national historic significance of the Battle of Mill Springs. Rogers introduced legislation requesting a Mill Springs Battlefield Feasibility Study (H.R. 298) to evaluate the potential adoption of this important site into the National Park Service. "The U.S. Department of Interior classified the Battle of Mill Springs as one of the most important battles in the western theater of the Civil War, and labeled the site an endangered battlefield in Kentucky," said Rogers. "Thanks to Bill and the group he founded, the Mill Springs Battlefield Association, hundreds of acres of battlefield land have been diligently preserved." Through a partnership of public and private funds, the MSBA has constructed a 10,000 square foot visitor's center and museum, established interpretive signage, and led driving and walking tours of the battle. Thousands of visitors and students now visit the site each year. Mr. Neikirk expressed the desire of the MSBA to turn over its work to the National Park Service and the people of the United States, in hopes of ensuring the battlefield will be preserved for generations to follow. This hearing was the first step in the committee process, where witness testimony is given and lawmakers have the opportunity to ask questions about the legislation before them. Rogers encouraged subcommittee members to pass the bill on to the full committee for consideration. ###
09.26.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and several colleagues representing the coalfields of Central Appalachia joined a pro-coal, pro-jobs press conference in response to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) latest assault on coal with new overreaching regulations. The event was hosted by the House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Ed Whitfield and included the entire Kentucky Republican delegation: Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator Rand Paul, Congressman Brett Guthrie, Congressman Andy Barr, and Congressman Thomas Massie. "Through the President's deliberate strangulation by regulation, 6,200 coal miners in my district are out of a job," said Rogers to the crowd outside of the U.S. Capitol Building. "This administration needs to realize that coal is our best strategic energy resource and keeps our utility bills low. Coal puts food on the table and keeps our manufacturing businesses humming. Coal keeps the lights on!" On Friday, September 20th, the EPA released the first-ever proposed carbon limits on future coal-fired power plants in an effort to move the country away from burning one of the nation's cheapest sources of energy. The President also gave the EPA a timeline to set new standards for the nation's current coal-fired power fleet next summer. In an effort to halt the President's War on Coal, Congressman Rogers has slashed the EPA's budget by 46%, supported pro-coal legislation, like the Ensure Reliable and Affordable American Energy Act (H.R. 3104), and continues to meet with a number leaders across the country and the Commonwealth to develop pro-growth solutions for the Fifth Congressional District and the Central Appalachian coalfields. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
09.18.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Lincoln County native, Nick Camic to his Washington, DC office staff to serve as a Staff Assistant. "It's great to have another southern Kentuckian in my office on Capitol Hill who inherently knows the issues we face and has a passion to help his home region," said Rogers. "Nick is an impressive individual who grew up on a registered Angus beef cattle farm near Stanford, earned the rank of Eagle Scout, and graduated from the University of Kentucky. He's a true blue native of the region who is eager to help families and businesses across the Fifth Congressional District." Nick Camic graduated from the University of Kentucky in May with Bachelor's degrees in History and English. He served as President of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and worked diligently with the Student Government Association and various organizations on campus. "To be granted the opportunity to serve our region is truly an honor," said Camic. "I love Kentucky dearly and I thoroughly enjoy learning from Congressman Rogers, who tirelessly works for innovative opportunities to improve southern and eastern Kentucky. I look forward to meeting the countless visitors from home when they make a trip to the DC office." Nick Camic is the son of Michael and Leslie Camic of Lincoln County. His grandfather is Roy Camic and his sister is Caitlin. Rogers Welcomes Nick Camic to DC Staff ###
09.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) new class-wide safety labeling changes for prescription painkillers. For more than a decade, Rogers has pushed the FDA to take action to reduce the abuse of these powerful medications. Specifically, Rogers has urged that the indication for opioid narcotics be changed from "moderate-to-severe pain" to "severe pain" only, so that physicians are fully aware of the safety concerns before unnecessarily prescribing highly addictive painkillers to patients. Today's announcement by the FDA will help ensure that these drugs are only prescribed for patients suffering from chronic, long-term pain. "Step by step, we are paving the way for smarter, life-saving practices for prescription painkillers. For far too long, misguided labels, over-prescription, and misunderstanding about the power of pain pills have led to unnecessary addictions. These practices have resulted in untold societal costs of drug treatment, lost wages and jobs, drug-exposed babies, and thousands of accidental overdose deaths nationwide," said Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "This announcement by the FDA is potentially a game-changer, and I applaud Dr. Hamburg for using her authority to tighten the guidelines for prescribing these powerful drugs. Lives will be saved because of this decision." FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, M.D. said the agency invoked its authority to require safer labels "to combat the crisis of misue, abuse, addiction, overdose, and death from these potent drugs that have harmed too many patients and devastated too many families." This decision comes after Rogers and six members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse pressed the FDA to take action on safety labeling of opioids in August 2012. In a letter to the FDA, the Caucus noted that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had reported the amount of painkillers sold was four times larger in 2010 than in 1999. The letter warned the FDA of the correlation between increased sales and the growing number of overdose deaths and substance abuse treatment admissions. The new labels will include a new boxed warning on neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, and new postmarked study requirements for all extended-release and long-acting (ER/LA) opioid analgesics intended to treat pain. FDA is requiring a new boxed warning on ER/LA opioid analgesics to caution that chronic maternal use of these products during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome (NOWS), which may be life-threatening and require management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. NOWS can occur in a newborn exposed to opioid drugs while in the mother’s womb. Symptoms may include poor feeding, rapid breathing, trembling, and excessive or high-pitched crying. In Kentucky, reports show a 2,400% increase in drug-exposed newborns in a decade. In 2011, 730 babies were reportedly diagnosed with neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) compared to only 67 in 2001. Meanwhile, nurseries across the nation reported a 330% increase in NAS from 2000 to 2009, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association. These new FDA labels are designed to raise awareness of newborn dependency as well. Rogers co-founded the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
08.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) welcomed rising country music star Jimmy Rose at his Open House on Monday, August 19th for the new Hazard Congressional Office. "There is no one in recent history who has done more to bring national attention in a positive light to the coal industry," said Rogers. "There are only a few people who go the extra mile for our region, and I like to call them "Difference Makers." Jimmy Rose is certainly a "Difference Maker," both for honoring this region with his original song on a national television show and his valiant service in Iraq as a U.S. Marine." After accepting the "Difference Maker Award" from Congressman Rogers, Rose spoke about following his dream in the national spotlight. "I'm proud to represent this area in a positive way, because we have so much negativity that goes on. It's just an honor to have your support," said Rose. "Hopefully I can be a light to those out there who want to go after what they want to go after and realize that dreams can come true. It's how hard you work for it." Rose thanked Rogers for sending him two American flags to fly over his bunker during his military tour in Iraq. Rose had requested a flag from Rogers through email while overseas and now proudly displays the flag at home. During the celebration, Dean Osborne and students from the Kentucky School of Bluegrass and Traditional Music provided music for the event. Rogers also presented two PRIDE Spring Cleanup Awards. Floyd County PRIDE Coordinator Ella Clay accepted the 2013 County Volunteer Recruitment Award. Floyd County won the award by having the greatest increase in volunteer turn-out. Rogers announced Boy Scout Troop 90 from Perry County as the September PRIDE Volunteers of the Month. In April, the Boy Scouts cleaned up 22 bags of trash at Buckhorn Lake. They also keep the Eagles Landing Camp Ground cleaned up and they routinely pick-up roadside litter around several neighborhoods in the Hazard area. Attendees toured the new office and met with Congressional staff. The Hazard Congressional Office is open Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and the phone number is 606-439-0794. The new office is located at 48 South Kentucky Highway 15, beside of CVS Pharmacy. To view photos from the Hazard Open House with Congressman Rogers and Jimmy Rose, visit http://halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. Rogers presents Rose with a Difference Maker Award ####
08.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) attended a community luncheon at Happy Top in Beattyville, Kentucky on Monday, August 19th to provide a Washington update and to honor a member of his staff on the House Appropriations Committee, Will Smith, who is a native of Lee County. "I've been fighting to cut waste from Washington and rein in overreaching agencies like the EPA and the IRS. My main advisor and legislative engineer for those cuts and policy reforms has been your very own, Will Smith from Beattyville," said Rogers who serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. "Will is one of the smartest political tacticians in Washington and I'm proud that he is an Eastern Kentuckian." Rogers presented Smith with an Award of Appreciation for serving on his staff for the last 15 years. "In a town where a lot of people lose their way, he never let me forget where I came from," said Smith, who was promoted to Staff Director of the House Appropriations Committee in March. "He consistently reminds me there's always someone who needs a helping hand and there's always something that needs fixing." The Hill, a congressional newspaper in Washington, DC recently named Smith one of the 100 people to watch this fall. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. PHOTO: Rogers Honors Will Smith ####
08.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) invites everyone to an Open House of his new Congressional Office on Monday, August 19th at 3:30 p.m. in Hazard, Kentucky. The celebration will feature rising country music star Jimmy Rose, as well as Dean Osborne and students from the Kentucky School of Bluegrass and Traditional Music. "I hope everyone will join us for a great day of fellowship, food and music at my new Hazard office location," said Rogers. "The Open House will give folks a chance to get acquainted with my staff and find out more about the services that are available for the people of Southern and Eastern Kentucky." The new Hazard office is located at 48 South Kentucky Highway 15 beside CVS Pharmacy. Extra parking will be available in the Black Gold Shopping Center and shuttle service will be provided. For more information call Congressman Rogers' office toll-free at 1-800-632-8588. ###
08.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers made his first official visit to Carter County on Tuesday, August 13th since the county was added to Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District at the beginning of the year. Rogers joined Kentucky Christian University to announce new scholarships for Congressional Award Gold Medalists. KCU is the first post-secondary institution in Kentucky to offer scholarships to students in the Congressional Award program. "Our students face much more competition today, and I believe the Congressional Award program helps them to become well-rounded, goal-oriented achievers," said Rogers. "I commend Kentucky Christian University and President, Dr. Jeff Metcalf, for investing in our future leaders with this scholarship opportunity." The Congressional Award program is open to students from 14- to 23-years-old and requires goals to be set in four areas of achievement: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. For more information about the Congressional Award program, visit http://congressionalaward.org. Also at KCU, Rogers joined the Grayson Area Chamber of Commerce for the civic organization's monthly meeting. Rogers provided the crowd of more than 100 attendees with a Washington Update about the Affordable Care Act (or ObamaCare) and the Obama Administration's "War on Coal." "We haven't been able to repeal ObamaCare, but we're doing our best to slow it down by slashing the IRS budget by 24% and prohibiting the federal agency from enforcing the healthcare law," said Rogers. "I've also tried to throw roadblocks in front of the EPA's destructive, job-killing regulations. We've lost 5,800 coal mining jobs in the last 18 months in eastern Kentucky alone. It's time to stop the War on Coal and put our families back to work." Rogers also applauded new local partnerships with the UNITE and PRIDE programs. Rogers presented the Chairman of the Carter County "Enough" Drug-Free Coalition, Jim Varney with a "Difference Maker Award" for his efforts to help families and individuals grappling with addiction. Jim and his wife Debbie also operate the local Lifeline Recovery Program. ###
08.08.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers commended leaders of the Harlan County Boys and Girls Club for their continued efforts to provide drug-free education and positive activities to young people in Harlan County. "You can't underestimate the work you're doing in the lives of the 2,000 young people who walk through these doors every year," said Rogers. "We learned through UNITE, that the average age of first drug use in our region is age 11, so we must mentor our youth and help them understand the importance of making good choices." In the midst of rampant prescription drug abuse in the region, Rogers reminded the crowd of about 150 people not to forget about the dangers of marijuana. Even as some states have legalized medical marijuana, the illegal crop is still booming in Kentucky. Frank Rapier, Director of Appalachia HIDTA (High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area) said the agency's region, covering Kentucky, West Virginia, and Tennessee is number one in the country for marijuana cultivation. "Marijuana is still the 'gateway drug.' Regardless of what type of drug is found during a drug bust, marijuana is always the common thread," said Rapier. "We have to continue educating the public about the link between marijuana and other drug use." Rogers encouraged community leaders to stay involved with youth programs and activities offered by the Boys and Girls Club, Operation UNITE, PRIDE and other non-profit organizations. He presented the K.C.E.O.C. Community Action Agency with the first place award for the non-profit organization that recruited the most volunteers for the 2013 PRIDE Spring Clean-up. The group of 930 volunteers collected 910 bags of trash and cleaned 19 roadways. Rogers also presented Harlan County Public Library Director, Richard Haynes with more than 100 books from the U.S. Library of Congress' surplus book supply. So far, Rogers has delivered more than 1,000 books to libraries and schools across the region from the surplus supply. ###
08.06.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) participated in a "Business and ObamaCare Roundtable" with the London-Laurel County Chamber of Commerce on Monday, August 5, 2013. Local business owners and insurance agents shared their concerns about the new "Affordable Care Act," also known as ObamaCare. "There is nothing affordable about the "Affordable Care Act" and that's why I have voted to repeal the law 40 times," said Rogers. "We're still waiting for a lot of answers about ObamaCare, but we know that insurance premiums in Kentucky are expected to increase somewhere between 65 and 100-percent; employers are already starting to cut full-time employees down to part-time; the law puts government between you and your doctor; and after all is said and done, 30 million Americans could still be uninsured." One hundred people attended the Chamber event, including local business owner, Shane Richmond from Wildcat Harley-Davidson in London, Kentucky. "We have been looking to expand," explained Richmond, who employees about 50 people in London. "We would like to open a store in Somerset, but we're pulling back until we find out how these laws will work." Under the current law, small business owners who employ 50 or more full-time employees, are required to provide healthcare insurance. In effort to slow down ObamaCare, the House Appropriations Committee, of which Rogers serves as Chairman, passed a bill last week that cuts the IRS budget by 32% and restricts the federal agency from utilizing any funding to enforce ObamaCare or collect penalty fees. During the roundtable discussion, John Clay, of Better Source Benefits, presented Rogers with a Congressional Service Award from the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA). To receive updates about ObamaCare, visit www.halrogers.house.gov and sign up to receive Rogers' e-newsletters. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers Rogers Calls ObamaCare Unaffordable and Unworkable ####
08.06.2013	Dear Friend, I look forward to traveling across Southern and Eastern Kentucky over the next several weeks. I plan to visit Carter, Clay, Floyd, Harlan, Jackson, Laurel, Lee, Perry and Pike Counties in the first two weeks alone, with more to follow. You're invited to join me at all of the following events: Monday, August 5th at 6:00 p.m.: Cowboy Up for Christ at the Triple R Ranch in Jackson County, where approximately 150 young people are encouraged to stay drug-free by participating in equestrian activities. Click here for directions. Thursday, August 8th at 11:00 a.m.: Harlan County Boys and Girls Club, located at 1 Positive Place in Harlan, Kentucky. Thursday, August 8th at 1:00 p.m.: Dorton Community Park - Press Conference about Marijuana Education with Appalachia HIDTA and the Kentucky National Guard. The park is located on Dorton Hill Road off of US Hwy. 23 in Dorton, Kentucky. Friday, August 9th at 1:00 p.m.: New Phelps Elementary School Grand Opening located at 11672 Phelps 632 Road in Phelps, Kentucky. Tuesday, August 13 at 11:15 a.m.: Kentucky Christian University Announcement about the Congressional Award Program. The announcement will be made in the KCU Nash-Chapel Auditorium located at 100 Academic Parkway in Grayson, Kentucky. Tuesday, August 13th at 12:00 p.m.: Grayson Area Chamber of Commerce Annual Monthly Meeting where I will be the keynote speaker. The chamber will meet in the McKenzie Student Life Center Student Lounge on the campus of Kentucky Christian University located at 100 Academic Parkway in Grayson, Kentucky. Wednesday, August 14th at 10:30 a.m.: Perry County meeting with the faith-based community to address the drug abuse epidemic. The event will be held at the Perry County Public Library located at 289 Black Gold Blvd. in Hazard, Kentucky. Wednesday, August 14th at 1:00 p.m.: Appalachian Innovations Collaborative Summer Meeting at the Big Sandy Community and Technical College, located at 1 Bert T. Combs Drive in Prestonsburg, Kentucky. The entire summer meeting begins at 8:00 a.m. and ends at 3:00 p.m. Friday, August 16th at 1:00 p.m.: UNITE Treatment and Drug-Free Education Announcements at the EKU-Manchester Campus. Operation UNITE will unveil new treatment and drug-free education tools to be used statewide. Guests include: First Lady Jane Beshear, Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers, EKU President Dr. Michael Benson, and Chad's Hope. The event will be held in the Stivers Building located at 50 University Drive in Manchester, Kentucky. Monday, August 19th at 12:00 p.m.: Lee County Community Luncheon at the Happy Top Community Center located at 500 Happy Top Road in Beattyville, Kentucky. Monday, August 19th at 3:30 p.m.: Hazard Congressional Office Open-House, featuring rising country music star, Jimmy Rose. If you haven't visited my new Hazard office, I invite you to swing by. The new Hazard office is located at 48 South Kentucky Highway 15, beside CVS Pharmacy. For more information about any of these events, please call my Somerset District Office at 1-800-632-8588. ------- If you would like to receive more frequent updates on what's happening in Washington, please send me an email, join myFacebook page, follow me on Twitter, or subscribe to my YouTube channel. Thank you to everyone who has dropped by to share your opinion -- let's keep the dialogue going! Sincerely, Hal
08.06.2013	ANNVILLE, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined Operation UNITE on Monday, August 5, 2013 to visit a drug-free educational program located at the Triple R Ranch in Jackson County called "Cowboy Up for Christ." Community leaders use equestrian activities to teach young people about the dangers of drugs each week. "The answer to the drug epidemic is not in government, it's right here," said Rogers. "This is ground zero, where we can have the greatest impact on our young people through education and you're doing great work." "Cowboy Up for Christ" is operated by Brad and Kim Hornsby near Annville, Kentucky where more than 100 children learn about caring for horses and equestrian events every week. The couple's faith-based mission is designed to help young people find interest in positive activities. "This ranch was once the site of a drug dealer's operations, but after Operation UNITE successfully put an end to the illegal activity several years ago, the Hornsby family had a greater vision and turned this place into an impressive ranch to change lives," said Rogers. Rogers presented the Hornsby family with a "Difference Maker Award" for their efforts in the fight against the drug epidemic in our region. Hundreds of people visit the ranch every month from Jackson and surrounding counties, along with visitors from across the nation. Rogers encouraged community leaders to continue their efforts to provide positive alternatives for young people through programs like PRIDE and UNITE. He commended the efforts of PRIDE Spring Clean-up volunteers in Jackson County where 1,379 volunteers cleaned up 110 tons of trash, collected 140 old tires, 4.04 tons of appliances and cleaned 259 miles of roadway. Rogers presented the 2013 PRIDE Spring Clean-Up first runner-up award for "Greatest Volunteer Participation" to Jackson County. Solid Waste Coordinator, Barry Spivey accepted the award for Jackson County. Rogers also presented the August 2013 PRIDE Volunteer of the Month Award to the Masonic Temples of Jackson County. Masons from four Masonic Lodges: Pond Fork, R.H. Johnson, New Zion and Indian Creek have volunteered with PRIDE for the past ten years. This year, they cleaned eight miles of roadway and collected 500 pounds of trash. They adopted Beulah Lake in 2004 and have since hosted a clean-up event on the first Saturday of October every year. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers Rogers Commends Brad Hornsby for his work ####
07.31.2013	House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers gave the following statement on the removal of the Transportation/Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill from floor consideration today: “The Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development funding bill that was pulled from floor consideration today was the first major attempt by the House to consider and pass an Appropriations bill that funds domestic programs under the austere level delineated under the Budget Control Act and the House budget resolution. “The bill today reflected the best possible effort, under an open process, to fund programs important to the American people – including our highway, air and rail systems, housing for our poorest families, and improvements to local communities – while also making the deep cuts necessary under the current budget cap. In order to abide by sequestration budget levels, this bill cut $4.4 billion below the current, post-sequestration total to a level below what was approved for these programs in 2006 – over seven years ago. “I am extremely disappointed with the decision to pull the bill from the House calendar today. The prospects for passing this bill in September are bleak at best, given the vote count on passage that was apparent this afternoon. With this action, the House has declined to proceed on the implementation of the very budget it adopted just three months ago. Thus, I believe that the House has made its choice: sequestration – and its unrealistic and ill-conceived discretionary cuts – must be brought to an end. And, it is also clear that the higher funding levels advocated by the Senate are also simply not achievable in this Congress. “This Congress must now deal in a productive way to address the nation’s crippling deficits and debt to put our budget back on a sustainable and responsible path. This means that all government programs – not just those on the discretionary side of the ledger – must be reduced. Spending reductions in mandatory and entitlement programs, which are the drivers of our deficits and debt, are the most effective way to enact meaningful change in the trajectory of federal spending. The House, Senate and White House must come together as soon as possible on a comprehensive compromise that repeals sequestration, takes the nation off this lurching path from fiscal crisis to fiscal crisis, reduces our deficits and debt, and provides a realistic topline discretionary spending level to fund the government in a responsible – and attainable – way.” #####
07.30.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) gave the keynote address during the opening ceremony of the 2013 Kentucky Association of Chiefs of Police (K.A.C.P.) Annual Conference, where more than 130 police chiefs from across the Commonwealth are gathered in Lexington, Kentucky. "Unfortunately, we've had several recent reminders of the risks involved with bravely serving and protecting the people of Kentucky. And we pray for the two survivors of the helicopter crash that happened during a marijuana eradication mission in Breathitt County on Monday," said Rogers. "Our police officers have been on the front lines in the war on drugs for many years and I commend their on-going efforts. As a former prosecutor, I understand the value of a well-trained, diligent law enforcement community and we stand with you shoulder-to-shoulder." Rogers also applauded the police departments that are working to earn accreditation for their agencies, which is a mission of the KACP. "By being an accredited agency, you are ensuring transparency and trust in our law enforcement," said Rogers. Operation UNITE hosted the K.A.C.P. Conference for the first time since its inception, as UNITE chief, Dan Smoot, is sworn in as President of the association this week. ####
07.26.2013	Rogers Speaks at Camp UNITE 2013 WILLIAMSBURG, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers encouraged students to "Be a Hero" during the closing ceremonies of the 7th Annual Camp UNITE on Friday, July 26, 2013 on the campus of the University of the Cumberlands.Rogers was introduced by Rockcastle County High School graduate Hannah Eaton who has testified before Congress and spoken to national leaders about the urgency for better legislation and policies in the war on drugs. "I'm incredibly proud of students like Hannah who have lost close family members to drug overdoses, but choose to turn tragedy into hope through education," said Rogers. "Like this year's camp motto, Hannah decided to "Be a Hero" for her community and classmates. She wanted to make a difference and she has." Hannah was one of 19 high school seniors in southern and eastern Kentucky who received one of Operation UNITE's first scholarships through its new "I Am UNITE" scholarship fund created by private donations. "I am so honored to have been given the opportunity to speak to important people like the U.S. Drug Czar, the director of the FDA and the CDC about the drug problem in my county and our region," said Hannah Eaton, a camp counselor. "UNITE has changed my life, so I try to pay-it-forward here at Camp UNITE and be a positive influence for these kids." More than 220 students from 25 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky attended this year's camp that focused on drug-free leadership and adventure. Campers experienced a variety of games and adventures during the 4-day, 3-night camp, including archery, golf, basketball, dance, drama, a talent show and a day at the Kentucky Splash Water Park in Williamsburg. Campers heard from motivational speakers and recovering drug addicts each day. During the ceremony, Rogers presented Williamsburg Mayor Roddy Harrison with a "Difference Maker Award" for his efforts to continue drug-free education in southern Kentucky. "Mayor Harrison and the City of Williamsburg has been a great host for Camp UNITE year after year. And Mayor Harrison is always on the front lines, finding ways to educate his community about drug abuse," said Rogers. To close out Camp UNITE, more than 200 campers decided to sign a pledge to live drug-free. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.25.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) supported several pieces of legislation this week to rein in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Since 2008, President Obama and the EPA have targeted the coal industry in the Appalachian region with overreaching regulations, questionable spending, and a halt on mining permits. In the last year and a half, Kentucky lost 5,700 coal mining jobs, while more than 200 coal-fired power plants across the country have been shut down. "The President has made his mission to bankrupt coal very clear, but I'm fighting for every single coal miner by working to rein in the EPA and this Administration's job-killing agenda," said Rogers. "At every turn, I’ve tried to throw roadblocks in front of the EPA’s destructive rules and rein in the Agency’s out-of-touch regulatory overreach with cuts to its budget. While this Administration has shuttered coal-fired plants and destroyed jobs, Congress is working overtime to protect the American way of life." On July 25, 2013, the House passed the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013, H.R. 2218, which would allow States to develop "coal ash" permit programs, as long as they meet the Federal minimum requirements provided in the bill. In effect, this bill ensures that coal will continue to be an affordable part of our country’s energy supply, while also ensuring that leftover “coal ash” can be recycled for use in our roads, bridges and buildings. Rogers co-sponsored the bill, which now heads to the Senate for action. Earlier this week, the House Appropriations Committee, where Rogers serves as Chairman, introduced the House Appropriations Fiscal Year 2014 Interior and Environment Bill. The bill cuts EPA funding by 34% and includes provisions to address potentially job-killing regulatory actions by the Administration. The bill includes a number of provisions to protect coal mining in Appalachia, including language that would prevent the Administration from moving forward with new regulations on greenhouse gas emissions; the “Stream Buffer Rule;” or the definition of “navigable waters” or “fill material”under the Clean Water Act. Rogers also authored a letter on July 22nd that was co-signed by 22 Members of Congress, opposing EPA mandates that regulate greenhouse gases. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.24.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers released the following statement in response to President Obama's economic speech today in Illinois: "What America needs right now is more jobs, not more repetitious speeches full of ideas that are costing the middle class their 40-hour work weeks and higher health care premiums. It was great to hear the President say he "will not let more inaction get in our way." Mr. President, we agree, it's time for action. It's time to save small businesses and individuals from the unaffordable, unworkable ObamaCare plan; it's time to build the Keystone pipeline; it's time to end the war on coal across the Appalachian region; and it's time to stop pushing an agenda that pulls more taxes out of paychecks. We need jobs, Mr. President, not more bankrupt cities and families." --U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) sent the following congressional letter to President Obamain opposition to the Administration's recently announced intentions to regulate greenhouse gases through the implementation of New Source Performance Standards. Twenty-two Members of Congress joined Rogers in signing onto the letter in support of coal and in opposition to the coordinated and sustained attack on coal mining and coal burning. July 22, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our grave concern about your intentions to implement New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) addressing greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing power plants as outlined in your June 25, 2013 speech at Georgetown University. Circumventing the will of Congress, which has repeatedly voted against carbon regulations, taxes, and cap and trade, this speech directs EPA to take the unprecedented step of imposing an energy tax by regulatory fiat. This catch-all proposal would unfairly penalize existing facilities and almost certainly preclude the construction of new coal-fired plants. We and others have often criticized a “War on Coal” waged by this White House and these accusations were met with firm denial by Administration officials and environmentalist allies. However, given the cumulative impact of continued mining permit delays, EPA regulations, and your annual budgets’ repeated proposed cuts to the Department of Energy’s fossil energy research and development programs, it is hard to come to any conclusion other than that your Administration is systematically trying to eliminate the use of carbon fuels, particularly coal. More to the point, Mr. Daniel P. Schrag of the President’s Council of Advisers on Science and Technology finally feels comfortable admitting: “Politically, the White House is hesitant to say they’re having a war on coal. On the other hand, a war on coal is exactly what’s needed.” This remark by a senior White House “expert” demonstrates that these policies are explicitly an attempt to drive coal from the marketplace. Even before the announcement of the NSPS greenhouse gas rules, the harm inflicted by recent regulatory attacks on jobs and coal were clear. Rules such as Mercury and Air Toxics Standards have raised the cost of doing business in the electric utility industry by billions of dollars annually and mandated pollution control technologies that either do not exist or are commercially unviable. At a time of sustained high unemployment and a weak economic recovery, particularly in Appalachia and the former manufacturing hubs of the Rust Belt currently burdened with double-digit jobless rates, piling on billions of dollars in additional red tape further undermines our economy and weakens the long-term outlook for these communities. For example, between 2011 and 2012, Kentucky lost 5,700 coal jobs, 4,100 of which last year alone – a decline of 29.9%. According to your Administration’s own figures, the number of coal mining jobs dropped by 3,300 in West Virginia in 2012. Statistics like these are repeated throughout our nation’s coal-producing states. As dire as these numbers are, they cannot truly reflect the hardship confronting the proud, hardworking men and women who have been forced into the unemployment lines. Sadly, Appalachia is not alone. Fully one-fifth of the nation’s coal plants – 204 plants across 25 states – closed between 2009 and 2012. Seven EPA regulations proposed over the last four years will cost $16.7 billion annually once fully implemented. Power plants of any type are multiyear, multibillion dollar projects, and this onslaught of regulations will deter the investment in new facilities as older plants are retired and a recovering economy renews energy demand. The rate hikes attendant with the loss of 69,000 megawatts of coal-fired power are forecasted to cost 887,000 mining, utility, shipping, and downstream manufacturing across the country per year. The manufacturing sector, which was making a comeback due largely to affordable energy, will again be put at a cost disadvantage compared to foreign competitors. Ultimately, these policies pose a challenge not only to our economy, but also to our national security. The United States has 250 years worth of domestic coal reserves at current consumption rates. These resources, combined with oil, natural gas, nuclear, and renewables could finally make the United States energy secure – a goal of every presidential Administration since Richard Nixon. We ask that you stand with our constituents, our coal miners, and our coal communities by rejecting these proposed NSPS greenhouse gas regulations to reflect the true commercial realities of different fuel types and control technologies. Staying the present course will only prove disastrous: increasing unemployment, raising costs for American families and businesses, and reducing our energy security. Sincerely, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers U.S. Rep. Shelley Moore Capito U.S. Rep. Nick J. Rahall, II U.S. Rep. Robert Aderholt U.S. Rep. Mike Simpson U.S. Rep. Bill Shuster U.S. Rep. Jo Bonner U.S. Rep. John Carter U.S. Rep. Robert E. Latta U.S. Rep. Brett Guthrie U.S. Rep. Gregg Harper U.S. Rep. Cynthia Lummis U.S. Rep. Phil Roe U.S. Rep. Lou Barletta U.S. Rep. Bill Johnson U.S. Rep. Mike Kelly U.S. Rep. David McKinley U.S. Rep. Todd Rokita U.S. Rep. Steve Stivers U.S. Rep. Thomas Massie U.S. Rep. Andy Barr U.S. Rep. Steve Daines U.S. Rep. Keith Rothfus ###
07.19.2013	WILLIAMSBURG, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers will attend the closing ceremonies of Camp UNITE on Friday, July 26, 2013 on the campus of the University of the Cumberlands in Williamsburg, Kentucky. Rogers helped launch the non-profit, anti-drug organization Operation UNITE that will host the 7th annual camp July 23-26 for students entering 7th-9th grades. More than 240 students from 25 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky are registered for this year's camp that focuses on drug-free leadership and adventure. "Camp UNITE is a great opportunity for students from all walks of life to have fun and share their concerns for the drug problem in their homes, schools and communities. It's heartbreaking to think they are already so aware of the effects of drug abuse, but it gives Operation UNITE a chance to educate these middle school students and support them now," said Rogers. "Thanks to private sponsors, Camp UNITE has been free for every student for seven years. I applaud the staff of UNITE, but also all of the high school and college-age camp counselors who dedicate this week every summer to mentor these young campers." UNITE decided to host the camp for middle school students after a survey of those receiving free UNITE treatment vouchers revealed the average age of first-time drug use was age eleven. Campers will experience a variety of games and adventures during the 4-day, 3-night camp, including archery, golf, basketball, dance, drama, a talent show and a day at the Kentucky Splash Water Park in Wiliamsburg. Recovering drug addicts will share their testimonies and students will hear from motivational speakers. "Many of the campers have been with us every year, and then continue to serve as camp counselors and volunteers as they grow up. It has really become a family atmosphere at Camp UNITE and these students continue to stay in contact with one another through-out the year, helping each other through challenging peer pressure issues at school and family-related drug problems at home," said Dan Smoot, President and CEO of Operation UNITE. "We have a lot of fun, with very little sleep, and at the end of the week most of the kids don't want to leave. That's how we know we're on the right track. We're so thankful to all of the organizations and businesses who make this amazing week possible every year." The theme for 2013 Camp UNITE is "Be a Hero." Follow the week's activities on Facebook and Twitter with @RepHalRogers and @UNITEky. For more information about Camp UNITE visit www.operationunite.org or call UNITE at 606-677-6179. ###
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauds passage of two House bills (H.R. 2667 & H.R. 2668) that will delay the ObamaCare insurance mandates for both businesses and individuals. Earlier this month, the Obama Administration gave businesses a break on the new health care law by suspending the requirement for some companies to supply health insurance for employees until 2015, but failed to extend a similar delay to individuals. Today, House Republicans voted to ensure fair treatment for everyone. "The Obama Administration has known for months that this health care law is a train wreck, but instead of allowing everyone make a stop at the depot, the President sent individuals head-on toward penalties, while giving businesses a break," said Rogers. "With these two bills, House Republicans are ensuring everyone has more time to purchase insurance or make the switch over to the complicated and costly ObamaCare insurance exchange, before facing more out-of-pocket expenses through federal penalties. Ultimately, we need a permanent delay, rather than this temporary relief." Meanwhile, the jobs report for June revealed employers are concerned about the insurance mandates. The report revealed full-time jobs declined by 240,000, while part-time jobs rose to an all-time high. "Employers are choosing to cut back hours for employees to bypass these costly health care mandates," said Rogers. "The full-time, forty-hour work week is already dwindling, yet the President calls his health care law 'wonderful.' Millions of families across the country are not only still left without health care coverage, but they now face getting fewer hours on their paychecks." Additionally, the House version of the Fiscal Year 2014 Financial Services Appropriations Bill includes provisions to stop the IRS from implementing ObamaCare, including a prohibition on any transfers of funding from the Department of Health and Human Services for ObamaCare implementation, and a prohibition on funding for the IRS to implement an individual insurance mandate on the American people. With Rogers' leadership, this bill passed out of committee on July 17, 2013 and awaits House floor consideration. ###
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the House Floor on behalf of coal miners across the country, condemning President Obama's Climate Action Plan that was unveiled on Tuesday, June 25th. Click the photo to watch Congressman Rogers' speech on YouTube Floor Speech on Obama’s War on Coal June 26, 2013 – U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers "Mister Speaker, American coal families are under attack – not from a foreign power or a natural disaster, but by an Administration that has resolutely, perversely, and now overtly proposed to end coal mining and coal-fired power generation in these United States. "President Obama’s calamitous climate change plan, announced yesterday, is the latest job-killing bomb to be dropped on Kentucky, West Virginia, Illinois and dozens of other coal states already knocked down after four years of anti-coal policies. This Administration has used code words like, “streamlining” and “permit reviews” to shell our communities with regulations and red tape that even the most sophisticated businesses can’t adhere to. "Now the White House is dismantling our strategic energy advantage and unilaterally disarming our economy in broad daylight! I quote White House climate adviser Daniel Schrag, “a war on coal is exactly what’s needed.” End quote. "Mister Speaker, a war on coal is exactly what is not needed. A war on coal is a war on middle class Americans - it’s a war on jobs – all kinds of jobs. It’s already claimed 5,700 direct Kentucky jobs in just a year and a half – the vast majority of those in my economically challenged district! There is no recovery in Inez or high-tech boom in Harlan, Mr. President. My families are struggling to get back to work, pay their bills, or find salaries comparable to coal mining. And my communities are losing their main employers. "This climate plan makes the situation worse, dimming the prospects of reopening the mines even further! Moreover, this disastrous climate change plan is a plan for America’s economic and security decline. This plan will only lead to higher electric bills and increased dependence on foreign energy sources. "And to think someone has the audacity to say, “We need a war on coal.” We need a war on this line of thinking! "This Administration’s stringent rules and absurd mandates are simply meant to force coal-fired power plants to stop burning coal or shutter the facilities altogether. I call it strangulation by regulation. Mr. Speaker, more than 200 coal plants have already closed across 25 states, and now seven new EPA regulations are on track to do even more damage. I’m losing one of the biggest employers in Lawrence County to this onslaught – 120 good-paying jobs. "In total, the closure of mines, shuttering of power plants, and resulting hikes in electric rates are expected to cost the US economy some 887,000 jobs per year. Please tell me how this is in our national interest, how this is leading America forward. "In 2008, this President promised to bankrupt the coalfields and yesterday he took another step toward his reckless, shameful goal." ####
06.06.2013	On June 6, 2013, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the fiscal year 2014 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill (H.R. 2217) by a vote of 245-182. The legislation provides funding to help strengthen America’s homeland security efforts while cutting wasteful or unnecessary programs. “I applaud the passage of this important legislation. In such austere budget times, this bill rightly prioritizes spending on programs that save American lives. Frontline protection, terrorism prevention and response, disaster recovery assistance, and a strong and security border – all of these are paramount to the safety and security of our homeland,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. Click the picture above to see Congressman Rogers speaking on the House floor in support of the FY14 DHS Appropriations bill. The legislation includes $38.9 billion in discretionary funding for DHS. This is a decrease of $617.6 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and a decrease of $34.9 million compared to the President’s request. This funding level is approximately $981 million above the current, post-sequestration level for DHS as estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. For a list of amendments to H.R. 2217 adopted by the House, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/06.05.13_FY_2014_Homeland_Security_Bill_-_Floor_Adopted_Amendments.pdf Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. #####
05.30.2013	HAZARD, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined the Eastern Kentucky Concentrated Employment Program (EKCEP) in Hazard, Kentucky to announce the expansion of Kentucky Teleworks and to commend the organization for working with Community Action Agencies across the region to assist laid-off coal miners with career advising, furthering their education and finding quality employment through the Hiring Our Miners Everyday (H.O.M.E.) Program. "Kentucky has lost 5,700 coal mining jobs in the last 18 months, devastating the industry that has been a key economic engine for our rural region," said Rogers. "I am always thrilled to talk about job creation and company expansions, but now more than ever before, economic development is vital to our coal mining families who are struggling to find comparable salaries. I'm especially proud of the HOME Program and our Community Action Agencies that are working around the clock to assist our coal mining families." The H.O.M.E. Program offers to pay employers 75% of a former coal miner's salary during on-the-job training for a new career. Since December 2012, the program has assisted more than 1,000 coal miners and their spouses find a job or gain access to career training or post-secondary education, according to EKCEP officials. Rogers commended Bridgett Back for her tireless efforts to recruit employers and assist coal miners at the L.K.L.P. Community Action Agency. Rogers also announced the expansion of EKCEP's Kentucky Teleworks program. The program works with national and global companies to provide customer service assistance from anywhere in the world, including your own home. Anyone with the required phone and internet services are eligible to apply for a pool of 1,000 jobs through Kentucky Teleworks. For individuals without the required phone and internet services, EKCEP created a hub at its Hazard headquarters where employees have access to the tools they need. After the event, officials participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony to celebrate the grand opening of the Hazard hub for Kentucky Teleworks. "Kentucky Teleworks is the newest resident of Silicon Holler," said Rogers. "The program has been so successful, EKCEP announced it will be opening an additional hub in Jackson County, in partnership with Jackson Energy and the Appalachian Regional Commission. These jobs remove travel restrictions and thanks to the EKCEP hubs, individuals will not be hampered by the lack of technology in their homes." EKCEP Executive Director Jeff Whitehead said both initiatives fall perfectly in line with Rogers' vision for Eastern Kentucky's future. "We truly can have it all. We can have our mountains and our coal mining, and new job opportunities," Whitehead said. "And now, thanks to 21st century technology, when it comes to economic development and bringing jobs to our region, we're as flat as Iowa." During the event, Rogers recognized local efforts in partnership with the UNITE and PRIDE programs. This year, UNITE kicked off a scholarship program for high school seniors across the region who are active UNITE Club members and display leadership qualities at school and in the community. Nineteen high school seniors are receiving a $1,500 scholarship this year. Rogers applauded four of the local scholarship recipients, Jalon Morgan from Leslie County High School and three students from Knott County Central High School, Brian Catron, Kennedy King and Avery Shrum. Rogers also commended several PRIDE volunteers for their efforts in this year's PRIDE Spring Cleanup Campaign. Rogers presented Outstanding Volunteer Recruitment Certificates to Roger Hicks from Knott County, Barry Spivey from Jackson County, Angie Muncy from Leslie County, Gary Cornett from Letcher County, and Rosa Couch from Perry County. Together, they recruited a total of 2,745 volunteers for the month of April. Additionally, Rogers presented Ashley Bowman a "Difference Maker" award for recruiting 2,000 volunteers in Wolfe County this year and his diligent efforts to raise awareness about the importance of recycling. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
05.29.2013	PRESTONSBURG, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) gave a legislative update during a regularly scheduled monthly meeting of local leaders of the Big Sandy Area Development District (A.D.D.) on Tuesday, May 28, 2013 at the Big Sandy A.D.D. headquarters. Rogers commended local leaders for their diligent efforts to recover and rebuild over the last year since several deadly tornadoes swept through the region last March. "Through your leadership, our students missed very little school, dozens of displaced families were provided with immediate housing, businesses quickly re-opened, and you paved the way for new opportunities and job creation after the storm and I applaud you," said Rogers. "I applaud your leadership in working with local, state and federal agencies through the recovery process and I'll continue to stand by you through your long-term efforts." During the meeting, Rogers explained why the House voted last week to repeal ObamaCare for the 37th time since the Affordable Care Act passed three years ago. "We're already losing jobs across the country and employers are finding it will be cheaper to pay the penalties than to provide health insurance for every single employee," explained Rogers. "We simply can't afford ObamaCare. I'm most concerned about our young workers who could see a 200% increase in premiums, according to the Congressional Budget Office." Rogers recently co-sponsored the Coal Jobs Protection Act (H.R. 1829), which would automatically approve 404 coal mining permits if the Environmental Protection Agency fails to respond within 90 days. "In the last 18 months, Kentucky has lost 5,700 coal jobs and all but 200 of those were Eastern Kentucky coal miners," said Rogers. "I have grilled leaders of the EPA time and again, slashing the federal agency's budget with unprecedented cuts along the way, yet this administration has been relentless in its attack on coal. We must be diligent in helping these laid-off miners find employment and work to get our coal mines back on line. And Congress needs to pass the Coal Jobs Protection Act." Shifting from the war on coal, Rogers commended local leaders for their tireless efforts in the war on drugs. Thanks to private donations, Operation UNITE kicked-off the "I Am UNITE" Scholarships for high school seniors on the non-profit organization's tenth anniversary. Nineteen students from across the region will receive a $1,500 scholarship this year. "Some of these students have already helped their own families members and friends get help for drug and alcohol addictions. They are already changing lives with their bold efforts at school and at home. We wish them the very best as they go one to college," stated Rogers. The PRIDE Spring Cleanup campaign wrapped up at the end of April and Rogers delivered some of the in-coming results from the region's successful volunteer efforts. Rogers presented "Outstanding Volunteer Recruitment Certificates" to Ella Clay who recruited 587 volunteers in Floyd County, Lillian Wheeler who recruited 68 volunteers in Johnson County, and Frankie Collett for recruiting 333 volunteers in Magoffin County. Rogers also announced PRIDE's Volunteer of the Month for June is the Upper Chloe Improvement Club, led by Kenneth and Gerrie Kinder. The club collected 1,341 bags of trash, filled four dumpsters and removed 30 old tires across ten miles. "Volunteers are the backbone of PRIDE and each year we are inching toward the milestone of removing one million old tires from our hillsides and streams," said Rogers. "There is nothing as beautiful as the canopy across our Eastern Kentucky mountains and I'm proud to be part of this great organization that reminds us to have PRIDE in our beautiful region." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. PHOTOS: (left to right): Rogers with UNITE Scholars; Rogers with Ella Clay; Rogers with Lillian Wheeler; Rogers with Frankie Collett; Rogers with Upper Chloe Improvement Club; Rogers speaks at the Big Sandy A.D.D. ### MEDIA NOTE: Right click to download high resolution photos
05.29.2013	MARTIN, KY -- U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined local officials in Floyd County on Tuesday, May 28, 2013 for a ribbon-cutting ceremony to commemorate the completion of the new Martin Volunteer Fire Department as part of the Martin Redevelopment project designed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The project includes flood safe redevelopment, mandatory floodplain evacuation, voluntary flood proofing and acquisition, and relocation of public facilities. “This new fire station is a symbol of hope for the City of Martin, where families and businesses have suffered far too long from major flooding,” said Rogers. “The redevelopment site is unique, but for a city that has suffered ten major floods in its history, a drastic plan was required.” Rogers presented the volunteer firefighters with a U.S. Flag that had been flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of this milestone for the City of Martin. Rogers joined Col. Steven McGugan, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Huntington District; Sam Howell, Mayor of Martin; R.D. “Doc” Marshall, Floyd County Judge Executive; and local residents to celebrate the first opening of several facilities planned for the City of Martin. Two additional public facilities are slated for relocation to the new site, the Martin Town Hall and Police Station, as well as the Floyd County Alternative School. During the ceremony, Rogers honored Marlana VanHoose for inspiring thousands of people across Kentucky with her beautiful voice in spite of her physical challenges. VanHoose sang the National Anthem and received a “Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award." Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
05.23.2013	Photo: Rogers Sends Books to Owsley County Public Library Congressman Rogers' Field Rep. Shannon Rickett and Library Director Lesa Marcum SOMERSET, KY - Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Wednesday, May 22, 2013, Rogers' Field Representative Shannon Rickett delivered more than 100 books to the Owsley County Public Library in downtown Booneville, Kentucky. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rickett presented Owlsey County Public Library Director, Lesa Marcum with several boxes of literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Owsley County Library," said Marcum. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has collected books for West Liberty Elementary School and Public Libraries in Knott, Lee, Magoffin, McCreary, and Pulaski Counties. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #####
05.23.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has directed $8.7 million to Kentucky to enhance emergency response and preparedness initiatives. The Commonwealth is eligible for funding for Fiscal Year 2013 through two grants, the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) and the Emergency Management Preparedness Grants (EMPG). Specifically, $3.5 million in SHSP grant funding will be available to implement risk-driven, capabilities-based security strategies to address targets, and $5.24 million in EMPG funding will support Kentucky’s long-standing efforts to enhance, coordinate, and sustain first responders during natural disasters and acts of terrorism. "I applaud these investments by the Department of Homeland Security to ensure each state is capable of sustaining and strengthening security efforts in the midst of budget cuts," said Rogers. "The deadly attack during the Boston Marathon was a reminder that we must maintain our diligence in preparedness and protection across the nation and in the Commonwealth. The Oklahoma tornadoes are also a solemn reminder of the importance of having expertly trained emergency response crews with state-of-the-art technology when disasters strike." Kentucky’s FY 2013 SHSP grant of $3.5 million represents an increase of $658,000 over FY 2012. These funds will help build and sustain Kentucky’s preparedness capabilities while providing local law enforcement with additional tools to prevent and respond to pre-operational activity and other crimes that are precursors or indicators of terrorist activity. This includes new initiatives to support citizen preparedness drills and to strengthen mass casualty planning, training and exercises among law enforcement, fire, and emergency medical service providers. The EMPG Program assists state and local governments in enhancing and sustaining all-hazards emergency management capabilities. Further information on DHS’ preparedness grant programs is available at www.dhs.gov and http://www.fema.gov/grants. #####
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the "Freedom to Fish Act" (S.982) unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation passed the Senate late last week. The "Freedom to Fish Act" prohibits the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from restricting public access to waters surrounding dams or civil work structures along the Cumberland River in Kentucky and Tennessee for a two-year period. “I’m pleased to see the House agree to a two-year delay of the Corps’ unconvincing tailwaters access restriction. With lake levels rising, folks are gassing up their boats and getting excited about the 2013 summer season," said Rogers. "The 'Freedom to Fish Act' will ensure lake enthusiasts have full access to prime fishing spots. This legislation keeps the Corps from moving forward with physical barriers, while allowing for signage and alert systems to inform individuals of potential water-flow changes. Communities around Kentucky’s fine lakes rose up in opposition to the Corps’ policy and now have reason to celebrate and fish to catch.” In 2012, the Army Corps of Engineers re-interpreted a 1996 policy to permanently restrict access to the tailwaters of ten dams in the Cumberland River basin. In April, the Corps officially announced it would implement the new restrictions. However, this bill directs the Corps to remove any permanent physical barriers constructed for the restricted areas. The "Freedom to Fish Act" now proceeds to the President's desk to be signed into law. Rogers has served Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia's natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. #####
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the U.S. House of Representatives voted to repeal President Obama's Affordable Care Act (ObamaCare) with a vote of 229 to 195. Since the law passed three years ago, the Republican-led House has voted to repeal the law 37 times. "Across the country and in our region, Americans are rightly worried about ObamaCare's dreadful impact and the looming increased health care costs it will bring, along with more Washington waste, and lost jobs this law will bring," said Rogers who voted to repeal ObamaCare again. "Even after all the promises, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates 30 million Americans will remain uninsured and insurance premiums could rise 200% for younger workers. The Affordable Care Act isn't 'affordable' when you consider the projected job losses and higher-out-of-pocket medical expenses for hardworking American taxpayers. And ObamaCare isn’t about ‘care’ when you put a bureaucrat between you and your doctor. This is the wrong medicine for Kentucky families. We can do better." Rogers has served Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia's natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement about the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) decision to leave the powerful painkiller, Opana Extended-Release Tablets (Opana ER) on the U.S. market for "reasons of safety or effectiveness." The decision allows generic versions of the original, easily-abused painkiller to be sold. “I’m disappointed that the FDA is allowing cheap crushable pain pills to stay on the market in the United States," said Rogers who co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "These powerful drugs have caused far too many overdoses and deaths around the country when misused, and in Kentucky, they have proved to be a gateway drug for heroin abuse. The bottom line is that we need better technology to deter tampering and abuse of prescription meds to fix our country’s pain pill addiction, and the sooner we can incentivize the development and approval of safer, tamper-resistant pills, the better we all will be.” The FDA was required to respond to a petition from the drug manufacturer, Endo Pharmaceuticals, seeking an abuse-deterrent label for Opana ER on Friday, May 10, 2013. The federal agency's response was also due for a Citizen's Petition to keep the original drug off the shelves. In a personal phone call to Congressman Rogers on Friday, FDA Commissioner Dr. Peggy Hamburg explained the agency did not have the authority to pull the original Opana ER off the market at this time. Last month, Congressman Rogers applauded the FDA and Dr. Hamburg for blocking the original, crushable OxyContin from returning to U.S. markets on April 16, 2013. During the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Orlando, Florida April 2-4, 2013, Rogers and Dr. Hamburg spoke privately and publicly about the prescription drug abuse epidemic and their concerns for opioids that do not contain abuse-deterrent measures. Rogers told the nearly 1,000 Summit attendees that Congress was prepared to act if the FDA failed to do so. Four drug-related bills in the U.S. House include the Safe Prescribing Act (H.R. 1285), the Stop Oxy Abuse Act (H.R. 1366), the Stop Tampering of Prescription Pills (STOPP) Act (H.R. 486), and the Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (H.R. 672). The prescription drug abuse epidemic now claims more American lives than car crashes. Rogers also joined a bipartisan group of members in introducing H.Res. 161 last month, expressing the Sense of the House of Representatives that the FDA should require generic versions of abuse-deterrent painkillers to use comparable abuse-deterrent features. In 2009, Rogers joined former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today,U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) sent a letter to the President and CEO of Urban Outfitters, Richard Hayne, urging the Fortune 500 company based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to remove its controversial product line of flasks, shot glasses and pint glasses designed to look like prescription pill bottles. "For a company with sales of $2.79 billion in 2012 to trivialize the pain and suffering of those struggling with addiction is tasteless at best, but irresponsible at worst," stated Rogers in the letter. "I fear the sale of these items could have the unfortunate consequence of leading more teens to seek out prescription meds, or even worse, an increase in prescription drug related overdoses. I would encourage you to remove these items from the shelves immediately so as not to contribute to this epidemic." In the letter, Rogers noted that someone dies every 15 minutes from a prescription drug overdose in the United States and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has characterized this problem as a national epidemic. Rogers says the company has simply gone too far. "While I understand that your company's business model is predicated on the sale of controversial products, I believe marketing products to young people with an explicit allusion to the misuse of prescription medicines is simply a bridge too far," said Rogers, co-founder of the Congressional Causus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Click here to read Rogers' letter to Urban Outfitters. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
05.03.2013	SOMERSET, KY - Today, U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the winners of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. The first place artwork, entitled “Deep in Slumber,” was painted by Jeffery Couch, a senior at Knott County Central High School. Jeffery utilized watercolors to capture his younger sister taking an afternoon nap. His art teacher is Carolyn Slone Gibson. Jeffery is the son of Jeff and Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight talented artists from across the country, and I'm thrilled to have our region represented by such talented students,” said Rogers. “Jeffery's artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know it came from southeastern Kentucky.” The winning artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. First place artists are invited to a Congressional Art Competition reception on June 26, 2013 in Washington, D.C. and will receive two complimentary airline tickets to attend. Jeffery Couch will also eligible for a college art scholarship as the first place district winner. The second place artwork, entitled "Empyrean" is a pastel painting of the artist, Anna Rogers, with her Thoroughbred horse, highlighting beautiful flowering trees on a farm. Anna is a freshman at Somerset Christian School. Her art teacher is Cece Butcher. Anna is the daughter of Kimberly and Sean Rogers of Somerset, Kentucky. The third place artwork, entitled "The Girl with the Flower" was painted by Monica Withers, a junior at Monticello High School. Monica used oil pastels to capture, with post impressionist style, her identical twin wearing a medieval costume. Her art teacher is Tonya Marcum. She is the daughter of Tim Withers and Angela Denney of Monticello, Kentucky. The second and third place winners will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for their award-winning artwork. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 30 years. 1st Place Winning Artwork, "Deep in Slumber" by Jeffery Couch of Knott Central High School 2nd Place Winning Artwork, "Empyrean" by Anna Rogers of Somerset Christian School 3rd Place Winning Artwork, "The Girl with the Flower" by Monica Withers of Monticello High School ###
04.30.2013	Hazard, KY -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the retirement of his Eastern Kentucky Field Representative, Pat Wooton, effective April 30, 2013. Wooton served as Rogers' Field Representative for six years, covering 18 counties in the eastern half of Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. "Pat has been a tireless advocate for the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, working with local leaders to assist with water and sewer projects, federal aid for natural disasters, and much more," said Rogers. "Pat has been a loyal adviser and close friend over the years and we'll certainly miss his presence on staff in the mountains. Even in his retirement, I imagine Pat will continue helping his hometown of Buckhorn, Kentucky and the surrounding areas." Wooton's territory will be divided by Rogers' staff. Rogers' Field Representative Grayson Smith will now add Breathitt, Knott, Letcher and Perry Counties to the region he serves, while Field Representative Shannon Rickett will add Lee, Leslie and Owsley Counties. Rogers honored Wooton upon his retirement with a Congressional Tribute in the U.S. House of Representatives, which follows: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a dedicated employee of the U.S. House of Representatives and a staunch Kentucky Republican, Mr. Dennis Patrick Wooton, upon his retirement from my Hazard district office following six years of service as my trusted Field Representative. “Pat has been my right hand on many issues impacting constituents in the eastern half of Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District, covering 18 counties. Anytime a natural disaster occurs in our region, such as flash flooding, tornadoes and damaging mudslides, Pat immediately reaches out to local officials to offer a helping hand and evaluate the potential need for federal assistance. He has been a loyal, reliable resource in the mountains of eastern Kentucky, always offering a friendly smile, his contagious humorous attitude, and a word of encouragement. “Before serving as Congressional staff, Pat bravely served our U.S. Army in the Vietnam War. He was awarded several medals for his valiant efforts, including the honorable Bronze Star. He is a life-time member of V.F.W. Post 7378 and D.A.V. Chapter 64. Upon returning home, Pat was a teacher, baseball coach, and basketball coach at Buckhorn High School in Perry County, Kentucky, where he also became one of the most beloved principals in the history of the institution. In 2007, he was elected to the Kentucky High School Baseball Coach Hall of Fame. Through his dedicated efforts in the county, Pat gained the respect of the people of Perry County, who elected him Sheriff 2003-2006. “Pat has also been a dedicated advocate for conservative Republican principles and currently serves as Chairman of the Perry County Republican Party. “Pat has a true heart of service, which is displayed by his volunteer efforts across the Kentucky River region. His long list of service includes training the Buckhorn Volunteer Fire Department, serving on the Governor’s Smart Growth Task Force, the ARH Family Health Service and Community Advisory Boards, Buckhorn City Council, the Hazard Community and Technical College Board of Directors, and many more. "Please join me in congratulating Mr. Pat Wooton on his retirement, and in appreciation of his brave military service to this nation. My wife, Cynthia, and I wish Pat and his wife, Veda, the very best in the years to come.” ###
04.30.2013	Rogers speaks to Knox County Chamber of Commerce Barbourville, KY - U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) spoke to the Knox County Chamber of Commerce in Barbourville, Kentucky on Tuesday, April 30th on the campus of Union College. Rogers commended Dr. Marcia Hawkins on her recent inauguration as the 19th President of Union College, and becoming the first female to take the helm in the history of the institution. Rogers presented a legislative update during the meeting and explained how the impacts of the sequester have been turned into propaganda by the Obama Administration. Rogers cited the recent U.S. Federal Aviation Administration's reluctance to provide details about furloughs and delays to airports and airlines until three days before the sequester. "This Administration has an imperialistic attitude, refusing to let the Congress know what each agency needs in order to prevent major setbacks," said Rogers. "If we could get the Obama Administration to come to the table to talk about the sequester, we could discuss alternatives and implement a plan that doesn't cut the good with the bad." Rogers also criticized the Obama Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) war on coal. Our region lost 4,068 coal jobs between 2011 and 2012, and total Kentucky coal production fell 16.3% last year, the lowest level since 1965, according to a recent report by the Mountain Association of Community Economic Development (MACED). "We've tried to do everything possible to stop this attack on Appalachian coal," said Rogers. "We've cut the EPA's budget more than ever before on the House Appropriations Committee, but the Obama Administration has been relentless in attacking the way of life of thousands of Kentucky coal miners." Switching gears, Rogers said one area where we are seeing significant progress in southern and eastern Kentucky is saving lives in the prescription drug abuse epidemic. "I applauded the U.S. Food and Drug Administration during a hearing last week, for blocking the original, crushable OxyContin from coming back to our streets," said Rogers who launched Operation UNITE and co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "I truly believe the FDA's decision saved us from another deadly wave of prescription drug overdoses and deaths. It's evident that your voices are being heard. Parents, communities and local leaders across the region have joined the UNITE mission to let our national leaders know that enough is enough and its time for action." As the PRIDE Spring Cleanup Month wraps up, Rogers also commended all of the PRIDE volunteers that have dedicated time to pick up litter along our roadways, hillsides and streams during the month of April. "You've changed the way this region looks over the years and restored the natural beauty of the mountains," Rogers lauded. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) urged the Department of Treasury to register China as a 'currency manipulator' during a budget hearing Thursday morning with Treasury Secretary Jack Lew. Rogers also co-sponsored the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 1276), bipartisan legislation to stop China's illegal trade practices. "There's not a soul in the world that doesn't believe that the renminbi is being manipulated by the Chinese for trade practice purposes and it's working, very smoothly, as a matter of fact," stated Rogers. "The Department of Commerce cannot move until you take action. "Commerce can't levy counter-veiling duties unless Treasury registers China as a 'currency manipulator' and this has been going on for decades now and we're getting beat," Rogers continued. "Our economy is absolutely suffering tremendously, I think, because of the under-value of the renminbi. In fact, I'm told it's set now at 6.14 renminbis to the dollar, which is from my information, a reduction of about 3% from this time last year." According to a new report from the nonpartisan Peterson Institute of International Economics, our economy has lost between one and five million jobs as a result of currency manipulation by China and other foreign countries. The practice of undermining the free exchange of currencies to benefit China's own exporters violates international trade agreements and weakens manufacturing in America. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act gives domestic manufacturers the tools needed to fight back against countries that won't live up to their trade obligations. It helps American companies and workers compete on a level playing field when imports from counties engaged in currency manipulation cause "material injury" to a U.S. industry and adheres to World Trade Organization rules. Click here to watch a YouTube video of the Budget Hearing with Treasury Secretary Lew Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Lily Volunteer Fire Department $72,105 to purchase new safety gear. “Whether it’s responding to a traffic accident, a medical emergency, or a burning building, modern equipment is essential for our first responders to do their jobs effectively,” said Rogers. “This federal investment will go a long way towards increasing the safety of our brave fire fighters in the Lily community and in Laurel County.” The Lily Volunteer Fire Department plans to purchase eight new self-contained breathing apparatus (S.C.B.A.) units with spare cylinders and masks. The department will also replace some buffer gear that was destroyed in a recent house fire. The primary goal of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, these grants have helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire-related hazards. This award is at the sole discretion of FEMA. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) questioned Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator, Michael Huerta, during a House Transportation-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee budget hearing. The hearing also focused on the impact of the sequestration on the FAA and the Administration's failure to inform Congress and adequately detail industry shareholders on the decision to furlough federal air traffic control employees. The FAA began furloughing controllers on Sunday, April 21st, leading to aviation delays nationwide. In Rogers' opening statement, he expressed disdain over the failure of the Obama Administration and FAA to detail the projected operational impacts of sequestration. "You didn't inform the Congress of this sequester impact and what you planned to do about it. In fact, the entire Administration has done the same thing. They've not told the Congress how the sequester impact will impact each agency and the Congress can't operate like that. This imperial attitude on a part of the Administration, and you're the most recent example of that imperialism, is disgusting. And then, to turn around and try to blame the difficulties in flying on the Congress having not informed us of what you planned to do is unacceptable." During the hearing Rogers, questioned Administrator Huerta specifically about the decision to impose across-the-board furloughs. "I wish you had told us earlier, so we could have planned and perhaps try to find a way around the problem," said Rogers. "Now, when you decided to close those 149 contract towers, you said that your goal was to minimize the disruption to the maximum number of travelers. But when you decided to find savings in labor costs, just now, you imposed eleven days of furloughs across all FAA employees, regardless of how critical those employees are to the mission of safe, efficient air traffic control. It seems to me, we have contradictory reasoning when it came to decisions regarding contract towers versus the FAA and air traffic control workforce who are furloughed equally, regardless of how operationally essential they are." Rogers also demanded answers about the FAA's failure to adequately inform industry stakeholders, namely airports and airlines, about it's plans. “We told them that they should expect significant impacts at major hub facilities,” explained Huerta. “Well, la-ti-da, everyone knew that, that’s what sequester is all about," responded Rogers. "But it’s important for them to plan their schedules, their hours, and their planes and the airports, their management personnel. They needed to know detailed impact on them as early as could be had, and you had months to do that, and yet, you refused. I find that shocking.” Click the photo to see Rogers' opening statement during the FAA Hearing Click the photo to watch Rogers' questions during the FAA Hearing on YouTube Click to the photo to watch the second round of FAA questioning focused on informing industry stakeholders Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will award the Hazard Fire Department $207,438 to upgrade all communications for the agency. “Whether it’s responding to a traffic accident, a medical emergency, or a burning building, modern communications equipment is essential for our first responders to do their jobs effectively,” said Rogers. “This federal investment will go a long way towards increasing the safety of our brave fire fighters in the City of Hazard.” The Hazard Fire Department plans to purchase new radio equipment for 24 vehicles, 26 fire fighters, along with new repeaters to comply with new regulations from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The primary goal of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, these grants have helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire-related hazards. This award is at the sole discretion of FEMA. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.19.2013	SOMERSET, KY - Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced the deadline has been extended one week for 2013 Congressional Art Competition entries in the Fifth Congressional District. High school students have one more week to submit artwork, which is now due on Friday, April 26, 2013. One winner from each Congressional District is chosen to have their artwork displayed at the Capitol for one year, where more than three million visitors pass through annually. District winners also receive two airline tickets to Washington, DC for a special reception and the opportunity to see all of the winning artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol building. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way for students in southern and eastern Kentucky to showcase their unique talents and receive the opportunity to display their artwork in the Capitol for an entire year,” said Rogers. “It is a pleasure to walk through the halls of the Capitol and see a piece of home hanging right here in Washington, representing our region. I look forward to reviewing this year’s submissions and encourage all students from 9th to 12th grade to participate in the competition.” Last year, Jeffery Couch submitted the winning artwork from Knott Central High School. He submitted a drawing entitled, “Entranced,” which captured his younger sister reading one of her favorite books while seated under a tree near their home. Jeffery is the son of Jeffery and Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. Click here for competition guidelines and information. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is now due at Congressional District Offices by Friday, April 26, 2013. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 orchelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county. Prestonsburg District Office (Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike, Rowan, Elliott, Carter and Boyd counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley, and Perry counties) 48 S. KY Hwy. 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne, Whitley and Lincoln counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here from more information on the Congressional Art Compeition PHOTO CUTLINE: 2012 Congressional Art Competition Winner, Jeffery Couch of Kite, KY Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning, urging the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to take immediate action on generic prescription painkillers without abuse-deterrent formulations as the patent on the original, crushable Oxycontin expires today. Click the photo to watch C-SPAN video of Rogers' Floor Speech For months, Rogers and other members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse have pushed the FDA to keep crushable, generic painkillers from being manufactured in the United States. In recent years, several drug-makers replaced their crushable formulations with new pills that are harder to crush for illicit use. Many, including 48 state Attorneys General, fear generic introduction of these more easily abused pills will lead to a new wave of abuse and overdose deaths in our country, proliferating an epidemic that already takes more American lives than car crashes. Yesterday, Rogers joined a bipartisan group of members in introducing H.Res. 161, expressing the Sense of the House of Representatives that the FDA should require generic versions of abuse-deterrent painkillers to use comparable abuse-deterrent features. Congressman Rogers made the following remarks on the floor: "Mister Speaker, today, April 16, 2013, marks a critical turning point in our country’s battle against prescription drug abuse - an epidemic which takes more American lives than car crashes. "Unless the Food and Drug Administration takes action today, generic drug-makers will be free to dump cheap painkillers, lacking abuse deterrence, back into U.S. markets – pills that can be easily crushed and which are to blame for tens of thousands of emergency room visits and accidental overdoses in the last decade. "Two weeks ago at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, FDA Commissioner Peggy Hamburg acknowledged the many “individuals and their families whose lives have been shattered by prescription opioid abuse, misuse, and addiction.” She also affirmed that FDA has the authority to keep these crushable pills off the market when abuse-deterrent technologies are available. It is time to execute that authority, FDA - on behalf of the thousands of families in my region and our nation, keep crushable pills off our streets and out of our children’s hands. Thank you and I yield back." ###
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) applauded an announcement by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner, Dr. Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg, that the federal agency will prevent the original, crushable Oxycontin from returning to U.S. markets without abuse-deterrent formulations. The original patent was set to expire today. In 2007, following a criminal conviction and nearly $700 million in fines for misleading labels and product claims, drug-maker Purdue Pharma removed the original Oxycontin from pharmacy shelves and replaced it with an abuse-deterrent formulation that is more difficult to crush for illicit use. With the original patent expiring, several other drug companies have been awaiting approval to put generic versions back on the market. "This is a huge win for our region and for the thousands of families who have seen painkillers become pain makers. The FDA undoubtedly saved our nation from another deadly tidal wave of oxycodone abuse and overdoses," said Rogers, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. "I commend Dr. Hamburg for leading the way and pressing forward to ensure that this original, deadly patent didn't expire without the mechanisms to significantly prevent abuse and misuse of these drugs. It is certainly a step in the right direction." Earlier today, Congressman Rogers spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives urging the FDA and Dr. Hamburg to take immediate action on this issue. During the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Orlando, Florida April 2-4, 2013, Rogers and Dr. Hamburg spoke privately and publicly about the prescription drug abuse epidemic and their concerns for opioids that do not contain abuse-deterrent measures. Rogers told the nearly 1,000 Summit attendees that Congress was prepared to act if the FDA failed to do so. Four drug-related bills in the U.S. House include the Safe Prescribing Act (H.R. 1285), the Stop Oxy Abuse Act (H.R. 1366), the Stop Tampering of Prescription Pills (STOPP) Act (H.R. 486), and the Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (H.R. 672). The prescription drug abuse epidemic now claims more American lives than car crashes, prompting state and federal leaders, including the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and 48 state Attorneys General to urge FDA action. On Monday, Rogers joined a bipartisan group of members in introducing H.Res. 161, expressing the Sense of the House of Representatives that the FDA should require generic versions of abuse-deterrent painkillers to use comparable abuse-deterrent features. In 2009, Rogers joined former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ### Click the photo to watch the C-SPAN video of Rogers' floor speech urging FDA action
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) has awarded a third-party contract to perform an environmental impact study (EIS) in connection with a proposed federal corrections facility in Letcher County. The EIS will provide a detailed analysis of two potential sites, already identified by a lengthy site selection study. These sites include 584 acres in Roxana and 753 acres in Payne Gap. "I'm thrilled to announce that the BOP is moving forward on a future federal prison in Letcher County," said Rogers, who has urged the federal agency to keep up progress for several years. "I applaud the diligence and tenacity of the Letcher County Planning Commission in rallying around this effort and pressing on during the site selection process. We've shown that our region has a high-quality, skilled workforce and we can meet this law enforcement need for service. The EIS is an important and encouraging step forward for Letcher and the surrounding counties and I"m proud to be a part of the team." A January 2013 report by the Congressional Research Service observed a "historically unprecedented increase in the federal prison population" since 1980. The number of federal inmates increased from around 25,000 in 1980 to 219,000 in 2012, according to the report. In 2006, Rogers secured an initial $5 million in Congress enabling the federal Bureau of Prisons to initiate the site planning and selection process, along with related environmental assessments for a possible Letcher County location. The EIS represents the next procedural step in the process of identifying and approving a Letcher County site for future correctional facility construction. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
04.11.2013	SOMERSET, KY -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Director of Operation UNITE, Karen Kelly will be joining his Fifth Congressional District Staff as District Director effective May 15, 2013. Concurrently, Rogers' District Director, Chris Girdler is announcing his transition to the private sector, while continuing to serve as State Senator for the 15th Senate District of Kentucky. "This announcement is bittersweet," said Rogers. "Chris Girdler has served as an effective and capable director of my district operations, and he has shown himself to be in command of the issues and concerns of our region and a tireless advocate for our people. I wish him the best with this new opportunity, as well as his role as State Senator. I have no doubt we'll continue to work closely to improve the lives of southern and eastern Kentuckians." "Fortunately, Karen Kelly has graciously agreed to step into this role and continue the great work of Bob Mitchell, Chris Girdler and the entire staff. Karen has demonstrated tremendous leadership at the helm of the PRIDE program, Operation UNITE, and most recently in coordination of the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. I am confident her tenacity will shine through as we face tough economic challenges and work to create more jobs, healthier communities, economic development and educational opportunities." A Pulaski County native, Chris Girdler has served Rogers in various capacities over the past six years in addition to acting as a board member for both the Center for Rural Development and the Somerset-Pulaski County Chamber of Commerce. On November 6, 2012, Girdler was elected State Senator for the 15th District of Kentucky. "Congressman Rogers has provided unbelievable opportunities to serve and execute his vision over the years and I will always be indebted to him. Our friendship has never been stronger," said Girdler. "For my family and me, this new opportunity in the private sector is exciting and it will allow me extend my passion for creating jobs and making critical investments in the future of southern and eastern Kentucky. Along with my new role in public service as State Senator, I am eager to work with my hometown region in a greater capacity. " Karen Kelly returns to Rogers' office after 14 years. During that gap, Kelly effectively led the PRIDE program, an effort to improve the environment and waterways of southern and eastern Kentucky. In 2003, Kelly helped launch and even name, Operation UNITE (Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment, and Education), a regional anti-drug initiative culminating most recently in two consecutive successful, National Rx Drug Abuse Summits. Originally from Elkhorn City, Kentucky, Kelly served as a Field Representative for the 5th Congressional District in the mid 90's. "Congressman Rogers is an extraordinary leader and I am humbled by his faith in me to shepherd his district operation," said Kelly. "Chris and Bob are dear friends and have done an excellent job executing Congressman Rogers’ tremendous vision for our region and I look forward to doing my part to extend that vision. In working with UNITE and PRIDE, I've learned the value of partnerships and working across city, county and state boundaries. As we look foward with unity, I hope to continue those friendships as we work together for a better southern and eastern Kentucky. " To download a photo of Karen Kelly, visit: http://halrogers.house.gov/vendor/_accounts/halrogers/legacy_redirects//3867affa-7042-4d84-91ca-b6b0dff6f94d.jpg Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #####
04.10.2013	On April 10, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives applauding the efforts of the 2nd National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, hosted by Operation UNITE, in Orlando, Florida last week. Headliners included U.S. Drug Czar Gil Kerlikowske; Dr. Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg, Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA); Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA); U.S. Rep. Michael Grimm (NY-11); U.S. Rep. Daniel Webster (FL-10); and U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (MA-09). “Last week, I had the great honor and pleasure of helping host, in Orlando, Florida, a drug summit on prescription drug abuse,” said Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Almost 1,000 people from 49 states and several foreign countries, focusing on the problem. That’s the second year we’ve done that.” Click on the photo above to see Congressman Rogers speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives applauding the efforts of the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. Click here to see the text of Congressman Rogers speech. At the 2013 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit April 2-4 in Orlando, Florida, Rogers delivered a keynote address and participated in a Congressional Panel on Prescription Drug Abuse. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
04.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was joined by several members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse for a forum moderated by Steve Pasierb, President and CEO of the Partnership at Drugfree.org at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, hosted by Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida. U.S. Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY), U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA), and U.S. Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL) were part of the bi-partisan panel that also featured a special video message from U.S. Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV). "We've nearly doubled the number of Members on the Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus since the first Summit last April, thanks to the people who went home and urged their Members of Congress to get involved," Rogers said, commending the proactive crowd. "Since then, we've also authored several pieces of legislation that are vital to the drug abuse epidemic, the majority of which would be unnecessary if the FDA would make the changes on its own." Four current drug-related bills in U.S. House of Representatives include The Safe Prescribing Act (H.R. 1285), The Stop Oxy Abuse Act (H.R. 1366), The Stop Tampering of Prescription Pills (STOPP) Act (H.R. 486), and Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (H.R. 672). During the Summit, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner, Dr. Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg confirmed the FDA has the authority to require abuse-deterrent technologies and reschedule or reclassify prescription painkillers without Congressional action. "We have a domestic enemy," said Congressman Grimm. "In 2010, 12 million people admitted they used prescription painkillers for non-medical reasons." "We have to act now on this," said Congressman Keating. "As we learned from [the CDC Director] Dr. Thomas Frieden's presentation, there is an absolute parallel in the increase of opioid sales and addiction." "What we want, is for addicts to be healed," said Congressman Webster, whose home Congressional District in Central Florida is hosting the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. "We could just incarerate people, but that doesn't work. We need to do more." After the Congressional Forum concluded, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Florida's Attorney General Pam Bondi shared recent success rates in the battle against prescription drug abuse in their home states. The Summit continues through Thursday, April 4th. ###
04.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers introduced three students from Rockcastle County High School (RCHS) to several national leaders during the 2nd National Rx Drug Abuse Summit hosted by Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida this week. RCHS students, Hannah Eaton, Sean Watkins, and Avery Bradshaw bravely shared their heartbreaking stories of losing parents and close relatives to drug-related deaths with the Dr. Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg, Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) and U.S. Drug Czar Gil Kerlikowske. "I'm very proud of these three young people who are not afraid to speak out on the very real problems that our young people face everyday as a result of prescription drug abuse," said Rogers. "They have been on national television, they have testified before Congress on Capitol Hill, and now they continue to march forward, capturing the attention of national leaders who can actually initiate change in this country. Hannah, Sean and Avery are remarkable young leaders and I commend them for their tenacity to make a difference." "We have a lot of education in our school and in our region, but so much more needs to be done across the country," Hannah Eaton expressed to several leaders. "Everyone I know, even high school students, first got addicted from an injury like a car crash or a sports injury, and it has destroyed their lives," said Sean Watkins who lost his mother to prescription drug abuse and now lives with his grandfather. "A lot of great efforts have been made, but we need to start teaching kids about the effects of drugs at a younger age," urged Avery Bradshaw, who lost his father to prescription drug abuse and now lives with his great-grandparents. "The impacts of drug abuse on our students is the most powerful message we can relay to our national leaders," said Karen Kelly, President of Operation UNITE. "Dr. Frieden encouraged us that we can stop this epidemic, and with these young leaders taking the initiative to lead the way, I believe we can and will." The National Rx Drug Abuse Summit continues through Thursday, April 4th. ###
04.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) kicked off the 2nd National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, hosted by Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida at the Omni Orlando Resort at Champions Gate. Nearly 900 people from 48 states are attending the sophomore conference focused on the national prescription drug abuse epidemic. Headliners include U.S. Drug Czar Gil Kerlikowske; Dr. Margaret "Peggy" Hamburg, Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA); Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA); U.S. Rep. Michael Grimm (NY-11); U.S. Rep. Daniel Webster (FL-10); and U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (MA-09). "Operation UNITE is the bringing prescription drug abuse epidemic to the national stage once again after last year's summit stirred poignant discussions, sparked new legislative options and new grassroots efforts," said Rogers. "With significant growth at the Summit this year, it's inspiring to know that more people are committed to stay on the front-lines of the on-going battle. There is hope and we intend to do everything we can to save lives and help families and communities across the nation." During the opening ceremony, keynote speakers set the tone for this year's goals. Director Kerlikowske called on Missouri to implement a prescription drug monitoring program, as the other 49 states have already done. Dr. Hamburg confirmed the FDA has the authority to take action on several pressing issues, like addressing generic narcotic medications without abuse deterrent formulas. Last year, Dr. Frieden announced that the CDC had classified the prescription drug abuse problem as an epidemic, but this year his message is 'we can stop this epidemic.' The Summit continues through Thursday, April 4th. ###
03.27.2013	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Wednesday, March 27, 2013, Rogers delivered more than 100 books to the Pulaski County Public Library in downtown Somerset, Kentucky. WIth 30 students from Meece Middle School on hand, Rogers encrouaged them to continue reading and researching for their future. “Since the Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, it receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Rogers presented Pulaski County Public Library Director, Charlotte Keeney with several boxes of literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Pulaski County Library," said Keeney. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has also collected books for West Liberty Elementary School, Knott County Public Library, Lee County Public Library, Magoffin County Public Library and the McCreary County Public Library. Photo: Rogers delivers books to Pulaski County Public Library Ann Haney, Librarian; Elaine Wilson, Chair of Trustees; Congressman Rogers; Charlotte Keeney, Library Director PHOTO: Rogers with Meece Middle School Students Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
03.27.2013	PHOTO: Rogers Presents Audrey & Gabrielle Moore with Congressional Bronze Medals SOMERSET, KY - Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) presented two Somerset Christian School students with the Congressional Award Bronze Medal during an assembly with nearly two hundred middle and high school students. Sisters, Gabrielle and Audrey Moore earned the Congressional Award Bronze Medal through volunteer efforts to improve Pulaski County and achievement of personal development goals. "Gabrielle and Audrey are setting the bar high for other students in southern and eastern Kentucky, by going beyond successful academics to dedicate time to volunteer service and personal development," said Rogers. "Colleges and universities are looking for more than good grades today. They are searching for well-rounded students who are developing good character and putting community first. I commend these impressive young ladies for their efforts and I hope students across the region are inspired to follow suit.” Gabrielle and Audrey's work exemplifies the cornerstones of the Congressional Award: service to others, initiative and achievement. The Congressional Award is open to all young people ages 14-23 in America. To earn the Award, young people must set and achieve goals in the four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Gabrielle's volunteer service project included working with the Lifeline Foundation to provide developmental activities for infants, toddlers and preschoolers. Audrey's volunteer efforts were highlighted by helping organize a softball team for children with special needs. She worked diligently to recruit sponsors for equipment and uniforms. Gabrielle and Audrey Moore are the daughters of Dr. John and Kim Moore of Somerset, Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.26.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) presented Harlan County Little League Baseball Coach, UNITE Coalition Coordinator and former Mayor of Lynch, Tom Vicini with a Congressional Tribute in recognition of his volunteer efforts and recent national recognition as the Major League Baseball Commissioner's Play Healthy Volunteer Coach of the Year Award. "Tom Vicini is a hero and an outstanding mentor for our young people. He has been a devout volunteer, a father figure for many baseball players and a champion for drug-free education," said Rogers. "It's an honor for the MLB to recognize the hard work and tireless efforts of a local Harlan Countian, but anyone who knows Tom, quickly realizes he wants no recognition. His desire to help our young people succeed is unmatched and I applaud his daily efforts to make a difference." Rogers commended Vicini for dedicating more than 34 years as a coach and umpire for Harlan County Little League Baseball. Vicini coaches the players on more than good baseball techniques, he encourages good sportsmanship, good choices and a drug-free life. Through his efforts as Operation UNITE's Coalition Coordinator, Vicini helps organize drug-free educational events across southern and eastern Kentucky and helps individuals get treatment for substance abuse. Prior to joining UNITE, Vicini served more than 13 years as Mayor of Lynch with no salary to save city funds. "This is a great honor. I will treasure this tribute for years to come," said Vicini. "It was fun to go to New York City and receive such incredible recognition from the Partnership at Drugfree.org and the Commissioner of Major League Baseball, but my hero is Congressman Rogers and this means a lot to me." To read Congressman Rogers' Congressional Tribute for Tom Vicini, visit: http://halrogers.house.gov/UploadedFiles/CRs_Tom_Vicini_8_5x11.pdf At the 2013 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit April 2-4 in Orlando, Florida, Rogers will deliver a keynote address and participate in a Congressional Panel on Prescription Drug Abuse. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
03.22.2013	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture-Rural Development (USDA-RD) awarded a $750,000 loan and $310,000 grant to the City of Stanford to replace aged and deteriorating water lines. “Many of our rural cities are now suffering from aging water and sewer lines, but help is on the way," said Congressman Rogers. "Clean water is essential to attracting businesses to our downtown areas, improving health and growing our communities. I applaud the City of Stanford and Mayor Bill Miracle for their efforts to help local families and businesses by updating this vital portion of infrastructure." The project will focus on two miles of old water lines along Danville Street in Stanford, Kentucky. Funds will be used to replace old water mains and construct a new parallel water main west of Danville Street. This construction will improve water quality and increase water flow to downtown Stanford. Improved water pressure will also provide adequate flow for fire protection, benefitting more than 3,000 people in the City of Stanford. This award is at the sole discretion of USDA-RD. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.22.2013	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture-Rural Development (USDA-RD) awarded $20,210 grant to the Johnson County Fiscal Court to purchase two new 2013 Ford police cruisers for the Johnson County Sheriff's Department. “The resources of our rural Sheriff's Departments are stretched thin by budget restraints," said Congressman Rogers. "Updating a law enforcement fleet is a costly task that will always be essential to protecting families in our rural counties. I applaud the Johnson County Fiscal Court and Judge Executive "Tucker" Daniel for their efforts to help ensure emergency protection is available for the people of Johnson County." The federal funding will be used to help purchase two new 2013 Ford Police Interceptors for the Johnson County Sheriff's Department in order to provide effective protection and emergency services. The Johnson County Fiscal Court is contributing a match in the amount of $37,534 for a total project cost of $57,744. The Sheriff's Department serves more than 23,000 people in Johnson County. This award is at the sole discretion of USDA-RD. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.21.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) co-sponsored the Stop Oxy Abuse Act of 2013 that was introduced on Thursday, March 21, 2013. This bill revises the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) classification to ensure that Oxycontin is prescribed only for severe pain, rather than the current FDA guidance of “moderate to severe.” “Far too many young people in my region have fallen victim to the abuse of prescription drugs and tragically lost their lives to addiction,” said Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “If we want to get serious about keeping these powerful narcotics out of the hands of our children and halting the lawlessness that comes with drug diversion, then we must ensure that these drugs are limited to only those who truly need it. I’m proud to join Congressman Stephen Lynch as a co-sponsor of this bill so that we can limit the use of dangerous drugs, such as Oxycontin, and ensure that they are being used to help and not hurt our communities." OxyContin was originally intended to be prescribed only for severe pain to help individuals battling with late stages of cancer and other severe illnesses. However, as time wore on, more and more individuals were prescribed this drug for less severe pain, heightening the potential for abuse and addiction of this powerful narcotic. In 2011, the Centers for Disease Control declared a worsening “epidemic” of overdose deaths associated with opioid painkillers, as these drugs were involved in 14,800 deaths that year. More recently, Source Safe Kids Worldwide released a report showing that a child is treated in the Emergency Room for medicine poisoning every eight minutes in the United States, and NIDA’s 2010 Monitoring the Future Study shows that two-thirds of students who misused prescription drugs obtained the medicines from friends or relatives. At the 2013 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit April 2-4 in Orlando, Florida, Rogers will deliver a keynote address and participate in a Congressional Panel on Prescription Drug Abuse. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
03.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) co-sponsored the "Safe Prescribing Act of 2013" that was introduced on Wednesday, March 20, 2013. The federal bipartisan bill aims to combat prescription drug abuse by tightening restrictions on some of the most powerful addictive narcotics on the market. The "Safe Prescribing Act of 2013" reclassifies hydrocodone painkillers, such as Vicodin and Lortab, from Schedule III to Schedule II controlled substances to accurately reflect their high potential for addiction and abuse. "Hundreds of Kentucky families are suffering the deadly consequences of prescription drug-related deaths every year and its time we move these powerful painkillers to a more accurate category for prescribers," said Rogers. "Hydrocodone drugs are far too often, over-prescribed and over-used, and we cannot ignore the resulting devastating effects that are sweeping across the nation." While the United States makes up only 4.6 percent of the world’s population, it consumes 99 percent of its hydrocodone. Emergency room visits involving hydrocodone rose from 38,000 in 2004 to more than 115,000 in 2010. These drugs are now the most widely prescribed painkillers in the U.S. The DEA has supported this change since 1994 and an expert advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently voted 19-10 in favor of re-classifying hydrocodone painkillers as Schedule II controlled substances. Several members of Congress, including Rogers, have since urged FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg to adopt the board’s recommendation immediately. The restrictions on prescribing and using Schedule III drugs are much less stringent than those for Schedule II products. Under Schedule II, a written prescription would be required in order to receive hydrocodone painkillers except in cases of emergency. Pharmacists would require patients to present an original prescription for refills, and traffickers would be subject to harsher fines and penalties. The "Safe Prescribing Act of 2013" has been co-sponsored by more than 40 bipartisan members of Congress. At the 2013 National Rx Drug Abuse Summit April 2-4 in Orlando, Florida, Rogers will deliver a keynote address and participate in a Congressional Panel on Prescription Drug Abuse. In 2009, Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov or follow Rogers on Twitter and Facebook. ###
03.15.2013	Photo: Rogers' Field Rep. Pat Wooton delivers books to Knott County Public Library (Left to Right: Tammie Owens, Librarian; Martha Baldridge, Library Board Member; Pat Wooton, Rogers' Field Representative; Gail Young, Library Board Chairperson) HINDMAN, KY - Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Friday, March 15, 2013, Rogers' Field Representative Pat Wooton delivered more than 100 books to the Knott County Public Library, located on the first floor of the Opportunity Center in Hindman, Kentucky. “The Library of Congress often receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Wooton presented Knott County Public Library Director, Tammie Owens with several boxes of literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Knott County Library," said Owens. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has also collected books for West Liberty Elementary School, Lee County Public Library, Magoffin County Public Library and the McCreary County Public Library. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC -- On March 15, 2013, U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) joined several Congressional colleagues to introduce the Stop the Tampering of Prescription Pills (STOPP) Act. It requires commonly abused painkillers to be made with abuse-deterrent formulations. Without Food & Drug Administration (FDA) action or passage of the STOPP Act, generic, easily crushable opioids, like Opana and Oxycontin, are likely to return to medicine cabinets for potential abuse and misuse. Click the photo to watch the STOPP Act news conference on YouTube “When Oxycontin was first approved by the FDA over a decade ago, it seemed at first glance that its extended-release technology was a godsend for patients suffering from chronic pain. What no one could foresee was that when you crush these pills, they actually create pain in the form of addiction, abuse and senseless, tragic overdose deaths,” said Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Now we’ve got some promising technology to deter abuse, as well as the benefit of hindsight. This time around, we can see the train coming from a mile away – and we need to step out in front of it to stop another tidal wave of addiction. The FDA has confirmed that they have the authority to prevent these crushable pills from falling into the hands of our children, but time is of the essence. If the FDA will not act boldly, Congress will – with the STOPP Act. I am proud to join Rep. Keating in introducing this legislation which will save lives and promote innovation.” Click the photo to watch Congressman Keating's demonstration of drug abuse-deterrent technology. Click here to read more about the STOPP Act. Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in 2009. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
03.13.2013	On Friday, March 15, 2013, Reps. Hal Rogers (R-KY) and Bill Keating (D-MA) will be announcing federal legislation addressing abuse-deterrent formulations for commonly abused painkillers. The Stop the Tampering of Prescription Pills (STOPP) Act is sponsored by Rep. Keating who partnered with Rep. Rogers, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Rep. Rogers is a co-founder of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and the Youth Drug Caucus, of which Rep. Keating is a member. Rep. Keating originally introduced the STOPP Act, first-of-its kind legislation to address prescription drug abuse, in July of 2012 and Rep. Rogers was an original cosponsor. Said Reps. Rogers and Keating: “Prescription drug abuse does not discriminate by region, socioeconomic status, or age. It is affecting families across the country at an alarmingly rapid rate, and Members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse are united in their determination to slow the rising tide of medicine abuse. A critical piece in preventing painkiller abuse is the development of abuse-deterrent formulas for opiates that make it more difficult for abusers to crush, snort or inject drugs for illicit purposes. "Unfortunately, earlier this year, the FDA approved the first generic drug to re-enter the American market without abuse-deterrent technology – a dangerous precedent. Allowing the generic formulations of abuse-deterrent drugs to enter the market without the same preventative mechanism will only lead to cheaper, more easily available pills to abuse. We hope that FDA and Congress will heed our call and make sure that all painkillers employ abuse-deterrent technologies. With another generic application looming before the FDA in April, these mechanisms will help prevent overdoses and decrease the illegal use of prescription painkillers, as well as spur innovation and the future development of these promising abuse-deterrent technologies.” Reps. Rogers and Keating will be joined by other colleagues in the House as well as representatives from drug abuse prevention organizations. At the press conference, the Members will have a demonstration showing the difference between pills that employ abuse deterrent technologies and those that don’t. Detailed information on the legislation will be available at the press conference. Please email Lauren Amendolara at lauren.amendolara@mail.house.gov if you plan on attending. EVENT DETAILS When: Friday, March 15, 2013 10:00 AM Where: 2359 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Who: Rep. Bill Keating Rep. Hal Rogers Rep. Nick Rahall Mary Elizabeth Elliott,Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America Michael Barnes, Founder & Executive Director, Center for Lawful Access and Abuse Deterrence Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in 2009. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.06.2013	Today, US Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the US House of Representatives has passed the Continuing Resolution (CR) which would prevent a government shutdown and continue government operations until the end of the fiscal year on September 30, 2013 (H.R. 933). Click the picture above to see Congressman Rogers speaking on the floor of the US House of Representatives on the Continuing Resolution. “The House did the right thing today by passing this legislation. As we try to get our fiscal house in order, it's important to come together on issues where we can agree – avoiding a government shutdown, providing our people with essential services, and supporting our troops and veterans," Rogers said. "This bill sets the stage for a meaningful – and needed – discussion on how we can best address our nation’s finances. Now, I urge the Senate to pass H.R. 933 quickly and send it to the President for his signature. Congress must do its duty to ensure that our national defense remains sound at all times, and our economy continues on the path to growth and recovery," Rogers continued. The legislation includes full-year Defense, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bills, which passed the House last year on a broad bipartisan basis and have been negotiated with the Senate. These bills provide necessary funding flexibility to ensure that our military is well-equipped, our veterans receive the care they have earned, and tax dollars are used wisely and where they are most needed. The bill continues the remainder of federal discretionary spending at current rates, making limited exceptions where necessary to avert catastrophic damage to government programs, and to ensure good governance of taxpayer dollars. Nearly all of this funding is subject to the President’s sequestration order, bringing the total topline discretionary spending within the bill to approximately $984 billion. For the text of H.R. 933, please visit: http://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20130304/BILLS-113hr933ih.pdf For a summary of the bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=321979 Through his role as Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers has consistently promoted policies which reduce the size of government and roll back excessive and harmful federal regulations. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
03.01.2013	CONTACT: Tammie Wilson, 888-577-4339, Eastern Kentucky PRIDE, 2292 S. Hwy. 27, Somerset, KY 42501, www.kypride.org ---------- PRIDE unveils Spring Cleanup T-shirts, designed by Whitley City Elementary 3rd-grader WHITLEY CITY, KY — Casey Joe Stephens, a third-grade student at Whitley City Elementary School, was surprised today to learn he won a region-wide contest to design the 2013 PRIDE Spring Cleanup T-shirt — which will be given to thousands of volunteers across 42 counties of southern and easternKentucky in April. Stephens, who is eight years old, is the son of Brad and Jo Jo Stephens, and he is brother to Bradley, George Riley and Josie. Stephens’ design featured the PRIDE mascot, J. Waterford the frog, as a boxer, with the slogan, “Be a PRIDE Champion: Knock Out Litter.” A graphic artist adapted Stephens’ artwork into a computer generated image to be printed on thousands of T-shirts. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-5), who co-founded PRIDE, announced that Stephens won the contest during a school-wide pep rally. Rogers presented Stephens with his original artwork, which had been framed, and one of the 2013 Spring Cleanup T-shirts. Rogers gave Stephens the PRIDE Volunteer of the Month Award for his contribution to recruiting Spring Cleanup volunteers. “I want to congratulate Casey on winning this very competitive contest,” Rogers said. “PRIDE received 1,525 contest entries from students across our region. I am very impressed by such an enthusiastic response to the contest. I applaud all the students who put their creativity and talent to work for such a good cause.” “In our region, we have made a tradition of winning big as PRIDE volunteers," Rogers continued. “We ‘knock out litter’ during PRIDE Spring Cleanup Month every April so it doesn’t stand in the way of enjoying our beautiful landscape or attracting tourists. Just last year, nearly 27,000 Spring Cleanup volunteers eliminated more than 50,000 bags of trash from our ditches and shorelines in one month. I invite everyone to join the Spring Cleanup tradition this April.” In addition to Rogers, speakers at the ceremony will include McCreary County Judge-Executive Doug Stephens, Superintendent Donnie Wright and Principal Forest Jones. “Casey is a fun loving, happy boy,” Jones said. “Art is one of his favorite classes because he enjoys drawing and making things. He likes school, especially because he enjoys seeing his friends every day.” Jones said that math and PE are Stephens’ other favorite subjects. He enjoys spending time with his family, especially when they attend University ofKentucky football games. His hobbies include Legos, swimming, camping, basketball and soccer. During PRIDE Spring Cleanup Month in April, communities will recruit volunteers to pick up litter. PRIDE will provide free T-shirts, trash bags and gloves for the volunteers, as well as funding for local governments to dispose of litter, remove dumps and offer free trash drop-off events. On April 13, one of the most popular Spring Cleanup events will be held at Cumberland Falls State Resort Park. Volunteers who pick up roadside litter near the park will receive a free PRIDE T-shirt, lunch and chance at door prizes. The two-hour cleanup will begin at 10 a.m., with volunteer registration opening at 9 a.m. at the gift shop. Last year, the event drew 510 volunteers. The 2013 PRIDE Spring Cleanup is made possible in part by a grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the following sponsors: Waste Connections of Kentucky (Gold Sponsor), Outdoor Venture Corporation (Silver Sponsor), Walmart (Silver Sponsor), Hacker Brothers, Inc. (Bronze Sponsor), Lightyear Network Solutions (Bronze Sponsor) and Owens Auto & Truck Parts (Bronze Sponsor). To volunteer for the Spring Cleanup, call the PRIDE office, toll-free number, at 888-577-4339. The PRIDE web site is www.kypride.org. ###
02.27.2013	Today, during an Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with the U.S. Corps of Engineers, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the full House Appropriations Committee, pressed for answers on why the Corps has continued to delay issuing individual mining permits. After a federal judge struck down the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) so-called “Enhanced Coordination Process" last year, sole authority over the issuance of Clean Water Act Section 404 permits was restored to the Corps of Engineers. However, despite these developments, there has been no apparent end to the deadlock in the permitting process and according to coal industry sources, contributed to the loss of more than 2,000 southern and eastern Kentucky coal mining jobs. Photo cutline: Rogers speaking at the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with U.S. Corps of Engineers General Thomas Bostick and Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) Jo Ellen Darcy. “In particular, I expect some explanation for why the Corps continues to drag its feet in issuing mining permits under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. This continued deadlock is shuttering mines and adding thousands to unemployment lines in Kentucky and throughout Appalachia. Both the Congress, led by this Subcommittee, and the federal courts have lambasted the Corps for allowing continued EPA interference into the regulatory process. With the NMA v. Jackson court decision striking down the EPA’s so-called “Enhanced Coordination Process” as illegal once and for all, we have returned to the status quo where the Corps has sole authority over 404 permits. Without further EPA meddling, the Corps should be off to the races approving permits and putting miners back to work. And yet, almost a year and a half after that court decision loosened the reins, there’s been almost no change. I urge you to explain what is causing this delay – is it further political interference designed to kill coal, or just mere incompetence?” --U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers To view the full text of Congressman Rogers opening statement at the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing click here To listen to the audio of Congressman Rogers opening statement at the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcomittee hearing click here Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
02.26.2013	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites all high school students in the Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. Thousands of high school students from across the nation participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. One winner from each Congressional District is chosen to have their artwork displayed at the Capitol for one year, where more than three million visitors pass through every year. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way for students in southern and eastern Kentucky to showcase their unique talents and receive the opportunity to display their artwork in the Capitol for an entire year,” said Rogers. “It is a pleasure to walk through the halls of the Capitol and see a piece of home hanging right here in Washington, representing our region. I look forward to reviewing this year’s submissions and encourage all students from 9th to 12th grade to participate in the competition.” Last year, Jeffery Couch submitted the winning artwork from Knott Central High School. He submitted a drawing entitled, “Entranced,” which captured his younger sister reading one of her favorite books while seated under a tree near their home. Jeffery is the son of Jeffery and Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. Click here for competition guidelines and information. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by April 19, 2013. The top three regional winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard District Offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual Awards Ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county. Prestonsburg District Office (Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike, Rowan, Elliott, Carter and Boyd counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Owsley, and Perry counties) 48 S. KY Hwy. 15 Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne, Whitley and Lincoln counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here from more information on the Congressional Art Compeition PHOTO CUTLINE: Congressman Rogers congratulated the 5th District 2012 Congressional Art Competition Winner, Jeffery Couch of Kite, KY Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
02.26.2013	Today, during a Defense Subcommittee hearing with military leaders, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, shared his plan to support the Department of Defense budget in the midst of the President's looming sequestration. The Department of Defense is poised for the sequestration's greatest cuts, threatening at least 8% of its budget. Last year, the House voted twice to prevent the President's proposed sequestration and now Chairman Rogers says its time for our Commander in Chief to "put forward an acceptable alternative." Click the picture above to hear Rogers' opening statement at the Defense Subcommittee hearing on fiscal challenges. "Like many of my colleagues, I believe sequestration is both terrible politics and a terrible policy. It will have a devastating effect on important programs and services, most notably taking its toll on our service men and women and our defense capability. The President’s sequestration approach represents a haphazard, negligent, and indiscriminate approach to governing; an abdication of leadership. As you men know, leadership is about making choices, tough choices. Sequestration is about not making choices. I had hoped our Commander in Chief would have put forward an acceptable alternative to this near term disaster, but we are all still waiting. Last year, the House voted twice to resist these across-the-board cuts, only to have the White House criticize and disparage. "These cuts will gravely impair the Defense Department’s mission capabilities, troop training, equipment and supply lines, research and development efforts, and our overall readiness. Today, it is my hope that we can have an honest and open dialogue to discuss the very real impacts of the pending sequestration, exactly where cuts will occur, and the forced steps the military is taking to mitigate these effects. No question cuts can be made to nearly each and every Department, but this approach will certainly lead to more costs, not less, and less 21st Century security, not more." --U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers Visit Congressman Rogers' YouTube channel to watch his entire speech during the Defense Subcommittee hearing on Tuesday, February 26, 2013. ###
02.12.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was the keynote speaker for Leadership Tri-County's annual banquet on Monday, February 11, 2013 to honor the recipient of the "Dr. William Hacker Leader of the Year Award." This year, the organization selected Rogers' Chief Adviser and former District Administrator, Bob Mitchell, for his tireless leadership efforts and outstanding accomplishments in Laurel, Knox and Whitley Counties. More than 200 people attended the banquet at the Corbin Area Technology Center in Corbin, Kentucky. "Bob Mitchell has dedicated more than 30 years and countless resources to improve his home region. Bob has been a steadfast advocate for the people of the Tri-County area, and all of the Fifth Congressional District, plowing new ground for jobs, flood protection, educational opportunities, tourism, and the war on drugs," said Rogers. "Bob's sheer tenacity and courage of conviction have certainly helped transform our region over the last three decades." While serving as Rogers’ District Director, Mitchell oversaw dozens of regional projects that resulted in thousands of Kentucky families receiving access to clean water and improved flood protection, better road infrastructure, modern healthcare facilities, and opportunities for stable, good-paying jobs. Mitchell's guidance was instrumental in launching non-profit organizations like; the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation for job creation, Forward in the Fifth for education, The Center for Rural Development, TOUR Southern and Eastern Kentucky to promote tourism, PRIDE for environmental education and clean-ups, as well as Operation UNITE in fighting drug abuse. "I can't call it work, because I enjoy it too much," said Mitchell during his acceptance speech. "It has been a pleasure to plan projects with Congressman Rogers to bring more opportunities to this region over the years." Rogers and Mitchell applauded the regionalized work of Leadership Tri-County and the organization's efforts to provide unique leadership opportunities across county lines. Each year, Leadership Tri-County also offers a $1,000 scholarship to a high school senior from each of the three counties it serves. LTC President, Miles Estes presents Bob Mitchell with the 2013 Leader of the Year Award, as his wife, Nancy Mitchell stands by his side ####
02.11.2013	Today, on February 11, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) and Governor Steve Beshear joined federal, state and local officials to announce a unique $29.3 million funding effort to help Morgan County rebuild from the disastrous storm and tornado damage suffered in March 2012. The funds, supported by both public and private sectors, will support the reconstruction of five major building projects in the county – projects that are critical to stabilizing services and restoring a sense of permanency to the community. Photo cutline: Rogers joins (L-R) House Majority Leader Rocky Adkins, State Rep. John Will Stacy, Governor Steve Beshear, Morgan County Judge Executive Tim Conley, ARC Federal C0-Chair Earl Gohl, and other federal, state, and local officials in West Liberty to announce a $30 million revitalization project for the tornado-ravaged county. “The destruction I witnessed in Morgan County last spring was unlike anything I have ever seen. I can tell you that Kentucky’s heart was broken by what our fellow citizens experienced,” said Gov. Beshear. “Immediately, we joined forces with our local and federal partners, and together, we began to restore services and rebuild West Liberty and Morgan County. But what will really make West Liberty and Morgan County feel like home again is reconstructing those key places that mark a hometown, like the courthouse. When complete, these projects will serve as symbols to citizens of better things to come.” "This multimillion dollar project represents hope for the future of Morgan County and applauds the resiliency of Kentuckians," said Congressman Rogers. "Organizations from across the Commonwealth and people of all ages, Boy Scouts and Disabled American Veterans alike have been a part of the recovery process in West Liberty, volunteering time, food and various resources to get this community back on its feet. Together, we join in celebration for the progress of Morgan County and look forward to revisiting the new, improved West Liberty very soon." The March tornadoes caused vast devastation in Kentucky, with the brunt of damage falling on West Liberty and Morgan County. Statewide, 25 people were killed, and more than 4,500 homes were affected; 671 of those were destroyed and 588 had major damage. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided $10.3 million in housing and other assistance to individuals. Kentucky cities and counties have requested $29 million to repair and replace infrastructure, buildings and equipment, of which $16.8 million has been obligated to date by FEMA. This inclusive recovery effort sets to rebuild much of the damage in Morgan County by utilizing several different funding sources from the federal, state, local and private sectors. The overall recovery effort includes the construction and reconstruction of five building projects in Morgan County. Those projects include: · Construction of the new Morgan Co. Recovery Center - $9.4 million · Reconstruction of the Morgan Co. Office Building and Community Center - $6 million · Reconstruction of the old Morgan Co. Courthouse - $2.4 million · Construction of the new Morgan Co. Extension Office - $2.3 million · Construction of the new Morgan Co. Parking Structure - $3.8 million The new courthouse under construction at the time of the tornadoes will be rebuilt using insurance proceeds, so other dedicated funding was not necessary. Some project funding from the Administrative Office of the Courts will be used for furnishings and fixtures for the building. “I am grateful for the collaborative effort made by all involved,” said Sen. Robert Stivers. “It’s a testament to the people of Morgan how they have bounced back, and I acknowledge them for those great strides and also commend both local and state officials who have shown how all levels of government can work together, regardless of party or title.” “I want to thank everyone who partnered in today’s announcement – federal, state, county, and city officials – and especially Governor Steve Beshear,” said Rep. John Will Stacy. “This is a great step, but we need to continue to focus on creating good paying, permanent jobs for citizens in Morgan, Menifee and other affected counties.” “The residents of West Liberty have shown an awe-inspiring resilience through this unspeakable tragedy,” said West Liberty Mayor Jim Rupe. “I am truly proud to be a part of this courageous community and am greatly thankful for all of the first responders, community organizers, local, state and federal officials who have joined together to help West Liberty recover and come back better than ever.” “On March 2, 2012, we witnessed firsthand the worst disaster that Morgan County has ever seen. On that day, we vowed that we would see the recovery of this community through to the end,” said Morgan County Judge-Executive Tim Conley. “This day marks a significant step in the recovery process, and I want to thank Governor Beshear, Congressman Rogers and all of the federal, state, and local officials and residents who are working together to rebuild this community.” Bond Capacity Increased through Transportation Support Before any of these projects could move forward, Morgan County needed more bonding capacity. In order to accelerate the rebuilding, the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet stepped in and satisfied $2.8 million in old road bonds owed by the county. This move allowed the county to finance the major projects at one time. The combined funding for these projects is comprised of New Market Tax Credits, federal grants, state grants, and a small amount of new debt. New Market Tax Credits In particular, the availability of New Market Tax Credits has been instrumental in securing and leveraging complete funding for this recovery effort. This funding source accounts for 30 percent of the total funding available. The New Markets Tax Credits program is a federal tax credit administered by the U.S. Treasury. The credit is a 39 percent tax credit spread over 7 years, and it is designed to provide private capital in areas of the country that would not normally see that type of investment, such as rural distressed regions. Each year, the U.S. Treasury allocates credits to organizations around the country called Community Development Entities (CDE’s). In developing this project, it was necessary to find credit allocations from CDE’s and identify investors to purchase the credits in order to provide capital to the project. JP Morgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp agreed to purchase the credits for this project, creating a $9 million investment for the rebuilding effort. This investment by JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp enabled all of the various building projects to proceed because the funds helped leverage the other needed financing that was provided through grants and bonding. The funding sources and amounts for these projects include: · Insurance Proceeds to Morgan County from KACO: $10.5 million · New Markets Tax Credits proceeds: $9 million · Morgan County Extension Office contribution $2 million · Kentucky Administrative Office of the Courts $1.65 million · Morgan County Fiscal Court bond proceeds: $1.5 million · FEMA Mitigation Grant: $1.5 million · LKLP, Inc. (Federal Transit Grant) $1 million · Kentucky Infrastructure Authority (City of W. Liberty) $900,000 · Appalachian Regional Commission $750,000 · Community Development Block Grant $500,000 The remaining funds will be used for development and closing fees; compliance and audit fees and reserve accounts. ###
02.08.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced today that he will join Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear, along with other federal, state and local officials for a community meeting on Monday, February 11, 2013 for a major project funding announcement and groundbreaking ceremony for the tornado recovery and rebuilding efforts in West Liberty, Kentucky. On March 2, 2012, a deadly tornado ripped through Morgan County, demolishing buildings in downtown West Liberty, along with dozens of homes and businesses across the county. Thanks to vital partnerships, a multimillion dollar project is being launched to rebuild Morgan County. The public is invited to attend. Who: Congressman Hal Rogers, Gov. Steve Beshear, State Senate President Robert Stivers, State Sen. John Will Stacy, Morgan County Judge Executive Tim Conley, project investors and more. What: Project Funding Announcement and Groundbreaking Ceremony for the Morgan County Recovery Project When: Monday, February 11, 2013 at 10:00 a.m. (EST) Where: Morgan County High School, located at 150 Road to Success, West Liberty, KY 41472 Photo: Congressman Rogers receives a "Rebuilding Morgan County" golden hammer from Morgan County Judge Executive Tim Conley, August 2012 ###
02.06.2013	On Wednesday, February 6, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) welcomed Coach John Calipari to Capitol Hill to tour the nation’s Capitol and meet with fellow lawmakers. On February 7, Coach Calipari and Assistant Coach Orlando Antigua will join Chairman and Mrs. Rogers as their guests to the National Prayer Breakfast. Photo Cutline: Calipari presents Rogers with a piece of the floor of the 2012 NCAA National Championship game. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
02.06.2013	On Wednesday, February 6, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) received the Congressional Leadership Award from the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA) for his unwavering commitment to keeping America’s youth drug and alcohol free. Rogers was joined by Senator Bob Casey, U.S. Reps Michael Fitzpatrick and Frank Wolf in receiving this honor for their work in helping to strengthen drug prevention and treatment programs across the country. Photo Cutline: Rogers accepts CADCA's Congressional Leadership Award during CADCA's 23rd Annual National Leadership Forum “In Kentucky, we’ve been fighting the prescription drug abuse battle for over a decade now. When we were making impressive strides in moving Appalachia forward, seemingly out of nowhere, pain pills and pain clinics started showing up and began destroying families and home lives and creating a sense of despair throughout the region,” stated Rogers. “So we went to work in southern eastern Kentucky to tackle the problem from the top-down and from the bottom-up. Through programs like Operation UNITE, we got after the drug pushers, got our users help, and got our kids hooked on fishing, shooting hoops and committing to drug-free lifestyles. While much work still lies ahead, I am confident that through the support of organizations like CADCA, we can change the drug culture and make it possible for others to overcome this life-destroying addiction.” CADCA (Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America), is the national membership organization representing over 5,000 coalitions and affiliates working to make America’s communities safe, healthy and drug-free. CADCA's mission is to strengthen the capacity of community coalitions to create and maintain safe, healthy and drug-free communities globally. CADCA’s Congressional Leadership Award recognizes outstanding members of Congress who have championed legislation and strategies to protect and enhance the federal role in substance abuse prevention, education, treatment and research. Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in 2009. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
01.29.2013	Photo: Congressman Rogers with Summit Aviation employees SOMERSET, KY -- Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined executives from Northrup Grumman Corporation and Summit Aviation at a news conference at the Lake Cumberland Regional Airport to announce a partnership that will create and sustain jobs in southern Kentucky. Summit Aviation is now manufacturing the protective Faraday cage that will be used in the U.S. Navy's MQ-8C Fire Scout, an unmanned helicopter assembled by Northrup Grumman. The Faraday cage protects the helicopter's electrical components from lightning damage and electromagnetic interference (EMI). Summit Aviation delivered the first completed cage during the news conference. "This equipment will save lives. These high-tech unmanned helicopters allow our military to gain vital intelligence while eliminating the need to put our men and women in uniform in danger," said Rogers. "Our workforce has proven we're up to the challenge and I applaud Northrup Grumman and Summit Aviation for investing high quality jobs in our rural region." For more details about the MQ-8C Fire Scout, click here to read the news release from Northrup Grumman Corporation. Click here to view more photos from the news conference. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
01.28.2013	On Monday, January 28, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) sent FDA Commissioner, Dr. Margaret Hamburg, a letter urging immediate action on the recent recommendations of the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee (DSaRM) regarding the prescription of hydrocodone combination drugs, like Vicodin and Lortab. During a two-day public meeting held by the FDA, which took place January 24- 25, a number of scientific studies highlighted the risks of hydrocodone combination drugs. At the conclusion of the meeting, DSaRM members voted to recommend tighter restrictions on those prescriptions. “Due in part to their widespread availability, hydrocodone combination drugs remain some of the most frequently abused prescriptions,” stated Rogers, co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Unfortunately, countless families across the nation have experienced the devastation caused by abuse of drugs like these hydro-combo pills. With the recent recommendation of the FDA Advisory Panel, Commissioner Hamburg has an opportunity to make a positive impact in our Nation’s struggle against prescription drug abuse, and I encourage her to use her full authority to place additional restrictions on the prescription of hydro-combo drugs.” Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in 2009. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
01.25.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the approval of a $45 million loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD) for a much needed expansion project for the Pikeville Medical Center in Pikeville, Kentucky. "The Pikeville Medical Center is rapidly outgrowing its facilities and this loan will fast-track the hospital's expansion project," said Rogers. "Our rural region suffers from some of the highest health disparities in the nation, but I commend PMC President/C.E.O. Walter May for his vision and commitment to changing those statistics and diligently working to relieve our families from healthcare burdens. I also applaud the USDA-Rural Development office for recognizing the direct impact its funding support will have in improving medical services for the thousands of families who rely on healthcare at the Pikeville Medical Center." The loan will be used to construct two additional floors to the parking garage and convert the top three floors of the medical office building into physician exam rooms. In 2010, the medical center was awarded a $44.6 million Community Facility Direct loan to construct a new medical office building and a parking garage. This additional funding is vital to meet the hospital’s dramatic growth since construction began on the original project. Pikeville Medical Center is a regional facility, providing health care services to a rural population of nearly 69,000 in Eastern Kentucky and portions of Virginia and West Virginia. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
01.18.2013	U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement relating to the announcement from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers-Nashville District that the Wolf Creek Dam Foundation Remediation Project is ahead of schedule. The Corps of Engineers is making plans to raise the water level about 20 feet in Lake Cumberland to an elevation of 700 to 705 feet for the summer. “Lt. Col. James DeLapp personally called me Thursday with wonderful news that construction at Wolf Creek Dam is ahead of schedule, meaning the crown jewel of Southern Kentucky will be ready for the summer tourism season. Our marinas, local businesses, and local lake enthusiasts have been patient, suffering business lows due to the low pool levels at Lake Cumberland and continuous delays in construction at the dam. However, I commend Lt. Col. DeLapp for bringing a renewed vigor to this project over the last year and understanding that Wolf Creek Dam is a national priority. Now it’s time to spread the word, Lake Cumberland is open for business.” --U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-05) Click here to read the news release from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers-Nashville District. ###
01.16.2013	On Tuesday, January 15, 2013, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) recognized the 151th anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs by reintroducing bipartisan legislation to honor and preserve the historic Civil War site, Mill Springs Battlefield. Occurring on January 19, 1862 in Pulaski and Wayne counties, the Battle of Mill Springs was the first significant victory for the Union Army in the west and blazed a trail for Union troops to move from Kentucky into Tennessee. The Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) has led efforts to acquire, preserve and maintain this battlefield for future generations; to date, over 50,000 Civil War enthusiasts have visited the 500-acre battlefield. U.S. Reps John Yarmuth (KY-03), Brett Guthrie (KY-05) and Andy Barr (KY-06) joined as cosponsors to this bill. “This year I am proud to reintroduce legislation to commemorate the historic Battle of Mill Springs and honor those who gave their lives on Kentucky soil. This battle notably affected the outcome of the Civil War, and impacted our nation’s history,” said Rogers. “While the battlefield is already a National Historic Landmark, and a treasured part of our community, I am proud to stand with Members of the Kentucky delegation in seeking to include this historic site into the National Park Service so that we may ensure its preservation for years to come.” Rogers reintroduced binding legislation (H.R. 298) that directs the National Park Service (NPS) to conduct a study to evaluate incorporating the battlefield into the national park system. If approved by Congress, the federally-led analysis would consider the economic and educational impacts that inclusion of Mill Springs would have on surrounding communities, impact to landowners, and cost of federal government operation. Currently, the Mill Springs Battlefield is being preserved and maintained through private sources, but adding the Mill Springs Battlefield site into the National Park Service will ensure its preservation for generations to come. Previously, Rogers secured over $1.35 million in federal funding to enhance the visitor experience at Mill Springs. The Battle of Mill Springs was the second largest battle to take place in Kentucky and the first significant Union victory in the western theater of the Civil War. In addition, the battle also marks the death of Confederate General Felix Zollicoffer. The battle highly contributed to the outcome of the war, as the main Confederate defensive line that was anchored in eastern Kentucky was broken so that the Union army could move through Kentucky and into Tennessee for the major battles at Fort Donelson and Shiloh, Tennessee. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov<http://www.halrogers.house.gov/> . ###
01.10.2013	On January 10, 2013, U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) and U.S. Rep Nick Rahall (WV-03) announced the re-launch of the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The goal of the caucus is to raise awareness of abuse and to develop innovative and effective treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research policy solutions in the federal sphere. Rogers and Rahall will serve as co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “In Kentucky, the prescription drug abuse problem casts a dark shadow over our close-knit communities, particularly targeting our young people,” said Rogers. “Today, this drug problem not only affects my congressional district, but has magnified in scope and intensity, cross-cutting geographical and socio-economic boundaries, hitting communities across the country. As lawmakers began to recognize the scope and devastation of this scourge, the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse was launched in 2009 to help unite legislators and interested parties in preventing the misuse of powerful narcotics. With the help of Congressman Rahall, I am confident that solutions are within reach and that we can continue to make a difference in Washington in this battle against prescription drug abuse.” “Every day in southern West Virginia, news stories confront us about the vicious cycle prescription drugs wreak upon on our communities: crime, child neglect, overdoses, death, and whole families torn apart,” said Rahall. “We are traveling a difficult and challenging path to save an entire generation of Americans, but working with my friend, Congressman Rogers, and the commitment of our colleagues in Congress for action on a national level, our goal is to explore, develop and expand solutions to conquer the problem of prescription drug abuse. This may be the biggest challenge of our society, and the only way this destructive trend can be reversed is if everyone — I mean, everyone – gets involved. Our nation’s future – our children’s and grandchildren’s future – hangs in the balance.” According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA), the number of emergency room visits from prescription drug abuse has nearly doubled in America over the last five years. Equally troubling, there has been a staggering 400 percent increase over the past decade in the number of hospital admissions for prescription drug abuse. Clearly, this is a growing and alarming trend which is impacting people of all ages, but it creates additional problems for our children and their families. In the 112th Congress, nearly three dozen members the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse worked across the aisle to raise awareness of the problem nationwide and to help develop effective policy solutions. Of note, members of the Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus rallied behind initiatives to support prescription data sharing across state lines; participated in a congressional panel at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit hosted by Operation UNITE in Orlando; engaged high-ranking officials in the Administration on the prescription drug epidemic through hearings, letters and briefings; and introduced legislation to keep crushable generic pain pills from flooding the streets and a bill to require continuing education for prescribers of powerful narcotics. Members also worked to secure federal funding for programs that address the issue of prescription drug abuse holistically, such as drug courts, prevention and treatment initiatives, support for collaboration among federal, state and local law enforcement, and vital research programs aimed at reducing the prescription drug abuse epidemic. Rogers joined with former Representative Mary Bono Mack to form the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in 2009. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
01.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was sworn in with the 113th Congress on January 3, 2013, for his 17th term as the U.S. Representative for Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District. The Congress gains 84 new House members and 13 freshmen in the Senate. Rogers released the following statement about the start of the 113th Congress: "It is an honor to begin my 33rd consecutive year serving the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, many of whom have become dear friends, colleagues and advisors. "Over the years, we have made steady improvements to our region’s infrastructure, job creation, environmental restoration, and economic growth, but the perilous fiscal condition of our country now requires even more leadership and wise decision-making. "I will continue to press Washington to operate within its means, promote small business growth, enact meaningful entitlement and tax reform, and support our men and women in uniform and our nation’s proud veterans. " The one thing I'm sure of, is that this is still America, the land of promise and opportunity. "Thank you for standing shoulder to shoulder with me for progress across southern and eastern Kentucky, and entrusting me to be your voice on Capitol Hill for more than three decades." Click the photo to watch the swearing-in of the 113th Congress. ###
12.27.2012	U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding today's announcement that Lisa Jackson is resigning from her post as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) after a nearly four-year tenure. Rogers questioned Jackson on several occasions about the EPA's "war on coal" in Appalachia and consequently cut the EPA's budget below 1998 levels as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. “News of Lisa Jackson’s resignation from the EPA is like a late Christmas gift to the Appalachian coal fields. Under her charge, the war on coal raged as the EPA overstepped Congress year after year, and her refusal to approve mining permits has cost our region thousands of jobs and further disrupted America’s economy. I hope her successor will understand the importance of coal and preserving our jobs with sensible environmental regulations. It’s time to get our coal miners back to work by embracing domestic energy solutions that will shore up our country’s economy for the long term.” Visit http://halrogers.house.gov/UploadedFiles/JacksonResigns.mp3 to download a :45-second radio actuality. ###
12.21.2012	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Friday, December 21, 2012, Rogers' Field Representative Pat Wooton delivered more than 100 books to the Lee County Public Library. “The Library of Congress often receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Wooton presented Lee County Public Library Director, Sonya Spencer with five boxes of adult literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Lee County Library," said Spencer. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has also collected books for West Liberty Elementary School, the Magoffin County Public Library and the McCreary County Public Library. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
12.21.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Friday, December 21, 2012, Rogers' Field Representative Grayson Smith delivered more than 100 books to the Magoffin County Public Library. “The Library of Congress often receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during tough economic times." Smith presented Magoffin County Public Library Director, Melanie Cain with five boxes of adult literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the Magoffin County Library," said Cain. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has also collected books for West Liberty Elementary School, the McCreary County Public Library and the Lee County Public Library. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
12.18.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives urging the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to do more to combat prescription drug abuse. In particular, Rogers pressed the FDA to act swiftly in addressing an impending deadline with potentially dangerous consequences – the expiration of patents on the original formulations of highly addictive prescription painkillers like OxyContin and Opana ER that lack tamper-resistant properties. If the FDA fails to act by January 1, many fear that the marketplace could be flooded with cheap, generic crushable prescription pills ripe for abuse and misuse. “After OxyContin came on the market fifteen years ago, a wave of overdose deaths devastated entire towns in my region of Appalachian Kentucky before spreading like wildfire to big cities and suburban communities across the country,” said Rogers, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “By crushing these pain pills, abusers can experience a euphoric – but oftentimes deadly – high. But today, the FDA has an opportunity keep these crushable pills out of our children’s reach. A number of prescription medicines already on the market use tamper-resistant technologies that can cut back on abuse. No generic pill should come to market without these life-saving features.” Click the picture above to view Congressman Rogers speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives To view a full copy of the Congressman’s speech, click here Click here to view the Congressman’s opinion editorial published in the Hill’s Congress Blog Rogers is co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ###
12.14.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) has been collecting surplus books from the Library of Congress to help stock and replace books in small public libraries across southern and eastern Kentucky. On Thursday, December 13, 2012, Rogers' Field Representative Shannon Rickett delivered more than 100 books to the McCreary County Public Library. “The Library of Congress often receives duplicate copies of books that can be donated to other libraries in need," said Rogers. "So, this is a simple way to help our public libraries stock their shelves and replace older books during touch economic times." Rickett presented McCreary County Public Library Director, Kay Morrow with five boxes of adult literature. "We are so thankful that the Congressman took time to think about us here at the McCreary County Library," said Morrow. "These books will be a nice addition to our collection for the public to enjoy." So far, Rogers has also collected books for West Liberty Elementary School, the Magoffin County Public Library and the Lee County Public Library. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #### Photo Cutline: Shannon Rickett, Field Rep. for Congressman Rogers presents Kay Morrow with books from the Library of Congress
12.10.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) named the Pulaski County Solid Waste and Recycling Coordinator, Gerald Hines a "Hal Rogers Difference Maker." During an event to unveil southern and eastern Kentucky's first-ever curbside recycling program in Pulaski County, Rogers commended Hines for his leadership. “There are few people who go above and beyond to make a difference in the way we live, and Gerald Hines is one of those great leaders in our region,” said Rogers. "Recycling in Pulaski County is now as easy as sending your trash to the landfill, but it's more cost effective and safer for the environment. It's Gerald's vision and leadership that brought this service to our rural region." Rogers presented Hines with a "Hal Rogers Difference Maker" Award in recognition of his exemplary leadership and dedication to recycling and environmental education in southern Kentucky, including his steadfast partnership with the PRIDE organization. Since the Pulaski County Recycling Center opened in 2007, nearly 18 million pounds of material have been recycled. 25 schools and headstart programs in Pulaski County currently recycle, as well as numerous governmental offices, including Congressman Rogers' Somerset District Office. Now, 12,000 Pulaski County residential customers will receive curbside recycling bins. "Curbside recycling is part of the bigger picture that PRIDE initialized 15 years ago, encouraging people across southern and eastern Kentucky to do their part to clean up the environment," added Rogers. "Our youth are leading the way in our schools with 55 student-designed recycling projects. Their eagerness to participate in PRIDE activities have helped spark interest in volunteers of all ages." To date, more than 1.3 million volunteers have joined PRIDE in cleaning up southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
12.03.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Shannon Rickett as his new Field Representative for the Cumberland Valley area. Rickett will serve Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lincoln, McCreary, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley Counties. "Shannon was born and raised in Corbin and knows first-hand, many of the issues and concerns of the people of southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. "She is already well-known in the region, because of her volunteer efforts and her position with the National Institute for Hometown Security. Shannon's expertise and knowledge of government operations will be a great benefit for the counties she now serves.” Rickett brings a wealth of experience and education to the Rogers' team. She has a Juris Doctorate from the Baylor University School of Law and a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration from the University of Louisville where she attended as a McConnell Scholar. For the last six years, Shannon has worked as the Director of Commercialization for the National Institute for Hometown Security in Somerset, Kentucky. “It is an honor to work with Congressman Rogers and to be a part of improving my home region,” said Rickett. "I'm eager to meet with community leaders to find ways to build upon the successful projects already in place in southern and eastern Kentucky." Rickett will work out of the Somerset District Office and joins Congressman Rogers' team of Field Representatives, including Grayson Smith who works in the Prestonsburg District Office and serves the counties in the Big Sandy Area Development District (A.D.D.), FIVCO A.D.D., and Gateway A.D.D.; Pat Wooton who works in the Hazard District Office and serves the counties in the Kentucky River A.D.D.; and District Director Chris Girdler who works in the Somerset District Office and serves Pulaski County. Danielle Smoot, who represented the Cumberland Valley area now serves as Congressman Rogers' Communications Director. Shannon lives in Corbin, Kentucky and is the daughter of Jerry and Elaine Rickett. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visithttp://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitterhttps://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebookhttps://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #### Shannon Rickett, New Field Representative for Congressman Rogers
12.03.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announces the location of his new Hazard District Office at 48 South Highway 15 in Hazard, Kentucky. The office is conveniently located on Highway 15 beside the CVS Pharmacy across from the Black Gold Shopping Center. “The Hazard Office is a great resource of the families living in the central portion of the Fifth Congressional District," said Congressman Rogers. "The new location on the bypass will be more visible and convenient for people who need to visit the office.” Field Representative Pat Wooton and Caseworker Nan Estep are available in the Hazard office Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The office number remains the same, 606-439-0794. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
11.28.2012	Today, the House Republican Conference elected Congressman Hal Rogers to a second term as Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations. Chairman Rogers made the following statement: “I am honored and grateful to have been selected by the Republican Conference to serve a second term as Chairman of the Appropriations Committee. Over the past two years, I’ve been proud to oversee the Committee’s responsible shepherding of federal tax dollars under an open and transparent process – saving the American tax payer almost $100 billion.” Chairman Rogers said. “I look forward to continuing this important work on behalf of the American people, making the necessary strides to get the nation’s finances on track, reducing unnecessary government spending, and investing in important programs that will benefit the nation both now and in the future.” #####
11.05.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 5, 2012 Contact: Danielle Smoot (606) 679-8346 Rogers Focused on War on Coal and Fiscal Cliff During Regional Tour SOMERSET, KY - Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) focused on the "Fiscal Cliff" our nation faces and the ongoing "War on Coal" during his tour across the region last week, October 29th through November 1st. Rogers also celebrated local progress and strong leadership in southern and eastern Kentucky. On Monday, October 29th, Rogers kicked off the regional tour with Operation UNITE, AmeriCorps and Remix Education for a drug-free rally at Highland Elementary School in Johnson County. Students from each grade created a "Hal Rogers Hallway" to welcome him to the school, commemorating his 32-years of service to the region. During the rally, Rogers commended UNITE Service Corps members who tutor students in math and reading, while incorporating drug-free education. Thanks to AmeriCorps, 44 UNITE Service Corps members are working in eleven southern and eastern Kentucky schools. Rogers applauded Wendy Spencer, executive officer of the Washington, D.C.-based organization that directs the AmeriCorps initiative for her leadership in the program. Highland Elementary UNITE Club and AmeriCorps Members On Monday evening, more than 400 people braved the snow storm resulting from Hurricane Sandy for the the UNITE Bluegrass Policy Forum on Substance Abuse at Jenny Wiley State Resort Park, raising more than $75,000 for the treatment and prevention efforts of Operation UNITE and Recovery Kentucky. Congressman Rogers joined panelists Governor Steve Beshear, Kentucky House Speaker Greg Stumbo, State Sen. Robert Stivers, State Rep. Rocky Adkins, and State Sen. Brandon Smith. KET's Renee Shaw moderated the discussion on federal, state and local efforts in the war on drugs. The leaders praised Kentucky House Bill 1, as well as national efforts to interconnect state-based prescription drug monitoring programs. However, they also acknowledged the need for long-term solutions, more access to treatment and continuous tracking of drug trends. “The Centers for Disease Control calls it a national epidemic. We have got more people dying of prescription drug overdoses than car wrecks,” said Rogers. “It doesn’t seem to me the public is alarmed enough about the problem.” Rogers Speaks at Bluegrass Policy Forum on Substance Abuse On Tuesday, October 30th, Rogers joined the Jenny Wiley Drama Association and City of Pikeville Commissioners to break-ground for an indoor theatre in downtown Pikeville. The facility will be an extension of the Jenny Wiley amphitheatre in Prestonsburg where outdoor dramas will continue during the warmer months. "The people of eastern Kentucky have talent in their genes," said Rogers. "I hope this is a facility becomes a place where our stars can realize their dreams here at home." Ground-breaking for the Jenny Wiley Indoor Theatre in Pikeville Also on Tuesday, Rogers shared a legislative update during a Martin County Community Luncheon at Miss Ida's Tea Room in Inez, KY. During the meeting, the Roy F. Collier Martin County Community Center board members presented Rogers with an award of appreciation for his support of the facility. Rogers Shares a Legislative Update with Martin County Community Members Afterwards, Rogers visited the Booth Energy Center in Martin County to discuss the state of the coal mining industry with President and CEO Jim Booth and his staff. More than 2,000 coal miners have been laid off in Kentucky this year alone and only two individual surface mining permits have been approved in the last three years. Rogers vowed to continue his steadfast support of the industry. Rogers visits Booth Energy Center On Wednesday, October 31st, Rogers helped Operation UNITE deliver a Med Return Box to the Somerset Police Department's Substation at the Somerset Mall. The box provides a secure way for residents to clean out their medicine cabinets and get rid of old or unwanted prescription medications. Once collected, the prescription drugs will be destroyed by the UNITE Pill Dragon, which has incinerated more than one million pills in two years. "Studies show that most teenagers admitted they first abused prescription drugs from a parent or friend's medicine cabinet without permission," said Rogers. "We need to do our part to fight drug abuse, by cleaning out those old prescriptions we have stored in our own homes. Now, you can conveniently and safely get rid of them at the Somerset Police Department's Substation at the Somerset Mall." Rogers and UNITE Delivered Med Return Box to Somerset Police Substation Also on Wednesday, Kentucky Farm Bureau Federation members presented Rogers with the "Friend of Farm Bureau" award at the Haney Appledale Farm in Nancy, KY. Rogers has won the award eight times in honor of his support for the industry. Mark Haney presents Rogers with "Friend of Farm Bureau Award" On Thursday, November 1st, Rogers traveled to the Cumberland Valley region, making his first stop in Bell County to tour the Middlesboro Bottling Company and to meet with members of the Kentucky Beverage Association. Rogers speaks to employees at Middlesboro Bottling Company Rogers then joined local leaders and 100 community members for a legislative update at the Pine Mountain State Resort Park in Pineville. Rogers shared his concerns for the coal industry and the state of the national economy. He also praised local efforts in the war on drugs and the PRIDE cleanup campaign. Rogers Speaks at Bell County Legislative Update In Harlan County, Rogers visited with students, faculty and staff at the Southeast Kentucky Community and Technical College who participate in the Accelerating Opportunities program on the Harlan Campus. The program offers expedited education and training for adults without a high school diploma or G.E.D. College officials told Rogers that a growing number of laid off coal miners have applied for the program. Rogers commended the students for their perserverance. Rogers tours visits Accelerated Opportunities classroom at the SKCTC Harlan Campus Rogers also joined Kentucky National Guard Adj. Gen. Edward Tonini for a tour of the new Appalachian ChalleNGe Academy (ACA) in Grays Knob, KY with Executive Director Croley Forester. Rogers visited with the cadets and encouraged them to study hard and maintain self-discipline. More than 60 young men and women ages 16-18 are currently enrolled at the academy. Rogers, Forester, Adj. Gen. Tonini with ACA Staff and Cadets Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ##### Click here to view photos of the regional tour
10.26.2012	Rogers Visits Big Sandy and Cumberland Valley Areas Oct. 29-Nov. 1 SOMERSET, KY - U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) invites the public to join him at several events across southern and eastern Kentucky next week as he meets with community members in the Big Sandy and Cumberland Valley regions. Monday, October 29, 2012: 1:00 p.m.: Congressman Rogers joins Operation UNITE in Johnson County for a drug-free education rally with Remix Education and Americorps at Highland Elementary School, located at 649 U.S. Hwy. 23 in Staffordsville, KY. 6:00 p.m.: Operation UNITE is hosting a Bluegrass Policy Forum on Substance Abuse, moderated by K.E.T.'s Renee Shaw, in the Stumbo-Wilkinson Convention Center at Jenny Wiley State Resort Park. Panelists include U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers, Governor Steve Beshear, Kentucky Senator Majority Floor Leader Robert Stivers, Kentucky Senator Brandon Smith, Kentucky House Speaker Greg Stumbo, and Kentucky House Majority Floor Leader Rocky Adkins. The state resort park is located at 75 Theatre Street in Prestonsburg, KY. Tuesday, October 30, 2012: 10:30 a.m.: Rogers will join the Jenny Wiley Drama Association and the Pikeville City Commission to break ground on a new indoor theatre in downtown Pikeville, intersecting Hambley Boulevard, Division Street and 2nd Street. The outdoor amphlitheatre will continue operations in the Jenny Wiley State Resort Park, while the new indoor theatre will offer threatre productions year-round. 12:00 p.m.: Rogers will present a Legislative Update at a Martin County Community Luncheon at Miss Ida's Tea Room, located at 1432 Main Street in Inez, KY. 3:00 p.m.: Rogers will meet with underground coal miners at the Booth Energy Matrix Mine in Martin County. Wednesday, October 31, 2012: 10:30 a.m.: Rogers joins Operation UNITE to present a Med Return Box to the Somerset Police Department's Satellite Office at the Somerset Mall, located at 4150 S. Hwy. 27 in Somerset, KY. Individuals with unwanted or out-of-date prescriptions can dispose of those medications in a safe location where they will remain under lock-and-key until they will be destroyed by the UNITE "Pill Dragon." 2:00 p.m.: Kentucky Farm Bureau will present Congressman Rogers with a "Friend of Farm Bureau" award. The presentation will take place at Haney's Appledale Farm located at 8350 West Highway 80 in Nancy, KY. Thursday, November 1, 2012: 11:00 a.m.: Rogers will tour the Middlesboro Coca-Cola Bottling Company located at 1324 Cumberland Avenue in Middlesboro, KY. 12:30 p.m.: Rogers will present a Legislative Update at the Pine Mountain State Resort Lodge in the Ray Harm Room, located at 1050 State Park Road in Pineville, KY. 2:00 p.m.: Rogers will visit the Southeast Community and Technical College Harlan Campus to meet with students who are participating in the Accelerated Opportunities Program. The Harlan Campus is located at 164 Ball Park Road in Harlan, KY. 3:00 p.m.: Rogers with join Kentucky National Guard Maj. Gen. Edward Tonini for a tour of the Appalachian ChalleNGe Academy located at 465 Grays Drive in Grays Knob, KY. ####
10.22.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 22, 2012 Contact: Danielle Smoot (606) 679-8346 Rogers Shares Legislative Update and Presents Awards During Regional Meetings SOMERSET, KY - Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) shared a legislative update during several meetings across the region last week, presented awards to community leaders and celebrated progress in several counties. On Monday, October 15th, Rogers joined Operation UNITE, the Kentucky National Guard and State Senator Robert Stivers to help destroy the Pill Dragon's one millionth pill. The mobile incinerator is used to burn unwanted or out-of-date prescription drugs as part of UNITE's "Clean Your Medicine Cabinet Out" program. The Partnership at DrugFree.org reports the majority of teenagers across the country admit they first abused prescription drugs found in a parent's or friend's medicine cabinet. Rogers also helped present a "Med Return Box" to Owsley County Sheriff Kelly Shouse so community members can drop off unwanted medications 24 hours a day, where they will remain under lock-and-key until the next visit from the Pill Dragon. Rogers joins Operation UNITE and local law enforcement to celebrate the Pill Dragon's one millionth pill “Owsley County was a part of history for our region's war on drugs. You and I can easily become 'accidental dealers' if we don't clean out our medicine cabinets and keep unused painkillers out of reach for potential abuse,” said Rogers. "Our entire region should celebrate this milestone, because it is a testament to how we can individually make a difference by doing our part to curb drug abuse." During the event, Rogers presented Kentucky National Guard Lt. Col. Bryan Howay with a "Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award" for his leadership at the Kentucky Joint Readiness Center in London, Kentucky and the Guard's long-standing partnership with Operation UNITE in the war on drugs. Lt. Col. Bryan Howay receives a "Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award" Throughout the week, Rogers shared a legislative update with the Rockcastle Chamber of Commerce, the McCreary County Chamber of Commerce and the London-Laurel County Chamber of Commerce to explain how decisions on Capitol Hill could affect Americans the new year. With the country's debt totaling $16 trillion, combined with the looming potential for sequestration, large tax increases and the expiration of tax cuts for small businesses, Rogers warned that the government faces a fiscal cliff. Rogers speaks to the Rockcastle County Chamber of Commerce "The only way to overcome the debt is to grow the economy," said Rogers. "All sides must come to the table and work towards a real solution that spends less, taxes less and grows the economy." Rogers speaks to McCreary County Chamber of Commerce Following the McCreary County Chamber of Commerce meeting on Wednesday, October 17th, Rogers toured the historic Stearns Coal and Lumber Company building that suffered severe fire damage earlier this year. He pledged his support in rehabilitating the community's historic building. Nearby, Rogers also examined the restoration progress of a steam powered locomotive that will soon return to the Big South Fork Scenic Railway. He commended community leaders for their tenacity and perseverance to support the project until completed. Rogers examines recent fire damage at a historic building in Stearns Locomotive restoration progress in Stearns Rogers speaks to the London-Laurel County Chamber of Commerce During the London-Laurel County Chamber of Commerce meeting on Thursday, October 18th, Rogers presented State Senator Tom Jensen with a "Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award" for his long-time leadership in state government and his steadfast fight in the war on drugs. Sen. Jensen has served the 21st Senate District including Estill, Jackson, Laurel, Menifee and Powell Counties since 2004. Jensen is leaving his Senate seat to seek judgeship of the 27th Circuit Court. Sen. Tom Jensen Receives "Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award" After the Chamber meeting, Rogers joined Laurel County leaders for the dedication of the James L. Rose Building on Main Street in London, which houses several local businesses. The honor is a result of the late "Jim" Rose's innovative leadership in business and passion for education. Ribbon-cutting for the James L. Rose Building in downtown London On Friday, Rogers wrapped up the week with two special occasions on the campus of Union College in Barbourville, Kentucky. Rogers recently submitted a tribute in the Congressional Record in honor of Kenneth Ramsey, a Trustee of the institution. Ramsey and his wife Sarah have celebrated historic success in Kentucky thoroughbred racing, but never forgot their roots in Knox County. The Ramseys have donated their time and resources to promote progress at Union College and southern Kentucky. Rogers presented Mr. Ramsey with a framed copy of the Congressional Tribute. Rogers presents Kenneth Ramsey with a Congressional Tribute Rogers also joined Union College to celebrate the renaming of its nursing school in honor of Trustee, Edna Jenkins Mann. As an alumnae of Union College, Mrs. Mann pledged to raise the funding needed to re-establish a nursing school at Union College. Rogers commended Mrs. Mann for her vision and courage of conviction to return to our region to contribute her leadership for the much-needed nursing program in southern Kentucky. Rogers commends Edna Jenkins Mann on her honor from Union College Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
10.04.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) welcomes Grayson Smith as his new Field Representative for Eastern Kentucky. Smith will serve the Big Sandy Area Development District, FIVCO Area Development District and Gateway Area Development District counties in the Fifth Congressional District including Bath, Rowan, Lawrence, Morgan, Menifee, Johnson, Magoffin, Martin, Floyd and Pike Counties. “Grayson was born and raised in Salyersville and knows first-hand, many of the issues and concerns of the people of our region,” said Rogers. “He is already well-known in the region, because of his volunteer efforts and passion for helping others. He has been very active in the tornado recovery efforts in Magoffin County since the deadly storm outbreak in March. Grayson has also worked in state government, which will be beneficial to the people and businesses he serves in this new role.” Smith brings a wealth of experience and education to the Rogers' team. He has a Masters Degree in Education from Union College, a Bachelors Degree in Middle School Education from the University of Kentucky, and is currently pursuing a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) at UPIKE. In addition to his work in the private sector, Smith served as an East Kentucky Field Representative for former Governor Ernie Fletcher and most recently served as an executive for the Kentucky Department of Agriculture. “I love the people of eastern Kentucky and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to serve my neighbors along-side the greatest U.S. Congressman of our time,” said Smith. "We all believe in better opportunities for our region and I'm eager to help fulfill the vision Congressman Rogers has been working on for the last 32 years; improving education, job creation and new industry recruitment, increasing access to healthcare, promoting tourism in our area, cleaning up our hillsides and streams, and fighting the drug epidemic. Together, we can continue to transform our hometowns." Smith joins Congressman Rogers' team of Field Representatives including Pat Wooton who serves the counties in the Kentucky River Area Development District; Danielle Smoot who serves the Cumberland Valley Area Development District; and District Director Chris Girdler who serves the Lake Cumberland Area Development District. Grayson is located in Rogers' Prestonsburg office. Grayson lives in Salyersville with his wife, Amanda and their two daughters, Presley Rayne and Bentley Storm. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
10.03.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) presented Whitley County High School junior Kori Sears with the Congressional Award Bronze Medal. The award recognizes Sears’ volunteer efforts to improve Whitley County and achievement of personal development goals. “Kori is setting the bar high for other students in southern and eastern Kentucky, by going beyond successful academics to dedicate her time to volunteer service and personal development," said Rogers. "Colleges and universities are looking for more than good grades today. They are searching for well-rounded students who are developing good character and putting community first. I commend Kori for her efforts and I hope students across the region are inspired to follow suit.” Photo Cutline: Rogers awards Kori Sears with the Congressional Award Bronze Medal. To earn the bronze medal, Kori completed 100 hours of voluntary public service, including helping children learn to read and use computers during an afternoon reading program. For personal development, she learned to draw and paint with acrylics. For physical fitness, she improved her tennis skills. For her expedition, Kori took an overnight trip of horseback riding in the Big South Fork National Park in Tennessee. Additionally, Kori graduated from the Rogers Scholars program this summer and served as a junior counselor at Camp UNITE last year. Her advisor for the program is Tania Sharp, a guidance counselor at Whitley County High School. Kori's work exemplifies the cornerstones of the Congressional Award: service to others, initiative and achievement. The Congressional Award is open to all young people ages 14-23 in America. To earn the Award, young people must set and achieve goals in the four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
09.26.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) visited the Oasis Care Center in Somerset, Kentucky on Tuesday, September 25, 2012 to get a first-hand look at local efforts to assist individuals who are working to overcome drug and alcohol addictions. Operation UNITE President, Karen Kelly joined Rogers for the visit. “When we launched Operation UNITE nine years ago to fight drug abuse, we quickly realized that we couldn't arrest our way out of the problem and that our people desperately needed access to treatment,” said Rogers. “I applaud the dedication and hard work of substance abuse treatment facilities across the region, like the Oasis Care Center. Thanks to them, addicts can find the help they need close to home.” The Oasis Care Center is a non-profit organization offering substance abuse treatment for women through a residential six to 12-month recovery program. Oasis is currently renovating it's free soup kitchen, as well as it's cafe, from which proceeds are directly applied to the treatment program. Additionally, the organization operates a thrift store and a food pantry. Operation UNITE contracts with eligible substance abuse treatment facilities across Kentucky and surrounding states to offer a one-time voucher for low-income individuals seeking treatment for an addiction. “At UNITE, our Treatment team answers more than one thousand phone calls every month from families and addicts who want to escape the captivity of drug abuse, but don't know where to start,” said Kelly. "The waiting lists for some facilities can be long and daunting to an addict who is finally ready for help, but thanks to our contracts with local facilities like Oasis, UNITE can often reserve beds and help expedite the process so treatment can begin as soon as possible." To date, Operation UNITE has helped more than 2,600 individuals across southern and eastern Kentucky enter a substance abuse treatment program. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #### Photo cutline: Congressman Rogers tours Oasis Care Center (left to right: Chris Girdler, Rogers' District Director; Michael Phelps, Oasis Care Center Executive Director; Karen Kelly, Operation UNITE President/CEO; David Bullock, Oasis Care Center President; Congressman Rogers)
09.24.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined The Partnership at Drugfree.org’s new national action campaign, The Medicine Abuse Project. The campaign has a goal to prevent half a million teens from abusing prescription drugs. While the issue of prescription drug abuse has devastated southern and eastern Kentucky for over a decade, medicine misuse and abuse among teenagers has emerged as a national issue, with one in six teens diverting prescription drugs for non-medical use. As part of The Medicine Abuse Project, Rogers encourages Kentuckians to sign the Pledge at MedicineAbuseProject.org, committing to get educated and do their part to control medicine abuse. “In my region, prescription drugs have taken their toll on an entire generation, particularly our young people,” said Rogers, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Prescription medicines and over-the-counter cough medications have become the most commonly abused drugs among 12 to 13 year olds. If all of us take the pledge to clean out medicine cabinets and secure our prescriptions, we will greatly reduce the unfortunate misuse of these drugs by young people. Our region can’t afford to let this cycle to continue.” “The majority of teens who abuse medicines get them from family and friends,” said Steve Pasierb, President and CEO of The Partnership for Drugfree.org. “We need to change that. With the support of partners like Congressman Rogers, physicians, parents and teens themselves will be more aware of the dangers of medicine abuse.” Rogers helped kick off The Medicine Abuse Project during its launch week of September 23-29, 2012. Several campaign activities will lead up to National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day on Saturday, September 29, where the Drug Enforcement Administration and state, local, and tribal law enforcement and community partners will collect unwanted medicines in locations across the country. To join the effort, find a takeback location near you and take the pledge to stop medicine abuse at MedicineAbuseProject.org. Rogers helped launch Operation UNITE in 2003 to battle the drug epidemic in southern and eastern Kentucky. The non-profit organization utilizes a three-pronged approach to rid the region of drugs through law enforcement, helping addicts afford substance abuse treatment, and raising awareness through education in the schools and every community. ####
09.21.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of the Stop the War on Coal Act, H.R. 3409, a legislative response to the Obama Administration’s anti-coal agenda that is shutting down American energy producers and costing thousands of jobs in Kentucky and across the nation. The U.S. House of Representatives passed this legislation on a bipartisan vote of 233-175. H.R. 3409 now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. “For the past three and a half years, this Administration has waged war on Appalachian coal with job-killing regulations and a permit moratorium – driving coal out of the marketplace and miners out of work,” said Rogers. “In this year alone, Kentucky has lost over 2,000 good-paying coal jobs and dozens of businesses are downsizing as a result. “Coal is not America’s energy problem, it is America’s energy solution – which is why this costly onslaught on Kentucky coal miners and American businesses has got to stop. The Stop the War on Coal Act will prevent Washington bureaucrats from issuing regulations that kill jobs and further set back our slow economic recovery. I am proud to stand in support of coal miners and coal communities today by sending a message to the President that his policies are wrong-headed not only for coal, but for our country.” Click the picture above to see Congressman Rogers speaking on the U.S. House of Representatives floor in support of American coal. Rogers has been a leading voice in Congress decrying EPA’s vast regulatory overreach, which has been killing jobs around the country but particularly in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Today’s legislation, H.R. 3409, is a package of five bills which aim to stop this assault on American coal. Included in the bill are three proposals, the Energy Tax Prevention Act, the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation (TRAIN) Act, and the Coal Residuals and Reuse and Management Act, which have all been separately passed in the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support. For a full summary on each of the five bills click here. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
09.20.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) participated in a Capitol Hill briefing focused on the role of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMP) in combating the illegal trafficking and abuse of prescription painkillers. Sponsored by The Pew Health Group, experts from the PDMP Center of Excellence at Brandeis University’s Heller School for Social Policy and Management presented highlights from a new white paper that examines the effectiveness of state PDMP’s and puts forward a set of best practices that all U.S. states and territories can use to improve their effectiveness. These results were shared at the September 20th press briefing in Washington, DC. Joining the briefing, Karen Kelly of Operation UNITE was on hand to share perspectives on the local fight against prescription drug abuse. “When prescription drug abuse took hold of my rural congressional district more than a decade ago, we were unprepared for the problem,” said Rogers. “However, our state-run prescription drug monitoring program, KASPER, has provided a vital resource for doctors to practice good medicine and for law enforcement to weed out bad actors. Now that almost every state has a PDMP, we need to maximize their efficiencies and link them together. I hope that these results shared today encourage every state and community to make prescription drug monitoring programs a priority." Photo Cutline: Congressman Rogers speaks on the role of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) in combating the illegal trafficking and abuse of prescription painkillers. Rogers has been a leader in Congress in combating the abuse of prescription drugs for more than a decade. In 2002, Rogers established a grant program in the U.S. Department of Justice to support states’ adoption of PDMPs. Since that time, the number of states with authorized PDMPs has tripled from 15 to 49. In addition, this summer, a landmark agreement was reached to facilitate the secure exchange of prescription data among state PDMPs. The report presented today, entitled, “Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs: An Assessment of the Evidence for Best Practices,” includes recommendations to make existing PDMPs more effective and facilitate higher rates of utilization. For example, the study identified several practices that have demonstrated effectiveness: - States that collected prescribing data for all controlled substances (e.g., anti-anxiety medication as well as painkillers) reported lower rates of doctor-shopping (visiting multiple doctors to obtain prescriptions) than other states. - The rates of fatal painkiller overdoses grew more slowly in three states using state-issued prescription forms with uniquely configured page numbers, a practice designed to curb fraud. - Proactively sending alerts about possible abuse to physicians and pharmacists was associated with decreased prescription sales and lower rates of doctor-shopping. - Analyzing trend data helped law enforcement agencies identify “pill mills” that were illicitly distributing prescription painkillers. - Boosting doctors’ participation in and utilization of prescription drug monitoring programs was associated with reduced fatal prescription painkiller overdoses. The Pew Health Group, a division of The Pew Charitable Trusts, provided funding for the research. The Pew Health Group conducts research to form pragmatic policies that prevent unnecessary health risks. It is part of The Pew Charitable Trusts, a nonprofit organization that applies a rigorous, analytical approach to improve public policy, inform the public and stimulate civic life. More information is available at www.PewHealth.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
09.13.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) was honored by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) as a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 112th Congress. “Over my years of public service, I have always stood with Kentucky small businesses and worked to encourage and support local innovators to take risks and follow their dreams so that we can create tomorrow’s jobs and build up our nation,” said Rogers. “It is an honor to receive this award and stand with NFIB, one of our nation’s leading small business associations, in helping protect and grow American small businesses.” “The record shows that Rep. Rogers is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB Pro-growth agenda for small business.” NFIB will present Guardian awards to 245 Representatives who voted favorable on key small business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 112th Congress. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
09.11.2012	Today, Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement on the eleventh Anniversary of the September 11th, 2011 terrorist attacks: “On the eleventh Anniversary of September 11th, we remember those proud Americans we lost – men and women simply going to work to make America great, on their way to visit loved ones, or rushing to the aid of others. Our hearts are with the thousands of families who often relive those painful moments and with the brave men and women of our U.S. Armed Forces, security personnel, and law enforcement community at their stations around the world to prevent such an attack from ever happening again. We will never forget the nearly 3000 victims who lost their lives as a result of these cowardly terrorist attacks. “As we come together as Americans, we also remember the strength and unity of our nation that was so prevalent following this day. Our country rose up in the midst of disaster, steeled our spirits, and has withstood this test of our resolve. I encourage you today to take pride in America and to remember that we are fortunate to live in this blessed country.” Photo Cutline: Congressman Rogers honors the victims of 9/11 at the Congressional 9/11 Remembrance Ceremony on the U.S. Capitol steps. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.23.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) commends Leslie County High School Principal, Kevin Gay, for his selection as a Champion of Change by the U.S. Department of Education and the White House for leadership in his community. Principal Gay, his faculty and staff have consistently shown their dedication to the students of Leslie County, demonstrated by dramatic, positive changes in a persistently low performing region and vast improvements in student outcomes. On Tuesday, August 21, 2012, Principal Gay was honored at the White House School Turnaround Champions of Change event where he was joined by 11 other educators from across the nation who have made a positive impact in their communities. “Principal Kevin Gay has exemplified what it means to be a true leader in the education system,” said Rogers. “Whether recognizing student academics during athletic events, participating in weekly radio programs to promote student achievement, or hanging banners of academic achievement in the gym, Principal Gay found ways to promote and encourage his students both inside and outside the classroom. His inspiration to students has resulted in higher test scores, greater achievement rates, and advanced college readiness for Leslie County high schoolers. Principal Gay’s notable distinction gives me great pride in our region and I am confident that his work will serve as a source of inspiration for nearby schools in southern and eastern Kentucky.” Photo Cutline: Principal Kevin Gay (right) pictured with Jason Snyder, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and School Turnaround (left). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.22.2012	Richie Mathes, a 2010 graduate of Corbin High School, served as a Henry Clay Intern in Congressman Hal Rogers’ office for a duration of seven weeks this summer. Richie will be a junior at Union College this fall where he majors in International Business and Political Science, in addition to serving as the Union College Student Government President. Richie is the son of Richard and Sandy Mathes. "Realizing the cynicism towards politics today, it was refreshing to see the genuine hard work and sincerity of the Chairman and his staff,” said Mathes. “The Chairman is a fine example of a gentleman statesman who leads by example instead of cheap rhetoric. His staff was equally impressive, and friendly. After serving as an intern, and graduating from his youth programs I truly consider myself one of Hal's Pals. I hope one day to have the same impact the Chairman has had, and will work hard following his example." Photo Cutline: Richie Mathes (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.21.2012	Jamie Pursifull, a 2009 graduate from Middlesboro High School, served as an intern in Congressman Hal Rogers' office for a duration of five weeks this summer. Jamie will be a senior at Georgetown College this fall and plans to attend graduate school after her undergraduate degrees are completed. "It was such a blessing to be able to work with my congressman in DC," said Pursifull. "I had the opportunity to learn about the inner workings of government first hand and it was truly an amazing experience. I will forever remember my time in DC." Photo Cutline: Jamie Pursifull (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.21.2012	Baylen Campbell, a 2010 graduate from Hazard High School, served as an intern in Congressman Hal Rogers' office for a duration of six weeks this summer. Baylen will be a junior at John Cabot University majoring in International Affairs and plans to go onto graduate school for international development/diplomacy. Baylen is the son of Laura and Steven Campbell. “Having the opportunity to intern for Congressman Rogers and working with his DC staff was an incredible experience,” said Campbell. “Working on the Hill allows you to join in on the fast-paced action of Washington politics. All in all, this was a truly exceptional way to spend the summer." Photo Cutline: Baylen Campbell (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.21.2012	Mackenzie Hatfield, a 2010 graduate from Pulaski County High School, served as an intern in Congressman Hal Rogers' office for a duration of five weeks this summer. Mackenzie will be a junior at Georgetown College this fall and plans to attend law school after her undergraduate degree is completed in Spanish and Political Science. Mackenzie is the daughter of Martin and Debbie Hatfield of Somerset, KY. "Working in Congressman Rogers' office this summer was definitely one of the best experiences that I have had thus far in my young adult life," said Hatfield. "Congressman Rogers is a wonderful role model, who has always given so much back to the community. Being given the opportunity to work so closely with him this summer has inspired me to continue my education, with the goal of helping everyone around me, just as I have seen him do." Photo Cutline: Mackenzie Hatfield (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.10.2012	Nicolas Wilson, a 2009 graduate from Whitley County High School, is serving as an intern in Congressman Hal Rogers' office for a duration of six weeks this summer. Wilson will be a senior at the University of Kentucky this fall and plans to enroll into law school in Fall 2014. Wilson is the son of Jim & Tammy Wilson and Donna Rowe. “I have had quite the learning experience working in the office of the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, and it makes me very proud to have one of the most powerful members of Congress serving our great district on Capitol Hill,” Wilson states. “Watching politics unfold is intriguing. Yet, above all else, I enjoy interacting with the constituents through phone calls, e-mails, and, certainly, in person when they travel from eastern Kentucky to tour the Capitol building.” He adds, “It is an honor to intern under Congressman Rogers, especially after all the service he has done for the Tri-County area.” Photo Cutline: Nicolas Wilson (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.10.2012	Jessica Baker, a 2010 graduate from Knox Central High School, is serving as an intern in Congressman Hal Rogers' office for a duration of five weeks this summer. Jessica will be a junior at Lincoln Memorial University this fall and plans to attend law school after her undergraduate degree is completed. Jessica is the daughter of Paul and Susie Baker. "I’m so thankful for the opportunity that Congressman Rogers has given me, and I hope to take what I have learned back to my district and better my community," says Baker. "I’ve learned so much during my internship, and it has really been an honor to work for such a powerful Member of Congress. His dedication to his district, his country, and his constituents are three things that I will always carry with me." Photo Cutline: Jessica Baker (left) pictured with Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
08.01.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined his colleagues from the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to do more to combat the prescription drug epidemic. In particular, Rogers urged the FDA to act swiftly and decisively in responding to a recently submitted petition from a group of more than 30 clinicians, researchers and health officials, to change the way opioid narcotics may be prescribed. With the proper labels on prescription painkillers, physicians would be more aware of the safety concerns and effectiveness of certain opioids, before unnecessarily prescribing highly addictive narcotics to patients. “Twelve million people admitted to using prescription drugs non-medically in 2010, and nearly 29,000 lost their lives. With prescription drug abuse levels at an all time high, we must take every precautionary step to ensure these powerful painkillers are being used as intended,” said Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “If we could get the labels to reflect the potency of these drugs, doctors might think twice before prescribing an unnecessary addictive narcotic. Instead, we’ve got enough prescription painkillers being prescribed in our country to medicate every American adult around the clock for a month.” Earlier this week, Rogers joined six members of the Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus in sending a letter to the FDA, requesting an expedited review of the aforementioned petition on opioid label changes. In the letter to FDA Commission Dr. Margaret Hamburg, members expressed their concern about the growing medicine cabinet epidemic: “As you know, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that the quantity of painkillers sold to pharmacies, hospitals, and doctor’s offices was four times larger in 2010 than in 1999...As the sales of these drugs have increased, so too, have the number of deaths from prescription drugs and the rate of substance abuse treatment admissions.” Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus members, including Rogers and Reps. Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Nick Rahall (WV-3), William Keating (MA-10) and Robert Dold (IL-10), met with Dr. Hamburg earlier this month and advocated FDA changes recommended in a petition, which was submitted by more than 30 leading clinicians, researchers and health officials. The proposed changes to opioid analgesic labels include: · Striking the term “moderate” from the indication for non-cancer pain. · Adding a maximum daily dose, equivalent to 100 milligrams of morphine for non-cancer pain. · Adding a maximum duration of 90-days for continuous (daily) use for non-cancer pain. Prescription painkillers such as Oxycontin, Opana and Vicodin were originally intended to treat severe pain caused by cancer. But over the years – based in large part on marketing practices – many physicians, dentists and other health care providers began prescribing opioid painkillers for moderate-to-severe pain. The FDA-approved indication for nearly all instant-release opioid analgesics is “moderate to severe pain” and for extended-release opioids, the FDA-approved indication is “moderate to severe pain when a continuous, around-the clock analgesic is needed for an extended period of time.” These indications give the false assumption that opioid analgesics are a safe and effective treatment for chronic non-cancer pain, when in fact, an increasing body of medical literature suggests that long-term use of opioids may be neither safe nor effective. This year, more than 15,000 Americans are expected to die from overdoses and abuse of painkillers. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
07.27.2012	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) attended the 6th annual Camp UNITE on Friday, July 27th on the campus of the University of the Cumberlands in Williamsburg, Kentucky. Rogers spoke to the 230 middle school-aged students about dreaming big, making good choices, and pledging to live drug-free. "Unfortunately, our young people know all too well, the effects of drug abuse, because many of them have family members or friends who abuse painkillers or other drugs,” said Congressman Rogers. "Camp UNITE is an opportunity to help students realize how much more fun life is when you don't have to worry about going to jail or overdosing on drugs." Photo Cutline: Congressman Rogers speaks to 230 middle-schoolers at Camp UNITE Campers had the opportunity to sign drug-free pledges before leaving their last day of camp. In recognition of their decision to live drug-free, each student received a Camp UNITE medallion to remind them they are champions. "This is one of my favorite weeks every year. Its amazing to see the transformation in some of these kids during this camp," said Kelly. "They are the future of this region and we have to help this generation understand the vital importance of making good choices and breaking the cycle of addiction that many of them witness everyday at home." Rogers helped launch Operation UNITE in 2003 to battle the drug epidemic in southern and eastern Kentucky. The non-profit organization utilizes a three-pronged approach to rid the region of drugs through law enforcement, helping addicts afford substance abuse treatment, and raising awareness through education in the schools and every community. ####
07.19.2012	Today, during a Capitol Hill briefing sponsored by the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) prodded the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Margaret Hamburg to significantly beef up the FDA’s efforts to combat our country’s fastest growing drug threat. The briefing coincided with Rogers’ co-sponsorship of the STOPP (Stop the Tampering of Prescription Pills) Act, legislation to encourage drug companies to develop technologies that make opioid narcotics harder to abuse by crushing, snorting or injection. The bipartisan bill was introduced by Rx Caucus Members Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Bill Keating (MA-10). “Over 16,000 people lost their battle with addiction to these potent painkillers last year, while drug manufacturers raked in billions of dollars,” stated Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “While their products can make a world of difference for patients in dire need, drug companies absolutely must take seriously the need to develop tamper-proof pills and help stop the cycle of addiction. We need the FDA to do its part and Congress can fill in the gaps. The STOPP Act will empower FDA in approving tamper-resistant prescription pills and help thwart the alarmingly increasing rates of addiction.” In addition to discussing the importance of tamper-resistant formulations for opioid painkillers, Rogers expressed his staunch opposition to applications pending at the FDA which would allow drug-makers to produce a generic formulation of the powerful drug OxyContin, once Purdue Pharma’s patent expires in 2013. Purdue voluntarily removed the original OxyContin from the market in 2010 after being found criminally liable for deliberately misbranding the product; the company reissued with drug with a formulation that is more resistant to tampering. When considering whether to approve the generic applications, FDA must make a legal determination about whether the original formulation was removed for “reasons of health and safety.” The STOPP Act would therefore provide a legal pathway for FDA to reject the approval of generic drug companies’ application to market the original OxyContin formula. “Obvious issues with diversion and abuse could arise if this drug is available in a cheaper, generic form, and I’m afraid we’ll experience a new wave of overdose deaths” stated Rogers. “Aside from the human toll, this would be a tremendous setback to companies developing other tamper-resistant pain medications. If generic OxyContin is available on the market for a low price, there is little financial incentive for these companies to invest in the development of tamper-resistant drugs.” Finally, Rogers discussed the need for stricter requirements for prescriber education. In July, FDA finalized its much-anticipated “Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy” (REMS) for Extended Release, Long Acting (ER/LA) opioids. REMS compels drug companies to support the development by third-parties of training programs for prescribers that includes information on weighing the risks and benefits of opioid therapy, choosing patients appropriately, managing and monitoring patients, counseling patients on the safe use of these drugs, and how to recognize evidence of, and the potential for misuse or addiction. While this training will be available to the 320,000 prescribers of ER/LA painkillers by March 2013, doctors will not be required to participate by REMS. Rogers expressed his continued support for a mandatory prescriber education program and pressed Dr. Hamburg to ensure that physicians are well informed and can properly monitor their patients. Rogers is a co-sponsor of the Ryan Creedon Act, a mandatory prescriber education bill which would require healthcare professionals to learn about risks associated with controlled substances prior to DEA granting prescribing authorities As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
07.11.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of repealing the President’s health care law. The Repeal Obamacare Act (H.R. 6079) repeals the 2010 health care law, which requires individuals to maintain health coverage or pay a penalty. The House of Representatives passed the Repeal Obamacare Act by 244-185 and now H.R. 6079 awaits consideration by the Senate. "Repealing Obamacare is a crucial step in helping small businesses hire new workers, getting government out of the way of the doctor-patient relationship, and preventing one of the biggest tax hikes in American history,” said Rogers. “This terrible law threatens our economy, jeopardizes the quality of Medicare, and limits health care options for millions of Americans. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in passing this repeal legislation while working on solutions that actually reduce medical bills for Kentucky’s working families and create job growth in rural communities.” H.R. 6079, which Rogers cosponsored, completely repeals the 2010 health care law, paving the way for real health care solutions and private-sector job growth. The Supreme Court’s June 28th ruling leaves in place 21 tax increases, of which more than half target middle class Americans, costing taxpayers more than $675 billion over the next ten years. Several studies have shown that without repeal, taxes will continue to rise, and the cost for taxpayers will continue to grow unchecked, stunting economic growth for years to come. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. #### Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 40 seconds Mp3 verbatim: “This is Congressman Hal Rogers. Today, with my support, the House wisely passed and sent to the Senate, the Repeal Obamacare Act, which would prevent one of the biggest tax hikes in American history and get Washington out of the way for you and your doctor. This misguided law hurts our economy, increases our nation’s debt, cuts Medicare, and limits healthcare choices for millions of Americans. I am 100% opposed to this job-killing law, and will continue to fight for repealing Obamacare and passing common-sense legislation that actually reduce medical bills for Kentucky families.”
07.05.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced the launch of his new user-friendly website to help better serve the 5th Congressional District of Kentucky. The website includes various new tools that allow users to access Rogers’ voting record, track bills Rogers has sponsored and co-sponsored, follow Rogers’ latest news on his Twitter timeline, and learn more about his work serving as the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Whether you want to visit Washington, follow Rogers' work on Capitol Hill, or request assistance with a federal matter, the website is a great place to start. “The plan was to make the website more simple and accessible for the Fifth District so that my constituents can easily stay up to date on the latest news in Washington and Kentucky, have access to important legislative tools, and learn more about how my office can assist them with various issues and needs,” said Rogers. “I hope that this will serve as an important resource for the people of the Fifth District and I invite you to familiarize yourself with the new website.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ or follow Rogers on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers or on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. ####
06.27.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) opposed an amendment offered to the Fiscal Year 2013 Interior and EPA Appropriations Bill that could inflict more job-killing regulations on the coal industry and establish costly new standards. Specifically, the amendment would have removed a funding prohibition in the underlying bill that prevents the Office of Surface Mining from issuing a new Stream Protection Rule. The amendment was defeated 19 to 28 during Full Committee mark-up of this spending bill. Despite having been painstakingly rewritten in 2008, the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) has recently proposed to revamp the Stream Protection (or Stream Buffer Zone) Rule, including even stricter and more costly regulations for coal operators. If this rule proceeds as drafted, OSM could block as much as 43% of the country’s recoverable coal resources, potentially putting over 200,000 coal-related jobs at risk throughout Appalachia. While coal currently supplies 42% of the U.S. electricity supply, further regulations such as this new Stream Protection Rule would increase electric bills for working families and U.S. factories, as well as put more Kentucky mining jobs in jeopardy. The amendment was rejected by the Appropriations Committee, preventing the OSM from moving forward with this new job-killing regulation. Congressman Rogers has been a long supporter of coal mining families and coal communities and continues to be a strong voice in Congress for achieving American energy independence through the use of our nation’s natural resources. Click below to see Congressman Rogers speak in opposition to the Moran Amendment. Rogers’ Remarks in Opposition to the Moran Amendment Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.26.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) welcomed Operation UNITE Director Karen Kelly to brief the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse on developments from the April National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Orlando, FL. Rogers was joined by members of the caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, relevant executive agencies and private industry stakeholders, congressional staff, and interested citizens for the informative briefing. “While the abuse of prescription medications has recently been classified by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) as a national epidemic, this is a battle we’ve been fighting in southern and eastern Kentucky for more than a decade. Operation UNITE Director Karen Kelly is a hard-charging and dedicated Kentuckian, who has taken on drug abuse, personally and professionally, with steadfast resolve. I am honored to welcome her to the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse today to share with us some insights on the holistic strategy of UNITE and ‘wins’ from the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Orlando, which the UNITE team successfully led,” said Rogers. “There is no question that we still have a long way to go, but I am confident that solutions are within reach if we continue to bring like-minded and dedicated people to the same table – as we did in Orlando and as we’re doing today – and we will be able to make a difference in this battle against prescription drug abuse.” Photo Cutline: Congressman Rogers and Congressman Rahall present a tribute to Karen Kelly. In April 2012, UNITE hosted the first ever National Rx Drug Abuse Summit, which brought together federal leaders, Members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Abuse, representatives from noted national anti-drug organizations, law enforcement officials, and hundreds of dedicated individuals from around the country committed to ending the cycle of prescription drug abuse. Today, the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse gathered to recap the Rx Summit and discuss the path forward for federal policy-makers. The discussion focused on healthcare, advocacy and prevention, human resources, treatment and law enforcement strategies to reduce the abuse of prescription medications. At the conclusion of the caucus briefing, Rogers presented a tribute to Karen Kelly, honoring her for elevating this issue to the national level and for sharing best practices. To read the tribute, click here. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.21.2012	On June 20th, 2012, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) presented Don Combs of Pikeville with a prestigious Congressional Award Gold Medal. Don was honored for completing over 400 hours of voluntary public service work with the Boy Scouts of America and for reaching personal and physical goals that develop character, expertise, and fitness abilities. Don is the first ever recipient to have received this award in the Fifth Congressional District of Kentucky. Don is a graduate of Pikeville High School and is a senior at Transylvania University. “I’m thrilled to see young people taking initiative in their communities to lend a helping hand, advance their skill sets, strive for healthy living, and take on character-building projects,” said Rogers. “Earning the Congressional Award Gold Medal requires a significant amount of time, personal commitment and dedication; however the end results are well worth the challenge. I would like to congratulate Don on this accomplishment and would encourage other young men and women from southern and eastern Kentucky to consider this opportunity.” “The experience earning the Congressional Award was unique,” said Don Combs. “I completed most of goals through the Boy Scouts of America and the Congressional Award provided another incentive to continue my work within the program. In earning this award, I had the ability to set my own goals and achieve them my way. It gave me the freedom to learn and grow in new ways. I feel that the Congressional Award program is made to fit everyone, in each of his or her own ways. I am grateful and honored to have received the Gold Medal and look forward to promoting the Award further.” Photo Cutline: Don Combs is presented with the Congressional Award Gold Medal by Paxton Baker, Chairman of the Congressional Award Foundation (left), and Congressman Hal Rogers (right). The Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for young Americans, aged 14-23. The program is open to all Americans within the age requirements and is a non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive program. Participants can earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Medals. In order to earn the Congressional Award Gold Medal, participants must spend two years or more completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a four-night Expedition or Exploration. In order to register for the program or to learn more about the Congressional Award, visit the Congressional Award Website. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.14.2012	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) commends local military academy appointees from the Fifth Congressional District. Three young men from southern Kentucky with extraordinary academic and extracurricular achievements met the high standards required of military academies and received nominations from Congressman Rogers to be a part of the 2016 graduating classes. "If I could change one thing about my life, it would be that I had attended a military academy. There is no greater honor or preparation for life than our academies,” said Rogers. “I am so proud of these young men who are invigorated to be challenged physically and mentally by the best of the best. They received these appointments by their own high merits and it was a privilege to nominate each one and support their endeavors.” William Jones will be attending the Naval Academy. William is from Corbin and graduated from Corbin High School. William has spent the past year at the Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS) in Rhode Island in preparation for the Naval Academy. Benjamin Rice will be attending the Naval Academy. Benjamin is from Somerset and graduated from high school at Kentucky’s prestigious Gatton Academy of Math and Science in Bowling Green. Aaron Stolze will be attending the Air Force Academy. Aaron is also from Somerset and graduated from high school at Kentucky’s prestigious Gatton Academy of Math and Science in Bowling Green. His parents are both veterans of the U.S. Air Force. To learn more about service academy nominations, visit http://www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
06.13.2012	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) honored Resa Flynn today for dedicating nearly 32 years of service assisting the people of southern and eastern Kentucky with federal issues in his district office in Somerset, Kentucky. Flynn helped thousands of military veterans and active troops from across the region when troubles arose before retiring in April. "Resa has been my right hand on issues impacting our military veterans, assisting them with countless issues, from financial struggles and healthcare matters to replacing lost war medals,” said Rogers. "Thousands of veterans visited my Somerset office because they knew they had a friend in Resa Flynn. Her loyalty and compassion for people in need will be greatly missed.” Rogers presented Flynn with a framed copy of a Congressional Tribute that he submitted to the Congressional Record in honor of Flynn's tireless efforts to aid constituents in the Fifth Congressional District for more than three decades. ####
06.11.2012	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) promotes Chris Girdler as his new District Director. The announcement comes on the heels of the June 1st retirement of Bob Mitchell who led Rogers' district operations for more than three decades. Girdler worked along-side Mitchell as Deputy District Director for the last 18 months. "Five years ago, I invited Chris to join my team as a field representative, and since that time he has diligently worked with the people of southern and eastern Kentucky, and developed a passion to improve the region he calls home,” said Rogers. “It is with the upmost confidence that I asked him take the helm on projects in the FIfth Congressional District.” “No one has done more to transform southern and eastern Kentucky than Congressman Rogers’ and it is an honor to work along-side a true visionary for our region,” said Girdler. “Bob Mitchell paved the way, creating strong partnerships and friendships across the region, and I am humbled by the Congressman's trust and confidence in me to continue Mitchell's legacy as District Director.” Prior to Girdler's work in the Fifth Congressional District, he spent several years working as a business executive in the private sector. Girdler is also involved in countless community and civic activities. He currently serves on the Somerset-Pulaski Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and various advisory boards. Girdler was the recipient of the “2007 Young Professional of the Year” presented to him by the Somerset-Pulaski Chamber of Commerce and most recently was awarded the prestigious “2010 Young Alumni of the Year” by Eastern Kentucky University. In addition to his work in Rogers' Congressional office, Girdler is the 15th District State Senator-Elect for Adair, Casey, Pulaski and Russell Counties. Girdler, his wife Courtney and their daughter, Charleston are life-long residents of Somerset, Kentucky where they attend the First Baptist Church. ###
06.07.2012	On June 6, 2012, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the Fiscal Year 2013 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill. The bill strengthens America’s homeland security efforts by prioritizing front-line Coast Guard, Secret Service, and Border Patrol operations, while at the same time reducing government spending. The bill provides $39.1 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, a decrease of $484 million below last year’s level and a decrease of $393 million below the President’s request. “We face constant reminders that the war on terror is far from over. Our freedom isn’t free, and we cannot skimp on our national security if we want to stay vigilant and – most importantly – safe,” stated Rogers. “This legislation is proof that we can do more with less – a reduction in spending coupled with reforms to encourage efficiency and sustainability will help get us on a stronger fiscal path.” Click on the photo to see Congressman Rogers’s full statement: Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.07.2012	On June 6, 2012, Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) received the 2012 Adam Smith Award from the Friends of Adam Smith Foundation and the Business Industry Political Action Committee (BIPAC) . Former Governor Hayley Barbour and BIPAC President Greg Casey, presented Rogers with the Public Official Award for his outstanding leadership and commitment to preserving the spirit of free enterprise (pictured). Rogers was honored through a medallion ceremony and tribute video at the 2012 Adam Smith Awards Dinner at the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium in Washington, DC on Wednesday night. “Over my years of public service, I have always believed in the principles of the free enterprise; it is a true honor to receive the Adam Smith Award tonight,” said Rogers. “Our country is built upon his spirit of entrepreneurship, creativity, and the idea that one can work hard to be successful and get ahead in life. Unfortunately, over-spending, over-taxation, and over-regulation are hindering the American dream. We must restore the spirit of Adam Smith and continue to inspire and encourage innovators to take risks and follow their dreams so that we can create tomorrow’s jobs. I am grateful for organizations like BIPAC and the Friends of Adam Smith that are committed to making this vision possible.” Each year, the Adam Smith Award recognizes one business leader and one public official whose life work epitomizes a commitment to the concept and beliefs espoused by Adam Smith. This year, Rogers and Senior Vice-President of BIPAC, Bernadette Budde, were honored for their commitment and achievements in advancing the principles of free enterprise; specifically, limited government, free market, low taxes, respect for private property, and a stable economy. The Adam Smith Awards Dinner consisted of 500 attendees including Members of Congress, business executives of top corporations and community leaders. Also on hand were a number of Kentucky’s fine business leaders. Past Adam Smith Award recipients include Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), Gov. Haley Barbour (R-Miss.), Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Ben Nelson (D-Neb.), Larry Craig (R-Idaho), Reps. Cass Ballenger (R-N.C.), Anne Northup (R-Ky.), Charlie Stenholm (D-Texas). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.06.2012	Yesterday, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in opposition to an amendment that would eliminate funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) from the FY13 Energy & Water Appropriations Bill. ARC is a high-impact economic development federal/state partnership, targeting infrastructure, business development, education, and health needs of Appalachian communities. The amendment failed by a vote of 141-276.“For decades, Appalachia has experienced an economic lag – even during years of economic expansion, employment growth in this 13-state region was significantly lower than the nation as a whole,” stated Rogers.“ The Appalachian Regional Commission is uniquely qualified to administer these much-needed and targeted federal investments to close the economic gap between Appalachia and the rest of the nation, to bring the region’s 420 counties and 25 million people into the nation’s economic mainstream.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has maintained his strong support for proven, effective programs like ARC that create jobs and keep the economy moving. In the last five years, every dollar of ARC investment yielded ten dollars of private sector investment; as a result, 125,000 households were served by infrastructure investments, nearly 140,000 jobs were created or retained, and 100,000 students received vital job training skills. Studies indicate that if we do not sustain this vital investment in Appalachian communities over the next five years, the region stands to lose $9.3 billion in economic productivity and $3.7 billion in personal income. Click on the picture to hear Rogers speak on the amendment. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
06.05.2012	Today Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in opposition to an amendment that would eliminate funding for Fossil Energy research from the FY13 Energy & Water Appropriations Bill. The Fossil Energy program is a vital part of our nation’s “all of the above” energy plan that will help drive down gas prices and home energy costs. Further, passage of the amendment would prevent investment in new clean coal technologies which are critical to Kentucky’s economy and our nation’s energy security. The amendment failed by a vote of 138-249. “The Obama Administration hasn’t been shy about its desire to wipe out our nation’s use of fossil energy resources,” said Rogers. “The results will be spiking energy costs, greater reliance on foreign energy, and lost jobs.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has strongly advocated for such an “all of the above” energy strategy. He continues to push for thoughtful investments in emerging technologies that will allow our country to more efficiently utilize its abundant natural resources, including coal, natural gas and oil. Click on the picture to hear Rogers speak on the House floor. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit halrogers.house.gov ####
05.24.2012	Today Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) praised a landmark agreement to facilitate the safe and secure exchange of drug data among state-run prescription monitoring programs (PDMP). The National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP) has committed to comply with the PMIX (Prescription Monitoring Information Exchange) Architecture, a common set of technical standards facilitated by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). Based on broadly supported industry and government open standards, the PMIX Architecture provides the framework to make full data exchange possible while reducing the cost of sharing information. Adoption of the agreement will be voted on during the Association of States with Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs’ (ASPMP) National Meeting in Washington, D.C. Rogers will deliver the keynote address at the meeting on June 4, 2012. “The abuse of prescription pills is our country’s number one drug threat, with Rx overdoses now surpassing motor vehicle accidents as the leading cause of accidental death nationwide. Our medicine cabinets are more dangerous than our cars. The announcement today by NABP and the Justice Department ensures connectivity among all state prescription drug monitoring programs and is a huge step in the right direction. I’m incredibly pleased that we’ve overcome this hurdle at long last,” stated Rogers, a long-time proponent of interoperability among state-run PDMPs. “With nearly all 50 states supporting PDMPs, state-to-state data exchange is the obvious next step. I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues in the Congress and the White House, as well as stakeholders around the country, as we continue to wage this battle against prescription drug abuse. Today’s announcement is a win for the good guys.” Rogers has been a leader in Congress in combating the abuse of prescription drugs for more than a decade. In 2002, Rogers established a grant program in the U.S. Department of Justice to support states that plan for, establish or enhance existing PDMPs. Since that time, the number of states with authorized PDMPs has tripled from 15 to 48; however, a secure interstate exchange system has lagged. Today’s announcement and the adoption of the PMIX Architecture in June will significantly close that gap, and data exchanges will soon allow doctors, pharmacists, and investigators to sniff out the interstate doctor shopping that has fueled the pill pipeline in our country. Both the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy and the Department of Justice have developed separate hub solutions to achieve exchange. DOJ’s RxCheck hub has demonstrated successful prescription information exchange in a 2011 pilot between the Kentucky All Schedule Prescription Electronic Reporting (KASPER) system and the Ohio Automated Rx Reporting System (OARRS). In operation since August 2011, the NABP PMP InterConnect hub has already processed over 265,000 interstate requests for PDMP data. Nine states are already connected to and using PMP InterConnect and nearly a dozen others intend to sign on, to include KASPER and OARRS. In order to ensure hub-to-hub connectivity, Rogers introduced the ID MEDS Act (H.R. 4292) earlier this year to establish a nationally standardized system to share such information. The PMIX Architecture, developed by a broad base of public and private stakeholders, meets the requirements laid out in H.R. 4292, and today’s announcement paves the way for eventual nationwide state participation. While DOJ has given priority in making Hal Rogers PDMP grant awards to states committed to interstate data sharing for the past several years, NABP’s commitment to the PMIX Architecture will ensure that more states are able to utilize these grant funds to share information across state lines. In addition, the ID MEDS Act requires a report to analyze the feasibility of making PDMPs interoperable with other relevant technologies and databases, including electronic prescribing systems, DEA databases, electronic health records, and pre-payment fraud-detecting analytics technologies. These synergies will be critical to further integrate PDMPs into the workflow of prescribers, pharmacists and investigators. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Due in large part to his leadership on the issue, Rogers gave the keynote address at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on April 11, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving southern and eastern Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
05.24.2012	TOUR Southern and Eastern Kentucky (TOUR SEKY) hosted the Experience the BLOOM Awards May 23, 2012 at The Center for Rural Development. BLOOM stands for Business, Leadership, Opportunities, Organization and Motivation. These awards were created to honor those who have gone above and beyond to make the visitors experience outstanding. Nominations were made by tourism professionals across TOUR SEKY’s 47 county region. Ken Harvey was honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award. The Lifetime Achievement Award goes to an individual who has dedicated many years to the tourism industry. The recipient may currently work in the industry, volunteer, or may be retired. The Lifetime Achievement Award goes to someone whom has taught others about the tourism industry and has made an impact in their community. Ken served as the Executive Director of the London-Laurel County Tourist Commission for 25 years and is a long time member of the TOUR SEKY Board of Directors. "Ken Harvey is a world-class leader in tourism and I appreciate his expertise on the TOUR SEKY board for more than two decades, working tirelessly to protect and promote the natural treasures we have across the region," said Rogers. "Even though Ken transplanted to Laurel County for work, his passion for promoting the natural treasures in southern and eastern Kentucky has resulted in vast growth for the region that he made his home. I congratulate Ken on his retirement and wish him the very best in the years to follow." There are 12 different categories for the Bloom Awards. Each one represents an outstanding experience; restaurant, accommodation, visitor attraction, entertainment, sporting event, and CVB or tourism office. Awards were also presented to hospitality youth, hospitality personality, best downtown, lifetime achievement, man and woman of the year. For more information about the Experience the Bloom Awards please contact Maggie Bill at 606-677-6093 or mbill@tourseky.com. TOUR SEKY is an award winning initiative of Congressman Hal Rogers. The organization’s mission is to educate, expand, develop and market the existing and potential tourism industry throughout southern and eastern Kentucky, while contributing to the economic, cultural growth, health and awareness, and overall quality of life of the region. For additional information about TOUR SEKY visit www.tourseky.com, or call 606-677-6093. ###
05.15.2012	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) will join leaders from across the nation next week in Somerset, Kentucky for the 2012 Tennessee Valley Corridor (TVC) National Technology Summit, May 23-24, at The Center for Rural Development. Rogers will keynote the event focused on "Promoting America's Energy Security." "Southern and Eastern Kentucky, the heart of America's coalfields, is a prime location for the Tennessee Valley Corridor to highlight energy security this year," said Rogers. "The Summit will bring together leaders from across the nation to collaborate on energy issues, as well as workforce development and job creation in rural America." Rogers will be joined by some of his Congressional colleagues, as well as leaders in energy, education and economic development, including: Congressman Chuck Fleischmann (TN-03); Director of the Department of Energy's National Energy Technology Lab, Dr. Anthony Cugini; Kentucky's Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary, Dr. Len Peters; Oak Ridge National Laboratory Director, Dr. Thom Mason; Senior Vice President of the Tennessee Valley Authority, Anda Ray; the President of the University of Tennessee, Dr. Joe DiPietro; the President of Morehead State University, Dr. Wayne Andrews, and many more. Kentucky hosted the fall TVC Summit for the first time in November 2004 at The Center for Rural Development. Congressman Rogers and the former U.S Secretary of Homeland Security, Tom Ridge delivered the keynote address on "Technology: Linking Homeland Security and Hometown Prosperity." The registration deadline for the 2012 Summit is Thursday, May 17th. The public is invited to attend. For more information, visit www.tennvalleycorridor.org/summits/detail.html. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
05.07.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers' (KY-05) long-time District Director, Bob Mitchell announced his plans to retire on June 1, 2012. “Bob Mitchell is one of the greatest political advisors in the history of our Commonwealth,” said Rogers. “He has been by my side from the beginning, starting as a volunteer in my race for Kentucky's Lieutenant Governor seat in 1979 and my first Congressional race in 1980, following me through 32 years representing southern and eastern Kentucky, until today. Together, we have worked on every major project across the region from flood prevention projects to road projects and the formation of successful non-profit organizations like The Center for Rural Development, PRIDE, Operation UNITE, the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation, Forward in the Fifth and TOUR Southern and Eastern Kentucky (TOUR SEKY). I can say with the upmost confidence that Bob Mitchell is one of the greatest ambassadors of southern and eastern Kentucky, dedicating tireless efforts to projects that would most benefit the people of our rural region and our great Commonwealth. He has not only been one of my closest friends and confidants, but worked diligently to gain the trust and partnerships of thousands of families and community leaders across Kentucky. Regardless of his absence in the office, we will continue brainstorming ideas to transform this region that we both call home." Although Mitchell is retiring from his official congressional duties, he will continue to serve as Congressman Rogers' campaign manager. Bob and his wife Nancy, who is also retiring from her accounting business in Corbin, Kentucky plan to travel and enjoy their well-deserved time together. ### District Director, Bob Mitchell and Congressman Hal Rogers
05.07.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the winners of the 2012 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. The first place artwork, entitled “Entranced,” was drawn by Jeffery Couch, a junior at Knott Central High School. Jeffery utilized colored pencils to capture his younger sister reading one of her favorite books while seated under a tree near their home. His art teacher is Carolyn Slone Gibson. Jeffery is the son of Jeffery and Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. “Our region is known for incredible talents, from musicians to crafters and artists and the Congressional Art Competition is a great way to highlight the newest talent from the mountains of southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Jeffery's artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know that it came from eastern Kentucky.” The second place artwork, was an acrylic painting of flowers in a glass vase by Monica Withers, a sophomore at Monticello High School. Her art teacher is Tonya Marcum. Monica is the daughter of Tim Withers and Angela Denney of Monticello, Kentucky. The third place artwork, was entitled "A Dandelion Wish" by Rebecca Ann Trosper, a sophomore at North Laurel High School. Rebecca used black and white photography to capture the details of a dandelion. Her art teacher is Tony Johnson. She is the daughter of Tom and Mary Trosper of Annville, Kentucky. The winning artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. First place artists are invited to a Congressional Art Competition reception on June 20th in Washington, D.C. and will receive two complimentary airline tickets to attend. Jeffery Couch is also eligible for a college art scholarship as the first place district winner. The second and third place winners will receive a Congressional certificate of recognition for their award-winning artwork. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 29 years. To see the top three winning pieces of artwork and the artists from Southern and Eastern Kentucky, visit www.halrogers.house.gov/photos. Photo Cutline: Rogers with Jeffery Couch of Knott Central High School, 1st Place Winning Artwork "Entranced" 2nd Place Winning Artwork "Flowers in Glass Vase" by Monica Withers of Monticello High School 3rd Place Winning Artwork, "A Dandelion Wish" by Rebecca Ann Trosper fNorth Laurel High School Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
05.04.2012	On Thursday, May 3rd, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined Operation UNITE, The Partnership at Drugfree.org, the Kentucky Office of Drug Control Policy, and Outside the Wire in Manchester, Kentucky for the kick-off of The Dionysus Project, an innovative nation-wide public health initiative aimed at the drug abuse epidemic. More than 275 people filled Eastern Kentucky University's Robert Stiver's Building on the Manchester Campus to watch Hollywood celebrities like Jesse Eisenberg from The Social Network and Adam Driver from HBO's Girls, and Broadway stars like Kathleen Chalfant and Peter Frances James perform scenes from Euripides' Bacchae, an ancient Greek play about the destructive power of intoxication. "It shows that human nature has not changed in 2,500 years," said Rogers. "People are still enticed by intoxicants and lose their way in life, and that is a modern story. Thanks to UNITE, we have been diligent in our grassroots battle against the drug epidemic, but it's great to have celebrities from Hollywood and Broadway who can draw the attention of young people to the dangers of drug abuse, especially the prescription drugs that are available in our medicine cabinets." Following the presentation, Rogers joined panelists State Senator Robert Stivers (R-25), Melanda Adams of Clay Countians UNITED, and Debra Anderson from the Baptist Regional Medical Center for a town hall discussion about the impact of substance abuse and addiction in southern and eastern Kentucky. Several community members shared their stories of recovery and the desire to be more proactive in community anti-drug efforts. During the discussion, Rogers presented Senator Robert Stivers with an award of appreciation for championing Kentucky legislation on substance abuse this year. "Senator Stivers is a true champion in the war on drugs," said Rogers. "He revived key legislation to strengthen our laws against pill mills and to further limit the availability of the main ingredient in meth, pseudoephedrine." The celebrities also took The Dionysus Project to the Perry County Public Library in Hazard, Kentucky where nearly 200 people were in attendance. Click here to view photos from the Manchester presentation of the The Dionysus Project. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or join Rogers on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers or on Twitter: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers. ####
04.27.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of H.R. 4628, the Interest Rate Reduction Act, which prevents a scheduled 3.4% increase in interest rates on new federally subsidized student loans. H.R. 4628 extends the current 3.4% interest rate, which was scheduled to increase to 6.8% on July 1, 2012, for an additional year. The House of Representatives passed this measure 215 - 195 and H.R. 4628 now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. “As parents and students are working to line up college funding for next school year, this is welcome news,” said Rogers. “This legislation locks in lower interest rates on federal student loans through the Spring of 2013 and makes college loans more affordable in the long-term for students who receive these loans. During a time of economic uncertainty, we should be developing policies for students to expand their skills, receive quality higher education, and make our nation and our region more competitive without saddling tomorrow’s leaders with burdensome debt. H.R. 4628 helps accomplish just that. This is a common-sense plan and I am hopeful that the Senate will pass this measure and send it to the President to be signed into law.” To pay for the cost of the rate extension, the measure repeals unspent funding from Obamacare’s 2010 Prevention and Public Health Fund, and also contributes $6 billion in deficit reduction. Neglecting to extend the current interest rate would result in approximately 7.4 million undergraduate students with an additional $1,000 in higher interest rate costs over the life of an average loan. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or Rogers’ Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. To receive Twitter updates go to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers ####
04.26.2012	Last week, Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the launch of his new Twitter account to connect with citizens by sharing legislative information, providing updates, and receiving feedback from constituents and interested parties. Rogers’ Twitter account will provide followers with instant communication and web-links to the happenings of southern and eastern Kentucky and Washington D.C. These efforts are designed to help Kentuckians and all Americans stay up-to-date and well informed on the workings of Congress and Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. “A couple of years ago, I joined the world of Facebook and started putting videos on YouTube. Now, I am happy to announce the launch of my new Twitter account,” stated Rogers. “Through social media, Americans can more readily keep up with my efforts to improve southern and eastern Kentucky, create jobs and opportunities in our region, hold federal agencies accountable, and be the first to read up on upcoming events, legislative information, and spotlights on local organizations and residents.” To follow Rogers on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter or through his monthly e-newsletter, follow the links below. Click the logo to follow me on Twitter or log on to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers Click the logo to follow me on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CongressmanHalRogers With the help of Rogers’ YouTube channel, the Congressman is able to share video clips of congressional hearings, floor statements, and personal video messages. To follow Rogers’ YouTube channel click on the link below: Through free subscription to Rogers’ e-mail newsletter, subscribers are informed with once a month, in-depth updates from the Congressman. To subscribe to the e-newsletter click here: http://halrogers.house.gov/ Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or Rogers’ Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. To receive Twitter updates go to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers ####
04.25.2012	Last evening, on April 24, 2012, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) received the “Champion of Polio Eradication Award” from Rotary International. Rogers was joined by Congressman Denny Rehberg (MT), Congressman Tom Price (GA), Congressman Norm Dicks (WA), Congressman Steve Austria (OH), Senator Richard Shelby (AL) and Senator Lindsay Graham (SC) in accepting this award. “Rotary International and the Gates Foundation have shown tremendous, steadfast leadership in working to end polio,” stated Rogers. “I am honored to receive this award and stand with Rotary, one of our world’s premier civic volunteer groups, in fighting this dreadful disease and giving children everywhere a healthy future. We are very close to defeating polio once and for all.” Rotary International established the Polio Eradication Champion Award in 1995 to honor heads of state and others who have made a significant global contribution to ending polio. Since 1985, polio eradication has been a top priority for Rotary International and members have donated countless hours and over $1 billion to help immunize more than 2 billion children in 122 countries. While there is not cure for polio, a child can be protected against the disease for life for as little as 60 cents. Mass immunization campaigns have reduced the number of polio cases from 350,000 annually in the mid-1980s, to fewer than 700 cases in 2011. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or join Rogers on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers or on Twitter: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers. Photo Cutline: Rogers receives Champion of Polio Eradication Award. Pictured with Rogers is Jim Lacy, Chair of Rotary’s Polio Eradication Advocacy Task Force for the United States, and Rogers' wife Cynthia. ####
04.25.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) encourages southern and eastern Kentuckians to participate in the "National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day" on Saturday, April 28, 2012, hosted by the U.S. Department of Justice Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). On Saturday, several law enforcement agencies across the state will serve as collection locations between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. for individuals to dispose of old or unwanted medications. "Studies show that young people are getting their first high from prescription drugs in medicine cabinets at home or at a friend's home, so it is vital that we keep our medicine cabinets cleaned out and our prescriptions locked up,” stated Rogers. “In Kentucky, we're losing an average of 80 people a month to drug overdoses, that's more than we lose in car crashes. Our medicine cabinets are more dangerous than our cars. We can be proactive by making sure our own prescriptions don't fall into the wrong hands.” Last October during a similar event, Americans turned in 188.5 tons of prescription drugs at over 5,300 sites operated by the DEA and nearly 4,000 state and local law enforcement partners. In its three previous Take-Back events, DEA and its partners have collected nearly a million pounds of pills that could otherwise be diverted for abuse or misuse. DEA Approved Take-Back Locations in Southern and Eastern Kentucky include: * Kentucky State Police Posts in Harlan, Hazard, London, Morehead, and Pikeville * Kentucky Attorney General's Office in Prestonsburg * Lee County Sheriff's Department * Morehead Police Department at the Carl Perkins Community Center * Monticello Police Department * Mt. Vernon Police Department * Pineville Police Department Operation UNITE continuously offers the "Pill Dragon" to communities in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District to conduct "Clean Out Your Medicine Cabinet Day" events. So far, the "Pill Dragon" has destroyed more than 760,000 pills in our region, keeping them out of the hands of potential abusers. For more information call 1-866-678-6483 or visit operationunite.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or join Rogers on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers or on Twitter: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers. ####
04.19.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of the Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012, H.R. 9, which gives small businesses with fewer than 500 employees a 20% tax cut. This legislation will help foster economic growth by reducing the small business federal tax burden while allowing investors and entrepreneurs to retain capital, more aggressively reinvest income, and create more jobs. H.R. 9 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235-173 and now awaits consideration by the Senate. “I am pleased to join a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing needed legislation that will boost our economy, help spur job creation, and give small businesses a chance to grow. Small businesses in Kentucky are the backbone and blood of our communities and our local economy,” stated Rogers. “This tax-cutting legislation will help Kentucky companies retain dollars to invest in wage increases, order additional equipment and supplies or add new hires. I am hopeful the Senate will join us and pass this legislation so that we can start getting Kentucky and the rest of America back to work.” According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, small business owner confidence in the economy has risen 7% since January of this year, but hiring has remained at a standstill. In fact, in Kentucky alone, 40,849 small business jobs were lost from 2008 to 2009; overregulation and high taxes remain the chief concerns among small businesses owners. Currently, small businesses face federal tax rates as high as 35%, draining resources, capital, and time. Furthermore, small businesses spend three times more per employee on tax compliance than larger businesses, and under President Obama’s FY13 Budget Proposal, individual tax rates that apply to small businesses are scheduled to increase significantly. The Small Business Tax Cut Act seeks to remove these excessive tax burdens on small businesses by allowing business owners to deduct 20% of their income from taxes regardless of how they are organized. In order to avoid any forms of abuse, safeguards have been created that put a 50% limit on wage income for the 20% tax cut. A wide range of small businesses will benefit from this tax deduction, from businesses that are classified as organized corporations to those whose owners pay at their individual income tax rate. The non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that H.R. 9 will benefit over 22 million small businesses employers across the United States and save taxpayers almost $46 billion. This legislation has the support of 49 various groups and associations that can be found here. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or Rogers’ Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. To receive Twitter updates go to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers ####
04.18.2012	Today Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced an extended deadline for all high school students in the Fifth Congressional District to submit their artwork for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. Students now have until Wednesday, April 25th, 2012, to submit their artwork and compete for two free airline tickets to Washington, DC as well as a chance to display their artwork in the United States Capitol for one year. Thousands of high school students from across the nation participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. One winner from each Congressional District is chosen to have their artwork displayed at the Capitol for one year, where more than three million visitors pass through every year. "The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to display the talent in southern and eastern Kentucky on a national stage," said Rogers. "Our region of the country is known for incredible artistry and I enjoy seeing a piece of home hanging in the hallway of the Capitol, representing our small part of the nation." Last year, Emily Tackett submitted the winning artwork from Breathitt County High School. She submitted a charcoal drawing entitled "Brother Returns from War," a recreation of her grandmother's reunion with her brother during World War II. Emily and her family attended the annual Awards Ceremony in Washington, DC and viewed her artwork on display in the Capitol. Competition guidelines and information for the Fifth Congressional District are available at http://www.halrogers.house.gov. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at Congressional District Offices by April 25, 2012. The top three regional winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard District Offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual Awards Ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county. Prestonsburg District Office (Bath, Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Menifee, Owsley, Perry and Wolfe counties) 601 Main Street Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here for the Artwork Student Guidelines document Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. PHOTO CUTLINE: Congressman Rogers congratulated the 5th District 2011 Congressional Art Competition Winner, Emily Tackett of Jackson, KY ####
04.17.2012	Yesterday, U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) congratulated the University of Kentucky Wildcats men’s basketball team on winning the 2012 NCAA Men’s Division I Basketball Championship through official remarks entered into the Congressional Record. Rogers recognized and honored the team, Coach John Calipari, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto, and the entire Big Blue Nation. Rogers’ remarks recognized the team for their hard work and dedication throughout the season that led to a record-setting 38 wins and a Wildcat victory in the National Championship game over the University of Kansas. “It is an honor to rise to commend and congratulate the University of Kentucky Wildcats men’s basketball team on their terrific season and eighth national championship,” says Rogers. “This team achieved greatness against extraordinary competition, and will forever be regarded as one of the greatest all-around teams in college basketball history. Congratulations Wildcats on your championship win, and for continuing to uphold your legacy as ‘The Greatest Tradition in College Basketball.’” Click here to read Congressman Rogers’ Congressional Record statement on the Wildcats NCAA Men’s Division I Basketball Championship. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or Rogers’ Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. To receive Twitter updates go to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers ####
04.16.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced exactly three weeks remain for families affected by the severe storms, tornadoes and floods that ravaged southern and eastern Kentucky counties between February 29th and March 3rd to register with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster assistance. The FEMA registration deadline for this disaster (FEMA-4057-DR) is May 7th, 2012. “To date, almost $8.3 million has been approved for Individual Assistance, including housing assistance, short-term rental assistance, home repair costs and miscellaneous needs,” says Rogers. “I am pleased with the progress that has been made in the disaster recovery process, however, more work lies ahead. In order to ensure that Kentuckians are receiving a wide range of possible assistance, families must take the time to register with FEMA so that claims can be processed and the clean-up can continue. FEMA assistance is crucial to our region’s recovery, so I encourage every citizen to apply before the May 7th deadline.” FEMA disaster assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, replacement of essential household items and clothing, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Registration is also necessary in order to apply for SBA low interest disaster loans to pay for losses not covered by insurance. Disaster officials urge everyone who suffered damage or losses from the storms to register for assistance, including those who may have had insurance to cover some of their losses. Insurance may not cover all losses. The May 7th registration deadline is for residents of 21 designated counties. The counties eligible for Individual Assistance (IA) in the Commonwealth include: Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble and Wolfe. Public Assistance (PA) is also available to the following counties in the Commonwealth: Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble and Wolfe. There are three quick and simple methods to register with FEMA: By phone, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Assistance is available in many languages. Those who are deaf, hard of hearing or who have a speech disability may use TTY 800-462-7585. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service should call 800-621-3362. By computer, go online to www.DisasterAssistance.gov. By smartphone or tablet, use m.fema.gov. Additional information about this disaster (DR-1976-KY) is available at www.fema.gov and www.kyem.ky.gov. To date: • $17 million has been approved in federal assistance to Kentucky, from both FEMA and SBA. • 5,212 families in designated counties have registered for FEMA assistance. • 3,080 inspections of damaged properties have been conducted. • 3,248 visits were made to disaster recovery centers by affected people. • 157 U.S. Small Business Administration loans have been approved, totaling $8,695,300. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov or Rogers’ Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/#!/CongressmanHalRogers. To receive Twitter updates go to: https://twitter.com/#!/RepHalRogers ####
04.12.2012	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) calls on Congressional colleagues to join the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse during the closing session of the four-day National Rx Drug Abuse Summit hosted by the southern and eastern Kentucky non-profit anti-drug organization, Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida. Currently only 21 Members of Congress have voluntarily joined the caucus. "The CDC describes this as an epidemic and the White House Drug Czar calls this a top public health priority. As leaders in Congress, we need to lead the discussion on policy, education and solutions. The magnitude of the prescription drug epidemic should be on the minds of every member of Congress," said Rogers. "Every American is a stakeholder in the drug epidemic and its time to invest our energy and attention to solving the problem." Florida's Attorney General Pam Bondi moderated a "Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse" on Thursday morning to discuss federal policy in the works and to answer questions from the audience. Bondi said seven Floridians die from drug overdoses every day. "We're not going to give up on this," said Bondi. "It's about all of us working together." U.S. Rep. Mary Bono-Mack (CA-45) co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse with Congressman Rogers. Her passion for the issue was sparked by the loss of a family member to drug abuse. She agreed with Rogers' call to action noting, "in Congress, the squeaky wheel gets the grease." U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01) said "you have to be at the table, not just today, but constantly." Kingston said the state of Georgia is closely monitoring Florida after the "Sunshine State" cracked down on pill mills and implemented a prescription drug monitoring system. U.S. Rep. Nick Rahall (WV-03) attended the entire Summit, moderating and keynoting several sessions. "It's a nightmare that tests the bonds of family love," said Rahall who noted legislation is not going to change family situations alone, "but you can make it harder to find their drug of choice." All four Members of Congress answered questions from the audience and listened to suggestions from Summit attendees. For more information, visit www.nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. To view photos of the Summit visit the photo gallery at www.halrogers.house.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. #### PHOTO #1 CUTLINE: Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse PHOTO #2 CUTLINE: Congresswoman Mary Bono-Mack (CA-45) listens as Rogers Speaks during the Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse PHOTO CUTLINE #3: Rogers speaks during the Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse ####
04.12.2012	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) was joined by dozens of fellow southern and eastern Kentuckians at the inaugural National Rx Drug Abuse Summit hosted by the southern and eastern Kentucky non-profit anti-drug organization, Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida. Of the 750 people in attendance this week, about 100 were from Kentucky to either learn more about the epidemic or share their message on a national stage. "The overwhelming interest from around the country is staggering for this inaugural drug abuse summit, but I am most proud of the folks from southern and eastern Kentucky who are here to bring this great wealth of information back home to our region," said Rogers. "Folks from Somerset to Pikeville are in Florida to let people across the country know that we are in the fight and we're not afraid to lead the way." Melanda Adams, a Clay County resident bravely shared her story of recovery during a session called "Stories of Hope Across America," moderated by Congressman Nick Rahall of West Virginia. When talking about her parents' efforts to help her survive Melanda said, "they were as desperate to fix me, as I was to find a drug." She calls UNITE detectives her "Blue Angels" for giving her a chance for recovery. Jackie Steele, Commonwealth Attorney for Kentucky's 27th Judicial Circuit, also serves as a Board Member for UNITE. He moderated several sessions during the week and shared the importance of cracking down on pill mills and being an active community member. "It takes all of us getting involved and pulling our strengths together to tackle this epidemic," said Steele. Donovan Blackburn, Pikeville City Manager attended the Summit to learn more about the drug epidemic in other parts of the country and viable solutions that he can share back home in the mountains. "It has been an eye-opening experience to learn the sheer depth of the epidemic facing this nation. It isn't just an eastern Kentucky problem," said Blackburn. "Our communities need to be more involved and I plan to share some of the things I have learned when I get back to Pikeville." Law enforcement professsionals, treatment professionals and education professionals also made the trip from Kentucky to attend the summit, including medical professionals from Pikeville Medical Center, Manchester Memorial Hospital and Corbin's Baptist Regional Medical Center. For more information, visit www.nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. PHOTO #1 CUTLINE: Rogers Speaks at National Rx Drug Abuse Summit PHOTO #2 CUTLINE: Melanda Adams of Clay County shares her story of recovery as moderator, U.S. Congressman Nick Rahall of West Virginia listens PHOTO #3 CUTLINE: Jackie Steele moderates a law enforcement session at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit PHOTO #4 CUTLINE: Donovan Blackburn joined Congressman Rogers at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit #### NOTE TO MEDIA: Click on the photos to download for publication
04.10.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) kicked off the inaugural National Rx Drug Abuse Summit hosted by the southern and eastern Kentucky non-profit anti-drug organization, Operation UNITE in Orlando, Florida. Approximately 700 people are attending the Summit, which ends Thursday, April 12th. "We are here to join forces on an epidemic that quietly began in rural parts of Kentucky, West Virginia and Virginia one doctor's office at a time and now grips every corner of our great nation in prolific fashion," said Rogers. "When we leave Florida this week, we need everyone on board, echoing the same message we started with when UNITE launched in 2003: 'If you're thinking about using drugs, get educated; If you're already addicted, get help; If you're a drug dealer, get out.'" Following Rogers, leaders from across the nation spoke at the Summit, including Kentucky's Governor Steve Beshear; the Chairman and CEO of the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA), Major General Arthur Dean; the U.S. Surgeon General, Dr. Regina Benjamin; the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Gil Kerlikowske; and the Deputy Assistant Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration's Office of Diversion Control, Joseph Rannazzisi. On Wednesday, April 11th Rogers joins the President & CEO of The Partnership at Drugfree.org, Steve Pasierb for "A Conversation About the Realities of Rx Drug Abuse." Pasierb and Rogers will wrap up the conversation with questions from the audience. On Thursday, April 12th Rogers will participate in the conference finale, a "Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse." Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi will moderate the forum with presenters including Rogers' caucus colleagues, U.S. Rep. Mary Bono-Mack (CA-45), U.S. Rep. Nick Rahall (WV-03), and U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01). After the forum, caucus members will host a news conference. For more information, visit www.nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
04.06.2012	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joins the non-profit anti-drug organization, Operation UNITE and national leaders, including U.S. Surgeon General, Dr. Regina Benjamin and the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Gil Kerlikowske at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit in Orlando, Florida, April 10-12, 2012. “Last year, when federal law enforcment officers made arrests at a Florida clinic, 90-percent of the patients were Kentuckians stocking up on prescription pain killers,” stated Rogers. "The drug epidemic knows no state boundaries and no social boundaries. We are making headway in southern and eastern Kentucky, thanks to Operation UNITE and the organization's partnership with local, state and federal agencies. However, this Summit will spark nation-wide conversations and create opportunities for innovative solutions through education, law enforcement, treatment and research." Congressman Rogers will be the keynote speaker at a number of sessions during the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit. On Tuesday, April 10th Rogers will join ONDCP Director Gil Kerlikowske and Congressman Nick Rahall (WV-03) for a news conference about the prescription drug epidemic. On Wednesday, April 11th Rogers joins the President & CEO of The Partnership at Drugfree.org, Steve Pasierb for "A Conversation About the Realities of Rx Drug Abuse." Pasierb and Rogers will wrap up the conversation with questions from the audience. On Thursday, April 12th Rogers will participate in the conference finale, a "Forum of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse." Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi will moderate the forum with presenters including Rogers' caucus colleagues, U.S. Rep. Mary Bono-Mack (CA-45), U.S. Rep. Nick Rahall (WV-03), and U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01). After the forum, caucus members will host a news conference. "I commend Operation UNITE and President & CEO Karen Kelly for undertaking the enormous challenge to bring the successful efforts of this grassroots organization to the national stage, in hopes of making a difference beyond the mountains of southern and eastern Kentucky," said Rogers. "Drug overdose is now the nation's leading cause of accidental death and injury, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). It's time for leaders across this nation to step up the plate and declare victory over the prescription drug abuse epidemic." For more information, visit www.nationalrxdrugabusesummit.org. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.29.2012	U.S. Representatives Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) and Frank Wolf (VA-10), along with Senators Rob Portman (OH) and Sheldon Whitehouse (RI), today introduced bipartisan legislation to fight prescription drug abuse. The Interstate Drug Monitoring Efficiency and Data Sharing (ID MEDS) Act, H.R. 4292, creates an efficient, cost-effective system for states to share information from prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs). Forty-eight states have authorized PDMPs to facilitate the exchange of information among doctors, pharmacists and authorized law enforcement, but currently, there is no national standard for the exchange of such information across state lines. “While my region of Southern and Eastern Kentucky became ground zero for the abuse of prescription drugs a decade ago, it is now wreaking havoc on communities small and large and cutting across socioeconomic and gender lines. Prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) are one of the most efficient and cost-effective tools in our arsenal to cut back on this abuse, bridging the gap between legitimate medical need and potential misuse,” stated Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Now that 48 states have authorized PDMPs, it is high time we get these systems linked up to eliminate the interstate doctor shopping which has been fueling the pill pipeline around our country. The ID MEDS Act paves the way for secure prescription data exchange so that doctors and pharmacists around the country will be able to make informed decisions about prescribing these powerful drugs, and law enforcement can more easily root out corrupt drug dealers. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this important legislation.” State-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) help track vital prescription data so that doctors and pharmacists know when a prescription is being abused, and investigators can identify over-prescribing problems. In 2002, Rogers and Rep. Wolf established a grant program in the U.S. Department of Justice to support states that plan for, establish or enhance existing PDMPs. Since that time, the number of states with authorized PDMPs has tripled from 15 to 48; however, a secure interstate exchange of data among these PDMPs will be critical to reducing the interstate doctor shopping that has fueled the pill pipeline in our country. The ID MEDS Act would ensure secure and reliable interstate exchange of data from prescription drug monitoring programs by establishing a nationally standardized system to share such information. The creation of the system would result in the following: · Secure, standardized encryption of protected health information and personally identifiable information; · Protection of state technology investment by avoiding costly rework or having to develop an interface with several hubs in order to share with other states; and · Provision of an open-standard formatting methodology for sharing data. The legislation also requires a report to analyze the feasibility of making PDMPs interoperable with other relevant technologies and databases, including electronic prescribing systems, DEA databases, electronic health records, and pre-payment fraud-detecting analytics technologies. “With prescription drug abuse reaching epidemic proportions in the U.S, we need to work together to fight this problem, which is plaguing too many families and communities,” said Portman. “In Ohio there has been a drastic increase in the distribution of prescription drugs over recent years to the point where overdoses are now the leading cause of accidental death. Our bill would strengthen states’ ability to monitor and track prescription drug dispersion, which is a big step forward in the fight to prevent abuse.” “The improper use of pain relievers and other prescription drugs poses a serious and growing threat to our communities, particularly to teens who are too often unaware of the dangers of misuse and abuse,” said Whitehouse. “Prescription drug overdoses kill more people in Rhode Island every year than car accidents. By standardizing the way states share prescription data, this important legislation would help our health and law enforcement professionals to better identify patterns of distribution and abuse, and ultimately to save lives." As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Due in large part to his leadership on the issue, Rogers will give the keynote address at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on April 11, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
03.27.2012	Today Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s latest proposal on greenhouse gas emissions from new coal fired power plants: “I wish I could say I was shocked about this latest move by the EPA to regulate greenhouse gases – but I’m not. This EPA has not been shy about its utter disdain for the coal that powers our nation, keeps our electricity costs low and creates hundreds of thousands of jobs around the country. Today’s action continues a wrong-headed pattern of harassment by this Administration on coal miners and mining families and further puts in jeopardy the livelihoods of southern and eastern Kentuckians. If we are going to pull ourselves out of this economic mess and get our people back to work, coal has got to be part of the equation.” A member of the Congressional Coal Caucus, Rogers has been a leading voice in Congress opposing the EPA’s “strangulation by regulation” which continues to threaten mining jobs in southern and eastern Kentucky. On Friday, March 23, Congressman Rogers joined members of the Kentucky Coal Association (KCA) and representatives from FACES of Coal in Hazard, Kentucky to discuss the future of coal and the direct and indirect impact of lost coal jobs on Kentucky’s economy. The KCA estimates for every one miner in Kentucky, three other people depend on that miner for their livelihood. Officials with the Hazard-Perry County Chamber of Commerce said local businesses have suffered due to the coal industry’s recent decline in production. “Pink slips are flying all over the eastern Kentucky because the EPA will not issue individual permits for Appalachian mines and put our people to work, and fuel the nation’s need for energy,” said Rogers. “We are no different, and we deserve to be treated the same as the rest of the country. Our unemployed miners can’t afford furniture, vehicles or anything above the necessities, so our main street businesses and rural economies suffer as an indirect result. It is time that the EPA adhere to the federal courts that recently ruled the agency has overstepped its boundaries by holding up these permits." Congressman Rogers at the FACES of Coal News Conference at City Hall in Hazard, KY on March 23, 2012. Click here to view additional photos from the Faces of Coal News Conference. Rogers Joins Letter to White House Protesting Continued War on Coal. ICYMI: Chairman Rogers Grills EPA Administrator on Continued Coal Mining Permitting Delays. Click here to view a clip of the Congressman questioning EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson over coal permits. ####
03.27.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) pressed the Director of National Drug Control Policy, R. Gil Kerlikowske, to support vital federal programs which combat the scourge of prescription drug abuse, offer support and treatment to addicts, and help get drug dealers off of our streets. With drug abuse costing our economy $193 billion annually and taking over 80 lives per month in the Commonwealth of Kentucky alone, Rogers emphasized the importance of addressing the drug problem holistically by focusing on treatment, education, law enforcement and research. As Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Abuse, Rogers has been a leader on Capitol Hill in advocating for multi-pronged solutions to our country’s fastest growing drug epidemic – prescription drug abuse. He touted the work of Kentucky-based, Operation UNITE, which combats drug problems in a 29-county region. Director Kerlikowske met with Operation UNITE officials during a trip to Kentucky in February 2011. In addition, Rogers discussed the importance of state-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs), which help track vital prescription data so that doctors and pharmacists know when a prescription is being abused, and investigators can identify over-prescribing problems. Currently 48 states have authorized PDMPs; however, a secure interstate exchange of data among these PDMPs will be critical to reducing the interstate doctor shopping that has fueled the pill pipeline in our country. In 2002, Rogers worked to establish a grant program in the Department of Justice to support state-run PDMPs, and at today’s hearing, Rogers announced his plans to introduce legislation on Thursday in the U.S. House of Representatives which would help facilitate this information exchange between PDMPs. Click the picture to watch Congressman Rogers discuss prescription drug monitoring programs with the ONDCP Drug Czar. Click here to read Congressman Rogers’ opening statement at today’s Financial Services and General Government Budget hearing. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Due in large part to his leadership on the issue, Rogers will give the keynote address at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on April 11, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.23.2012	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) checked in on tornado recovery efforts across the 5th Congressional District, making stops in West Liberty and Salyersville on Friday. After toured damaged areas, Rogers met with local officials to discuss his efforts in Washington DC to find additional emergency funding options for the recovery process and his request to Federal Emergency Management Agency for a long-term commitment in the rebuilding process. "Now that the shock of the extreme damage has passed and large portions of debris have been moved aside, we face the tough and complex work of rebuilding," said Rogers. "We’re going to do everything we can to restore southern and eastern Kentucky. I believe that once the dust settles, this will be a success story for families and communities across our region." A total of 14 Kentucky counties are now eligible for Public Assistance, including Ballard, Grant, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Menifee, Morgan, Pendleton, Trimble, and Wolfe. Public Assistance is available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs and emergency work. A total of 21 counties in the Commonwealth are eligible for Individual Assistance, including, Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble and Wolfe counties. Individual Assistance is available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs. This week the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced that it is postponing certain federal tax deadlines for Kentuckians who live in, or have business in: Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Menifee, Montgomery, Morgan, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble or Wolfe counties. This special relief includes an extension of the April 17 deadline for filing 2011 federal individual income tax returns, making income tax payments and offering 2011 contributions to an individual retirement account. The extension is until May 31st, 2012. In addition, the IRS is waiving failure-to-deposit penalties for employment and excise tax deposits due on or after Feb. 29, and on or before March 15, as long as the deposits are made by March 15, 2012. Additional information regarding this tax relief may be found at www.irs.gov. Kentucky honors federal extensions related to disaster relief for filing of income tax returns, including payment of tax due. All storm victims should begin the registration process whether or not their home counties have been designated for federal assistance. These individuals should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-4057-DR. The deadline to apply is May 7th, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.22.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted to repeal a provision of the President’s controversial “ObamaCare” healthcare law that created an unelected advisory board to recommend potential cuts in Medicare service. The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) could limit choices for patients, particularly seniors, and doctors in addressing health needs and determining procedures. Besides this repeal, H.R. 5, the Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act, will also help rural areas retain and attract well-trained doctors, surgeons, and other health professionals through changes in medical malpractice lawsuits. The House of Representatives passed the bill 223-181, and the legislation now awaits consideration by the Senate. “Healthcare costs are spiraling out of control. Our priority must be reducing the costs of healthcare for all Kentuckians without limiting choices and reducing service,” said Rogers. “H.R. 5 removes the president’s unelected and unaccountable healthcare rationing board which stands in between a doctor and a patient. Further, H.R. 5 will put a cap on frivolous medical lawsuits that drive up healthcare costs for everyone and discourage doctors from practicing in rural, underserved areas.” With the threat of lawsuits that can force doctors out of practice and hospitals to curtail services, many providers are conducting unnecessary and costly precautionary tests that are not medically required. This practice of “defensive medicine” is driving up healthcare costs and hitting taxpayers’ wallets without improving the quality of healthcare. H.R. 5 would reduce this practice by putting a cap on emotional damages and attorney compensation arising from healthcare related claims. This would also ensure that legitimate claims are still given fair consideration. In addition, H.R. 5 repeals IPAB, an ObamaCare-created board of 15 bureaucrats. Under ObamaCare, IPAB is tasked with achieving savings by cutting funding for Medicare medical services. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.22.2012	Yesterday in a congressional hearing, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) pressed Secretary of Commerce, John Bryson, on maintaining and executing additional countervailing duties against China to ensure fair competition for American businesses and workers. American workers have been hampered by China’s deliberate efforts to undervalue its currency, subsidize Chinese industries, and create barriers for U.S. exports. Last year’s trade deficit with China was $272 billion, the second largest in history, and a 2011 Economic Policy Institute report indicates this explosive growth displaced 2.8 million U.S. jobs between 2001 and 2010 alone. Earlier this March, Congressman Rogers voted in favor of H.R. 4105, legislation, which would help protect U.S. businesses from the unfair international trade practices of countries like China and Vietnam. In yesterday’s hearing, Rogers stressed the responsibility of the Department of Commerce to ensure our country is focused on job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation, and remaining competitive on the economic global playing field. He encouraged Secretary Bryson to use every tool at his disposal to ensure that American businesses can remain competitive in the international marketplace. Click the picture to watch Congressman Rogers question Secretary Bryson on countervailing duties at yesterday's Commerce Hearing. Click here to read Congressman Rogers’ opening statement at the Commerce Hearing. Congressman Rogers has been committed to serving small businesses and boosting economic growth in Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. Through establishing organizations such as the Center for Rural Development and the Southern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED), Congressman Rogers has helped to provide leadership that stimulates innovative and sustainable economic development solutions and a better way of life in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.20.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that President Obama has extended the recent federal disaster declaration to include the counties of Ballard, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Pendleton, Trimble and Wolfe for Public Assistance. Public Assistance is available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for the repair and replacement of roads, bridges, utilities, schools, and similar public facilities. In addition, this week Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Mitigation specialists will be visiting Lowe’s Home Improvement stores in Kentucky, offering rebuilding advice and answering questions about the severe storms and tornadoes that hit Kentucky. “While my region is facing tough times, I am encouraged by the amount of volunteers and donations being poured out to those in need,” says Rogers. “For each of the communities that have banned together to lend a hand or donate needed goods and services, you are moving us one step forward towards recovery. With the extension of counties eligible for Public Assistance, and the help of FEMA specialists in the cleanup process, I am confident that Kentuckians will come out of this disaster stronger than they were before.” This week Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Mitigation specialists will be visiting local hardware stores in Kentucky, offering rebuilding advice and technical assistance. Representatives will answer questions about protecting homes from future disaster and offering other home improvement tips and techniques. Topics will include safe room construction, flood- and wind-resistant building methods, wind straps and other measures to make homes stronger and safer. Location addresses and hours of the FEMA Mitigation Team visits are as follows: Campbell County: Lowe’s Home Improvement 2369 Alexandria Pike Highland Heights, KY 41076 Wednesday, March 21 – Tuesday, March 27: 7 a.m. – 6 p.m. Johnson County: Lowe’s Home Improvement 527 Mayo Trail Paintsville, KY 41240 Wednesday, March 21 – Tuesday, March 27: 7 a.m. – 6 p.m. Laurel County: Lowe’s Home Improvement 136 Keavy Road London, KY 40744 Wednesday, March 21- Tuesday, March 27: 7 a.m. – 6 p.m. Menifee County: Brown Home Building Supplies 5376 US Highway 460 E Frenchburg, KY 40322 Wednesday, March 21 – Tuesday, March 27: 7:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday, March 24: 8 a.m. – 12 Noon; Closed Sunday Ohio County: Beaver Dam Building Supply 202 South Main Street Beaver Dam, KY 42320 Wednesday, March 21 – Tuesday, March 27: 7 a.m. – 5 p.m.; Closed Sunday A total of 14 Kentucky counties are now eligible for Public Assistance, including Ballard, Grant, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Menifee, Morgan, Pendleton, Trimble, and Wolfe. Public Assistance is available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs and emergency work. A total of 21 counties in the Commonwealth are eligible for Individual Assistance, including, Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble and Wolfe counties. Individual Assistance is available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs. All storm victims should begin the registration process whether or not their home counties have been designated for federal assistance. These individuals should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-4057-DR. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.16.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers released the following public information message urging eligible southern and eastern Kentuckians to seek and register for disaster assistance. Rogers has also established a Disaster Relief Page from his congressional website to provide Kentuckians with basic information on obtaining disaster assistance, avoiding fraud, volunteering, and storm-related questions. Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers encouraging Kentuckians to sign up for disaster relief aid. Runs 53 seconds: Mp3 verbatim: “This is Congressman Hal Rogers. As you know, almost every county in our region took a serious hit during this recent spate of tornadoes and severe storms. My heart goes out to those in our community who are reeling from the loss of a loved one, damaged home, or dealing with a storm-related injury. These are tough times, but we are an even tougher people when we work together. To speed recovery along, it is critical for affected families and businesses to register for federal assistance at a Disaster Recovery Center, calling 800-621-FEMA or online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Much work is ahead of us, but I am confident that we can rebound and rebuild even stronger.” A total of 21 counties in the Commonwealth are eligible for Individual Assistance, including, Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Grayson, Johnson, Kenton, Larue, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Ohio, Pendleton, Rowan, Russell, Trimble and Wolfe counties. Individual Assistance is available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs. Eligibility for Public Assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work) is still being evaluated at this time. Individuals and local businesses claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-4057-DR. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Kentucky’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.12.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers will be open in Menifee and Johnson counties effective immediately to help Kentuckians with property damage and other setbacks from the recent severe storms and tornados. The centers will be open from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m., seven days a week, until March 18 when the centers will be open Monday-Saturday only. “I am pleased to see FEMA taking the necessary steps to help families get back on their feet and begin the process of recovery,” says Rogers. “Staff at these centers will provide face-to-face support for applicants and assist them in putting their lives back together. We’ve got a long way to go, and while this process won’t be without its challenges, I believe we’re moving in the right direction. Thanks again to the countless volunteers, guardsmen, and first responders continuing to serve and support our communities during this difficult time.” Representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration, Kentucky State Unemployment Services and other agencies will be present at the centers to explain disaster assistance programs and help survivors apply for aid. The center for Johnson County is located at: Paintsville Recreation Center 232 Preston St. Paintsville, KY 41240 The center for Menifee County is located at: Menifee County Fire Station 1 44 McCausey Ridge Road Frenchburg, KY 40322 Survivors are encouraged to register for federal assistance prior to visiting. There are three ways to register with FEMA for help or information regarding disaster assistance: Call 800-621-FEMA (3362). Help is available in many languages. Disaster applicants who use TTY should call 800-462-7585. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service should call 800-621-3362. Lines are open 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. local time, every day. Register online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Register using a tablet or smartphone by visiting m.fema.gov. More disaster specific information can be found on the KYEM website. Congressman Rogers and Kentucky Emergency Management urge anyone who has storm damage, to their residence or other property, to document the damage by photographing or video recording it, if possible, maintain a list of any repairs and keep repair receipts. Report the damage and location to your county emergency manager. However, survivors must still register with FEMA to be considered for federal disaster assistance. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.12.2012	FEMA INSPECTORS ARE IN THE FIELD – WHAT TO EXPECT Survivor Information: Inspectors from the Federal Emergency Management Agency are currently contacting disaster applicants in Kentucky counties whose primary home sustained damage from the recent devastating tornadoes and storms. Federal assistance to individuals and households may include grants to help pay for rental housing, essential home repairs and other disaster-related expenses. Inspectors are private contractors who wear official FEMA identification badges. Authorized inspectors will only confirm personal detailed information that has been provided previously during the registration process. They will usually not approach an applicant without prior contact. The U.S. Small Business Administration and various insurance companies also have inspectors in the field. Here Is What To Expect: Inspector’s Call: After you register – either online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 800-621-3362 (TTY 800-462-7585) – a nine-digit application number is assigned. An inspector will call to schedule an appointment to visit your damaged property – generally no longer than 10 days after registration. Inspector’s Visit: Keep the scheduled appointment to make sure the assistance process moves quickly. Inspectors will review both structural and personal property damage and file a report, but they do not determine eligibility or estimate or determine the value of damage or losses. The inspection typically takes 15 to 45 minutes. You – or someone who is 18 or older and lived in the household prior to the disaster – must be present for the scheduled appointment. The inspector will ask for identification and proof of ownership and occupancy (for homeowners) and occupancy only (for renters). You can speed up the process by having the appropriate documents on hand: A photo ID to prove identity, such as driver’s license or passport. Proof of occupancy, which may include any one of the following: o A lease, rent payment receipt, utility bill or other document confirming the home was the primary residence at the time of the disaster. o An employee pay stub and similar documents addressed to the applicant and showing the address of the damaged home. o Proof of ownership, which may include any one of the following: o Deed showing applicant as the legal owner. o Title that lists applicant on actual escrow or title document for the purchase of the home; mortgage payment book that names the applicant along with the address of the damaged home. o Property insurance policy for the damaged home with applicant’s name listed as the insured. o Tax receipts or a property tax bill that lists the address of the damaged home and the applicant as the responsible party to the assessments. Property owners who need to replace a document to prove property ownership should visit their local tax office Property Valuation Administrator. Proof of ownership may avoid long delays in receiving eligible FEMA funds. After the Inspector’s Visit: You will receive a joint letter from FEMA and the commonwealth containing a decision within 10 days of the inspector’s visit. You may receive a low-interest disaster loan application in the packet from the U.S. Small Business Administration. You do not have to accept a loan. However, completing an SBA application opens the door to other possible forms of assistance. If you have any questions about what you receive, you can call the helpline number – 800-621-3362 (TTY 800-462-7585). If you are eligible for assistance, the letter will be followed by a check or an electronic funds transfer. The letter explains how the money can be used. You can get answers to questions about the progress of your application by: · Going online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov (anytime). · Calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 800-462-7585 (These toll-free telephone numbers are staffed daily 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., until further notice.) Help is available in many languages. · Using a smartphone or Web-enabled device to visit m.fema.gov. · Speaking with someone face to face at a disaster recovery center in your area. Kentucky Emergency Management encourages survivors to document storm damage to their property with photographs or videos, if possible, and to maintain a list of any repairs and keep repair receipts. Damage should be reported to their county emergency manager. However, survivors must still register with FEMA to be considered for federal disaster assistance. More disaster specific information can be found on the KYEM website at www.kyem.ky.gov. Volunteer Information: Those who would like to volunteer in this process can lend a hand at any of the Disaster Relief Centers below: Johnson County: O.S.C.A.R . Center Contact: Brenda Cockerham 606-793-0295 Paintsville Church of Christ Contact: Mark McKenzie 606-789-6219 Red Bush Fire Dept Contact: Chief Buell Webb 606-265-3269 Laurel County: East Bernstadt Contact: Judy Mickelson 606-260-1380 Martin County: Martin Co Court House Contact: Christy Brown 606-298-2088 or 606-626-5381 Magoffin County: Old Shop Rite Parking Lot Contact: Jaynee May, Mary Rowe 606-477-5635 Morgan County: East Valley Elementary Contact: Sharon Tharp 606-743-2887 Assembly of Faith Contact: Jason Venson 571-439-1889 Menifee County: Menifee Community Center Contact: Lola Thomas 859-229-6782 FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). If you have a speech disability or hearing loss and use a TTY, call 800-462-7585 directly; if you use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 800-621-3362. FEMA’s temporary housing assistance and grants for public transportation expenses, medical and dental expenses, and funeral and burial expenses do not require individuals to apply for an SBA loan. However, applicants who receive SBA loan applications must submit them to SBA loan officers to be eligible for assistance that covers personal property, vehicle repair or replacement, and moving and storage expenses. ###
03.09.2012	Tonight, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement following the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) additional designation of Magoffin and Wolfe counties for Individual Assistance (IA) in connection with President Obama's Major Emergency Disaster Declaration (FEMA-4057-DR) earlier this week. "Tonight, the residents of nine additional counties, including Magoffin and Wolfe are now eligible for FEMA Individual Assistance. The recovery process is trying, and the addition of these southern and eastern Kentucky counties is welcomed relief for storm survivors who are in desparate need for financial assistance," said Rogers. "Federal funds are critical for our storm-ravaged families to find temporary housing, begin home repairs, and meet basic needs. Nothing will replace lost loved ones, family heirlooms, and treasured pictures, but this is an important step and should shine a ray of hope on our region." A total of 16 Kentucky counties are now eligible for Individual Assistance, including Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Johnson, Kenton, Laurel, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Meniffee, Morgan, Montgomery, Pendleton, Rowan, and Wolfe counties. Individual Assistance is available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs. Eligibility for Public Assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work) is still being evaluated at this time. To register for FEMA assistance call (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-4057-DR. ####
03.09.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that President Obama has extended the recent federal disaster declaration to include individuals in Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Martin, Montgomery, and Rowan counties. This declaration will make available Individual Assistance to address damages and losses that occurred from the severe storms, hurricane force winds, multiple tornados and flooding beginning on February 29, 2012. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been authorized to provide appropriate assistance for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s severe storm emergency. “This is welcome news for many, but not all families in our region. I’ve been told damage assessments are continuing and we know this is only the beginning,” said Rogers. “Our families face enormous challenges with home repair, finding temporary housing, replacing vehicles, and getting life back to normal. These are trying times, but with the help of these disaster aid funds, we are taking a step in the right direction toward recovery. As I told FEMA Administrator Fugate this week, our people are strong, but this is more than our local efforts can overcome – we need a firm commitment and sustained help to get back on our feet.” Earlier this week, Rogers asked for a firm commitment from FEMA Admin Fugate, specifically noting the need for Federal assistance in his district, notably Magoffin County. In addition, Rogers, along with the Kentucky Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Beshear’s request for a disaster declaration. On March 6, 2012 the President issued a major disaster declaration for seven Kentucky counties for Individual Assistance (IA). Now there are 14 counties in total, Bath, Campbell, Carroll, Grant, Johnson, Kenton, Laurel, Lawrence, Martin, Menifee, Montgomery, Morgan, Pendleton, and Rowan. On March 9, 2012, the President extended this federal disaster declaration to 7 counties and now 14 counties are eligible for Individual Assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs). Eligibility for Public Assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work) is still being evaluated at this time. Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-4057-DR. ####
03.08.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers voted in favor of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, which will help small businesses and start-up companies more easily obtain invest funds. While small businesses make up 60% of all new jobs in this country, over the last three years, the U.S. has experienced a 23% decline in the number of small business startups. The JOBS Act is a bipartisan package of six bills that seeks to remove regulatory barriers in the financial sector in order to make it easier for start-ups, innovators, and small businesses to grow and go public. The House passed the measure 390-23, and the JOBS Act now awaits consideration by the Senate. “Our region is full of innovators and entrepreneurs with great ideas, at home businesses, and growing high-tech capabilities, but access to basic start-up funds often stands in the way of getting a concept or a business off the drawing board,” said Rogers. “The JOBS Act aims to remove anti-growth barriers that prevent Kentuckians from taking a risk on a new business or expanding to hire more workers. Investing in Kentucky small businesses, forward-leaning enterprises, and family farms is critical to growing our economy and getting folks back to work.” The JOBS Act seeks to restore economic confidence by ensuring that the United States remains a country of opportunity where businesses flourish without the risk of being stifled by costly regulations. This package contains various measures to help increase capital formation, spur the growth of startups, and pave the way for more small-scale businesses to create jobs. These measures include removing barriers for small businesses to go public, enabling entrepreneurs to pool investments from smaller investors, increasing the number of shareholders permitted to invest in a community bank, and removing a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulatory ban on using advertisements to solicit investors. Three key components of the JOBS Act were already approved by the House of Representatives in 2011 and supported by Congressman Rogers. Congressman Rogers has been committed to serving small businesses and boosting economic growth in Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. Through establishing organizations such as the Center for Rural Development and the Southern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED), Congressman Rogers has helped to provide leadership that stimulates innovative and sustainable economic development solutions and a better way of life in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.07.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) participated in two congressional hearings where he expressed continued concerns about the epidemic of prescription drug abuse and pushed for timely and effective legislative solutions. Before the House Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, Rogers discussed his perspective on this severe issue as well as the importance of additional congressional engagement in tackling this problem through legislation. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers also encouraged U.S. Army Secretary John McHugh to continue efforts which reduce addiction and abuse among our brave war fighters. “Prescription drug abuse is taking more lives in Kentucky than car crashes, and more lives around the country than heroin and cocaine combined. And tragically, our brave military men and women are coming back from war hooked on these pain pills,” stated Rogers, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “In my region of Southern and Eastern Kentucky, our people have taken a stand that enough is enough; it’s time for our federal government to follow suit. I was proud to first stand by my colleagues in calling for meaningful legislation to stem the rising tide of abuse and allow our communities once again to flourish, and then to get the assurances of my good friend Secretary McHugh that the Army is taking this epidemic seriously to protect our brave war fighters.” Click here to watch Congressman Rogers’ testimony before the House Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security [Start at 20:58 to hear Congressman Rogers Speak] Click here to read Congressman Rogers’ statement for the record Rogers and three other Members of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse testified before the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security at a hearing entitled The Prescription Drug Epidemic in America. While prescription drug abuse has presented a challenge in Southern and Eastern Kentucky for years, it is now our nation’s fastest growing drug threat. In 2010, 254 million prescriptions for opioids were filled in the U.S., which is enough painkillers to medicate every American adult around the clock for a month. Rogers encouraged his colleagues on the subcommittee to address a number of legislative proposals which have been put forth by members of the Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus, including forthcoming legislation to facilitate the secure exchange of prescription information among state-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP). For years, Rogers has been a strong advocate for the establishment of PDMPs in every state, which monitor the sale and purchases of controlled substances, bridging the gap between legitimate medical need and potential misuse. In recent months, he has pushed for technology solutions that will combat interstate doctor shopping and shut down the pill pipeline across state borders. Later in the day, Rogers engaged the Secretary of the Army John McHugh on prescription drug abuse by our war fighters. Studies indicate that 21% of soldiers involved in illegal drug use in 2011 were abusing prescription drugs, and tragically, between 2009 and 2011, 142 soldiers lost their lives to prescription drug abuse. Rogers has repeatedly encouraged the Department of Defense (DOD) to address this escalating crisis of addiction and abuse, and in February 2012, the DOD announced plans to expand existing drug testing programs to include the unauthorized use of the prescription drugs hydrocodone and benzodiazepines. In addition, Rogers authored language included in the FY12 Appropriations bill that will allow the Department of Veterans Affairs to participate in state-run prescription drug monitoring programs. President Obama signed this bill into law last December. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Due in large part to his leadership on the issue, Rogers will give the keynote address at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on April 11, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.07.2012	Today, during a House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) engaged FEMA Administrator, Craig Fugate, on the agency’s efforts alongside Kentucky Emergency Management before, during, and following a crippling set of tornadoes, high winds and storms that devastated the Commonwealth beginning February 29, 2012. Rogers received assurances that, pending additional damage reviews, more county designations would be forthcoming within days. Rogers also pressed and received from Fugate a firm federal commitment to each and every community devastated by these storms. Click here to view a video clip of Congressman Rogers addressing FEMA Administrator Fugate on receiving disaster relief for Kentucky. Scroll to 24:54 to hear Congressman Rogers' opening statement and the corresponding exchange with Administrator Fugate. Click here to view Congressman Rogers' opening statement at the FEMA hearing On March 6, 2012, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, releasing federal funds to help Kentucky communities recover from the severe storms, hurricane force winds, multiple tornados, and flooding beginning February 29, 2012. This initial designation was made available to seven Kentucky counties for Individual Assistance (IA). These funds enable homeowners to start rebuilding, pay for temporary lodging, and assist with basic needs. During the hearing, Administrator Fugate indicated that Public Assistance designations are likely, but IA was prioritized to help Kentucky families get back on their feet immediately. Public Assistance (PA) helps local government entities re-establish communities facilities, repair roads, rebuild schools, and restore basic infrastructure. “The devastation left in the wake of these storms is unspeakable, with homes leveled, businesses and community centers annihilated, and families displaced all over the countryside,” says Rogers. “I appreciate the President’s speedy disaster declaration and the federal help to our neighbors in getting back on their feet to recovery. I know that many challenges lie ahead as we move forward, but our people are resilient and this declaration removes obstacles to restoration. I send my prayers and deep thanks to the many volunteers, guardsmen, and first responders who have exhibited the character, the spirit and the will to rebuild our communities.” This immediate declaration offers Individual Assistance (IA) to impacted individuals in Johnson, Kenton, Laurel, Lawrence, Morgan, Menifee, and Pendleton counties. The counties being declared a federal disaster area and designated for Public Assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work) are still being determined as FEMA officials are still assessing damage and providing recommendations. Modification of this declaration is likely, and should be considered as a “round one” in available assistance, as damage assessments continue throughout the Commonwealth. On a related front, the Small Business Administration (SBA) announced low-interest disaster loans would be made available to assist in home and business rebuilding. During the recovery process, Rogers reminds storm survivors to take photographs to document damages. FEMA officials indicate photographs are beneficial when applying for all types of federal emergency aid. All storm victims should begin the registration process whether or not their home counties have been designated for federal assistance. These individuals should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is 4057-DR. ####
03.06.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in support of H.R. 4105, legislation which would help protect U.S. businesses from the unfair international trade practices of countries like China and Vietnam. Specifically, H.R. 4105 gives the U.S. Department of Commerce authority to continue imposing tariffs on imports from socialist, non-market economies (NME), which flood U.S. markets with cheap imports. In a bipartisan vote, the House passed this bill 370-39 and H.R. 4105 now awaits consideration by the Senate. “Small manufacturers and small businesses are the heartbeat of southern and eastern Kentucky. At a time of unprecedented economic turmoil, our trade policy needs to reflect this,” said Rogers. “Countervailing duties (CVD) rightly level the playing field for American workers. By maintaining these countervailing duties and strongly enforcing our trade laws, we can protecting vital companies in the Commonwealth and ensure fair competition for American businesses and workers.” H.R. 4105 would overturn a recent decision by the Federal Court of Appeals, GPX v. United States, that prevents countervailing duties (CVD) from being applied to new market economies (NME). Without legislative action, the Department of Commerce will be required by the Court of Appeals to terminate the existing CVD orders against products from China and Vietnam, which could result in the possible refund of already collected duties. Ending these trade remedies would seriously affect tens of thousands of American workers at over 80 different companies in 38 states, including 14 companies in Kentucky, by allowing countries like China to use illegal trade practices to flood our markets with cheap imports. This legislation has bipartisan, bicameral support and was developed with and is fully supported by the Administration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.06.2012	This week, Congressman Rogers joined a letter with other coal state Members of Congress to President Obama concerning this Administration’s dismissal of coal as a part of our nation’s energy strategy. The letter outlined the combined effect of EPA regulations which threaten to shutter coal-fueled power plants, close mines, and harm our economy, job creation, and our nation’s energy security. Four major EPA anti-coal regulations stand to cost Americans $21 billion per year between 2012 and 2020, trigger a net loss of approximately 183,000 jobs annually, and result in a loss of $270 per year in the average family’s income due to higher electric bills. In addition, EPA has brought the permitting process for Kentucky mining operations to a screeching halt through burdensome and legally questionable “guidance” that threatens the short- and long-term viability of Appalachian coal. “Southern and eastern Kentuckians are losing jobs and wages over these wrong-headed delays. Our country needs a pro-growth, pro-coal energy strategy. Instead, the President’s policies impose onerous, anti-coal and anti-job regulations that will shut down numerous coal plants, close coal mines, and put even more Americans out of work,” said Rogers. “We can’t afford this as a community and as a country. The President has indicated he supports an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy. If he is serious about developing every available source of American energy, then domestic development of coal, which has not only become cleaner in the past 40 years, but 90% more efficient, needs to be in the mix. Kentuckians rely on these jobs and Americans rely on coal’s resources- this is a battle we cannot afford to lose.” Click here to view the letter Congressman Rogers and Republican Colleagues sent to President Obama regarding coal as a part of our nation’s energy strategy. Last week, Rogers also questioned high-ranking U.S. officials to include EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Steven Chu about the Administration’s continuous rejection of coal. On February 28, he questioned Secretary Chu about DOE’s dismissal of much-needed research funding to enhance coal-based technologies, which will be vital for utilities to comply with the burdensome federal regulations. The next day, he challenged Administrator Jackson to explain continued delays in the permitting process in light of an October 2011 court decision in NMA vs. Jackson, which affirmed that permits must be issued in a timely manner and without impermissible interference from EPA. Despite this, the EPA has not approved a single individual permit application that it has received from mining operations in Chairman Rogers’ congressional district since 2009. Last week, Congressman Rogers grilled EPA Administrator, Lisa Jackson, on the continued coal mining permitting delays. Click here to watch a video of the Q & A. Click here to read the Congressman’s opening statement at last week’s hearing on the EPA’s FY13 Budget Proposal Click here to watch a clip of Congressman Rogers questioning Secretary Chu on coal research funding Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.06.2012	U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced this evening that President Obama issued a major disaster declaration (FEMA-4057-DR) for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, triggering the release of federal funds to help people recover from the severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding that occurred February 29 to March 3, 2012. The declaration comes only one day after Congressman Rogers led the Kentucky Congressional delegation to sign a letter in support of Governor Beshear's request to the President for an expedited federal emergency declaration in the wake of the deadly storms that swept across the state on Friday, March 2, 2012. This declaration paves the way for federal assistance to aid Kentuckians struggling with the loss of homes, debris removal, lost possessions and damaged structures. "This is a critical first step toward recovery," stated Rogers. "I appreciate FEMA and federal officials moving swiftly to approve individual assistance for Kentucky families, many of whom are facing complete loss. First responders, Red Cross volunteers, state emergency personnel, and Kentucky National Guardsmen have been steadfastly on the scene. This is the next wave of support to find temporary housing and basic needs for our people as we dig out and rebuild." This immediate declaration offers Individual Assistance (IA) to impacted individuals in Johnson, Kenton, Laurel, Lawrence, Morgan, Menifee, and Pendleton counties. Public Assistance (PA) has not yet been determined. Modification of this declaration is likely, as damage assessments continue throughout the Commonwealth.During the recovery process, Rogers reminds storm survivors to take photographs to document the damage on public and private property. FEMA officials say photographs are beneficial when applying for federal emergency aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.05.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) led the Kentucky Congressional delegation to sign a letter in support of Governor Beshear's request to the President for an immediate federal emergency declaration in the wake of the deadly storms that swept across the Commonwealth of Kentucky on Friday, March 2, 2012. "Our region has never suffered the level of catastrophic loss and damage in one single day, as we did last Friday. While the damage is widespread, so is the determination of our people to recover and succeed. We owe so much to the hundreds of first responders, local officials, Kentucky National Guardsmen, and volunteers working, without rest to lend a hand in our darkest hour," said Rogers. "I have been in touch with FEMA, the federal emergency management agency, and they are already on the ground to aid our people. I also signed a letter in support of Governor Beshear's request to the President for an immediate federal emergency declaration. Cynthia and I offer our deepest sympathy to those who lost loved ones. We also offer our prayers and thoughts for the injured and those who lost homes, businesses and community facilities. Together, we will rebuild and recover." During the recovery process, Rogers reminds storm survivors to take photographs to document the damage on public and private property. FEMA officials say photographs are beneficial when applying for federal emergency aid. FEMA officials suggest the best way to help, is through financial donations to disaster relief organizations, like the American Red Cross. For more information on how you can help, visit www.nvoad.org. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD AN MP3 VERSION OF THE STATEMENT CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE LETTER TO PRESIDENT OBAMA CLICK HERE TO SEE A PHOTO GALLERY OF TORNADO DAMAGE AND RECOVERY EFFORTS IN LAUREL COUNTY Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
03.01.2012	Congressman “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) invites all high school students in the Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. Thousands of high school students from across the nation participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. One winner from each Congressional District is chosen to have their artwork displayed at the Capitol for one year, where more than three million visitors pass through every year. "The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to display the talent in southern and eastern Kentucky on a national stage," said Rogers. "Our region of the country is known for incredible artistry and I enjoy seeing a piece of home hanging in the hallway of the Capitol, representing our small part of the nation." Last year, Emily Tackett submitted the winning artwork from Breathitt County High School. She submitted a charcoal drawing entitled "Brother Returns from War," a recreation of her grandmother's reunion with her brother during World War II. Emily and her family attended the annual Awards Ceremony in Washington, DC and viewed her artwork on display in the Capitol. Click here for competition guidelines and information. Artwork must be two-dimensional, and each framed piece must be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4”. All artwork is due at coordinating Congressional District Offices listed below by April 20, 2012. The top three regional winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard District Offices. The winning artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol and the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, DC for an annual Awards Ceremony. Winners may also be eligible to receive an artistic college scholarship. For more information, contact Chelsea Whalen in Rogers' Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601 or chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county. Prestonsburg District Office (Bath, Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Menifee, Owsley, Perry and Wolfe counties) 601 Main Street Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 Click here for the Artwork Student Guidelines document
03.01.2012	Earlier this week, Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers questioned Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Steven Chu about the Administration’s continued rejection of our country’s vast coal resources. In particular, Chairman Rogers focused on the need to tap domestic oil, coal and gas reserves to head off rising gas and electricity costs while our economy continues to struggle. He questioned Secretary Chu about DOE’s dismissal of much-needed research funding to enhance coal-based technologies, which will be vital for utilities to comply with burdensome federal regulations – regulations that could shut down many of our country’s power plants, sour economic growth, and raise electricity rates. Chairman Rogers has been a long supporter of coal mining and continues to be a voice in Congress for achieving American energy independence through the use of our nation’s natural resources. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. #### Click here to watch a clip of Chairman Rogers Questioning Secretary Chu on coal research funding Click here to read the Congressman’s opening statement at this week’s DOE hearing with Secretary Chu Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 1 min 1 second Mp3 verbatim: "This is Congressman Hal Rogers. This week, before my Appropriations Committee, I confronted the Secretaries of Energy, State, and the EPA on one vital issue. The Obama Administration’s refusal to allow the Canadian Oil pipeline and its blame for rising gas prices, and the continued war on coal by this Administration. Whether denying mining permits, cutting clean coal research, or outright rejecting the Keystone pipeline, this Administration is systematically driving up gas prices and your electric bill, and killing coal-related jobs through Eastern Kentucky. We need those jobs in Kentucky and I told Secretaries Chu, Clinton and EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson just that. Our country will need Appalachian coal for many decades in the future. But the Administration is trying to shut it down now. Some of us are fighting back."
02.29.2012	Today, on February 29, 2012, Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers questioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson over the Administration’s de facto moratorium on Appalachian coal mining permits. Rogers has been a leading voice in Congress decrying EPA’s vast regulatory overreach, which has been killing jobs around the country but particularly in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Today, he challenged the Administrator to explain continued delays in the permitting process in light of an October 2011 court decision in NMA vs. Jackson, which affirmed that permits must be issued in a timely manner and without impermissible interference from EPA. Despite this, the EPA has not approved a single individual permit application that it has received from mining operations in Chairman Rogers’ congressional district since 2009. Click here to view a clip of the Congressman questioning Administrator Jackson about the de facto permit moratorium. Click here to read the Congressman’s opening statement at today’s hearing on the EPA’s FY13 Budget Proposal Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
02.29.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-5) joined colleagues Bill Cassidy (LA-6) and Mike Ross (AR-4) in introducing the Online Pharmacy Safety Act (H.R. 4095). While much progress has been made to eliminate rogue Internet pharmacies since the enactment of the landmark Ryan Haight Act in 2008, H.R. 4095 takes additional steps to prevent illegal websites from selling dangerous drugs to unprescribed consumers by establishing a comprehensive “white list” of valid pharmacies. “Prescription drug abuse has been one of the greatest calamities in my region, ruining lives and affecting Kentuckians young and old,” said Rogers. “While we have come a long way since delivery trucks were being robbed on the highway for their pill cargo, more must be done. The Online Pharmacy Safety Act is another step in the right direction. Creating a registry of legitimate online pharmacies will provide consumers with certainty that they’re obtaining a valid prescription, but perhaps more importantly, this ‘white list’ will help internet payment companies distinguish between honest brokers and drug dealers. That way, we can hit these rogue online pharmacies where it hurts – in their wallets – and shut them down for good.” Specifically, H.R. 4095 requires FDA to develop a comprehensive “white list” of legitimate online pharmacies. This list will be available to consumers, but perhaps more importantly, to online payment processing companies. The legislation creates a “safe harbor” so that these financial middlemen cannot be penalized for refusing to process payments to rogue online pharmacies not registered on the “white list.” Other services, like search advertising and website hosting, would also be discouraged. H.R. 4095 was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce for further consideration. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Due in large part to his leadership on the issue, Rogers will give the keynote address at the National Rx Drug Abuse Summit on April 11, 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
02.28.2012	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers voiced his support for the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, unveiled by lead Republicans in the House of Representatives. Small businesses generate over 60% of new jobs in this country but such startups are at a 30-year low. The JOBS Act is a package of six bills that removes existing barriers, like red tape and overregulation, to help small businesses raise capital and create jobs. “Kentucky small businesses and family farms are the backbone of our economy, and our pathway to future growth runs through the ingenuity of these job creators,” says Rogers. “In these tough economic times, Americans are calling for the federal government to get out of the way and allow small businesses and emerging companies to rebound and thrive. The onslaught of government regulation, threat of increased taxes, and bureaucratic red-tape proposed by this Administration has created an enormous burden to job creation, enterprise, and innovation. The JOBS Act is a step in the right direction.” The JOBS Act seeks to restore economic confidence by ensuring that the United States remains a country of opportunity where businesses flourish without the risk of being stifled by costly regulations. This package contains various measures to help increase capital formation, spur the growth of startups, and pave the way for more small-scale businesses to create jobs. These measures include removing barriers for small businesses to go public, enabling entrepreneurs to pool investments from smaller investors, increasing the number of shareholders permitted to invest in a community bank, and removing a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulatory ban on using advertisements to solicit investors. Three key components of the JOBS Act were already approved by the House of Representatives in 2011 and supported by Congressman Rogers. For a summary, visit JOBS Act. Congressman Rogers has been committed to serving small businesses and boosting economic growth in Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. Through establishing organizations such as the Center for Rural Development and the Southern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED), Congressman Rogers has helped to provide leadership that stimulates innovative and sustainable economic development solutions and a better way of life in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
02.17.2012	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY05) announced today that Kentucky is slated to receive $8,165,391 in federal grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to sustain national preparedness capabilities throughout the Commonwealth. Through strategic planning efforts, training programs, critical supplies and equipment, medical response exercises and more, this funding will help to ensure a stronger response effort in the face of a state-wide or national emergency. “Even with 9/11 more than a decade behind us, it is critical for our Commonwealth emergency responders to remain vigilant and well-equipped with the necessary resources to appropriately respond in the face of a manmade or natural catastrophe,” stated Rogers. “This funding will go a long way toward protecting the Commonwealth and ensuring that all our communities, big or small, are ready at a moment’s notice if disaster were to strike. These programs provide our communities with the necessary coordination, direction and guidance during times of emergency that contribute to making Kentucky a safer place.” Among the federal grants, DHS will award Kentucky with $2,801,316 in the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) to supply the Commonwealth with the proper equipment, training, and exercise to prevent, protect, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. The remaining $5,364,075 will be awarded through an Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG), which builds state and local emergency management capabilities as well as ensures a high level of national preparedness among our first responders. This is a 3% increase in Kentucky’s EMPG funding from last year’s budget. Nationwide, DHS will release $339,500,000 in EMPG’s and $294,000,000 in SHSP’s to help improve nationwide preparedness and response in 2012. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
02.17.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of the Payroll Tax Holiday Agreement, which extends a lower payroll tax rate to our nation’s working men and women. The measure also extends unemployment insurance (UI) for Kentuckians currently looking for work, while providing a vital Medicare reimbursement fix until the end of the year. In a bipartisan vote, the House passed the measure 293-132 and the Senate passed the measure 60-36. H.R. 3630 now awaits consideration by the President. “Although this package was not my first choice, I refuse to let Washington’s political games and the lack of leadership in the White House result in a tax hike for millions of hardworking families. Kentuckians across the state are facing difficult times,” says Rogers. “By extending the payroll tax cut, families will get to keep more of their hard-earned money. Further, we’re strengthening unemployment assistance for our out-of-work neighbors, granting them more time to find jobs. Finally, H.R. 3630 will prevent a potential exodus of doctors and medical professionals who serve those dependent on Medicare.” This legislation extends payroll tax cut benefits to 160 million Americans and delivers a savings of approximately $1,000 for the average worker this year. In addition to extending the payroll-tax cut, this measure also prevents a 27.4 percent cut to Medicare doctors for the rest of 2012, ensuring that seniors and the disabled, particularly in rural areas, have access to quality care. This legislation also reforms certain Medicare programs to reduce wasteful spending and creates greater oversight of various Medicare programs to ensure taxpayer dollars are protected. Besides extending UI through 2012, H.R. 3630 also takes steps to reform this program to allow states to pilot innovative pro-work strategies, and permit drug testing for applicants who were terminated from their previous job due to drug use. This bill also closes the “Strip Club” loophole so that welfare funds cannot be accessed at ATMs in strip clubs, liquor stores, and casinos. Adjustments in retirement benefits for federal employees, sale of broadcast spectrum, and key parts of ObamaCare will be repealed to help offset the cost of the agreement. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
02.16.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of H.R. 3408, the Protecting Investment in Oil Shale the Next Generation of Environmental, Energy, and Resource Security (PIONEERS) Act, which would push forward the development of oil shale and increase development of our country’s vast oil and natural gas reserves. The PIONEER Act also includes a provision to accelerate construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, which would further enhance America’s jobs outlook and energy security. The House passed H.R. 3408 today 237-187. “Coming from a coal mining and growing natural gas region, I have seen firsthand how the Obama Administration has sought to lock up our country’s vast energy reserves at every opportunity – causing electricity and gas prices to shoot up and threatening our country’s energy security,” stated Rogers. “At a time when we need jobs more than ever, the PIONEER Act opens up access to one of our most promising new sources of American-made energy – oil shale – and ends the senseless, job-stifling moratoria on oil and gas drilling along the Outer Continental Shelf. In addition, this bill will speed up construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, which will ensure that low-cost oil flows into the U.S. We simply cannot afford to remain beholden to unfriendly foreign regimes in the Middle East when we have North American resources and workers.” Oil shale is rock that can be heated and used to extract materials that produce synthetic crude oil. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the U.S. holds more than half of the world’s oil shale resources, more than 1.5 trillion barrels of oil. This is six times the amount of Saudi Arabia’s proven resources, and is enough oil to provide the United States with energy for the next 200 years. While the Obama Administration has thrown up significant roadblocks to developing this promising resource, the PIONEERS Act would allow U.S. companies to develop oil shale. H.R. 3408 also opens up much of our Outer Continental Shelf to oil and natural gas exploration, as well as segments amounting to less than 3% of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuse (ANWR) in Alaska. The Department of Interior estimates that the Outer Continental Shelf contains 86 billion barrels of oil and 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in unexplored fields that could power our country for hundreds of years. The legislation encourages the use of domestic workers and equipment in all construction related to energy and mineral development. H.R. 3408 would also expedite construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. Despite overwhelming bipartisan support from organized labor, thousands of local and state businesses, mayors and Americans from all across the country for this critical jobs project, the Obama Administration has bowed to extreme environmentalists in rejecting the initial permit application for the pipeline. After more than three years of exhaustive environmental and economic reviews, the PIONEERS Act would move the project closer to completion, by requiring that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission make a final decision on a permit within thirty days. The PIONEERS Act is an important component of the House Republicans’ jobs agenda aimed at getting Americans back to work and our economy back on track. Rogers has supported twenty-seven bills focused on removing Washington’s red tape, renewing confidence in our economy, and creating jobs at home. None of them has been given due consideration by the U.S. Senate. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov.. ####
02.15.2012	Today, on February 15, 2012, Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers questioned Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano on the merits of the FY13 DHS Budget Request. Chairman Rogers addressed numerous Homeland Security funding measures, particularly the Administration’s questionable enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws and budgeting gimmicks proposed to support the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). The President’s budget proposes to offset a portion of the TSA budget through an unauthorized doubling of the aviation security passenger fee to $5 per flight, a proposal Chairman Rogers and Congress have rejected year after year. Chairman Rogers cautioned Secretary Napolitano that this year would likely be no exception, and her budget contains a $317 million hole. Click here to view a clip of the Congressman rejecting DHS Secretary Napolitano's budget gimmicks. Click here to view a clip of the Congressman’s opening statement at today’s hearing on the Administration’s FY13 DHS Budget Proposal. Click here to read the full opening statement. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ####
01.27.2012	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is providing financial assistance to eligible Bell and Whitley County businesses and non-profits which were impacted by severe storms in 2011. Specifically, SBA is accepting loan applications for small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, and most private non-profit organizations that suffered substantial economic injury due to excessive rain, high winds, and flooding that occurred from June 21 through December 5, 2011. “I urge any business that has suffered economic hardship to apply for this assistance,” said Rogers. “This program is designed to help the farm and nonfarm-related businesses recover and rebuild from the financial losses they suffered during storm disasters last year. Our people have proven to be resilient in every storm, but this is a reminder that help is just a phone call away during these difficult times." Businesses and farm-related entities that meet SBA criteria can apply for low-interest loans of up to $2 million to cover expenses. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the applicant, type of activity and its financial resources. Eligible counties are Bell and Whitley. The deadline to apply is September 18, 2012. For more information on the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program, to obtain application forms or to apply online, visit www.sba.gov, send an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov or call the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the hearing-impaired) Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information on how Congressman Rogers can assist the people he serves, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ConstituentServices. ###
01.27.2012	ICYMI: News Release from Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation: A ribbon cutting was held for the first prototype from the Houseboat to Energy Efficient Residences (HBEER) initiative with local, state and federal dignitaries today in an established residential area near downtown Monticello. HBEER is a partnership among Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation, the University of Kentucky College of Design, the Center for Applied Energy Research and the region’s houseboat manufacturers to produce energy-efficient, affordable housing. It is creating green jobs and bringing back to work some of the 575 skilled workers and 1,000 related jobs that were lost in the houseboat manufacturing and marine industries due to the economic downturn. “This project meets a multitude of needs in our region, by putting families back to work, providing energy-efficient housing, increasing the demand for Kentucky-made products, and creating a hands-on learning experience in the classroom,” Congressman Hal Rogers said. “Additionally, it highlights the great success we can achieve when partners join resources for the benefit of families across the state.” A potential buyer has nearly completed the steps to qualify for affordable, permanent financing. In this applicant driven process, the home may be occupied as soon as the financing is arranged. “The opportunities are endless for creating safe, energy-efficient, affordable homes while adding good-paying jobs to the local economy and promoting Kentucky products,” said KHIC President & CEO Jerry Rickett. “We are proud to be partners with the University of Kentucky and local employers to make this vision a reality.” Highlights of the project include: The estimated energy costs at current rates are expected to be about $1.65 per day, which is one-half to one-sixth of energy bills for other housing alternatives. More than 80 percent of the home value is derived from products made in Kentucky and Kentucky labor, which further increases the jobs created or saved. When the partnership began in 2009, Stardust Cruisers had 12 full-time employees and 12 contract workers. It now has 56 full-time employees, including six who are dedicated to the HBEER project. As a result of this project, Stardust also has improved the energy efficiency of its houseboats and is one of the few houseboat manufacturers exporting new products. The second prototype was delivered to rural Whitley County last month, has been set on its foundation and should be completed by the end of February. The next phase of the project will include a prototype for multifamily housing as well as classroom space for schools as an-energy efficient and more durable alternative to portable classrooms. In addition, the space will be flooded with natural lighting, which studies show improves learning. “The transfer of knowledge and expertise gained during the HBEER project traces the path of an arc leading directly from design research conducted at the University of Kentucky to design products meant to address important energy and economic needs of communities in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and beyond,” said UK College of Design Dean Michael Speaks. Other attendees included University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto, Appalachian Regional Commission Co-Chair Earl Gohl, USDA State Director Tom Fern and Monticello Mayor Jeffrey Edwards. The project has received financing from the U.S. Department of Energy through the Kentucky Department of Local Government and the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Appalachian Regional Commission, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. Commerce Department’s Economic Development Administration, and Rural Local Initiatives Support Corporation. Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation, founded in 1968 to stimulate economic growth in nine counties in Southern and Eastern Kentucky, now serves 22 counties in the region and has created more than 10,000 jobs. # # #
01.19.2012	On Thursday, January 19, 2012, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) recognized the 150th anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs by introducing two separate legislative measures to honor and preserve this historic Civil War site and applaud the work of volunteers and enthusiasts in protecting this southern Kentucky landmark. Occurring on January 19, 1862 in Pulaski and Wayne counties, the Battle of Mill Springs was the first significant victory for the Union Army in the west and blazed a trail for Union troops to move from Kentucky into Tennessee. The Mill Springs Battlefield Association (MSBA) has led efforts to acquire, preserve and maintain this battlefield for future generations; to date, over 50,000 Civil War enthusiasts have visited the 500-acre battlefield. “On this the 150th anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs, I am proud to commemorate this historic event and honor those who died in conflict on Kentucky soil. The outcome of this battle notably changed the course of the Civil War, and impacted our nation’s history,” stated Rogers. “As such, the battlefield is already a National Historic Landmark, and a treasured part of our community in Pulaski and Wayne Counties, welcoming thousands of visitors annually. I am proud to stand with the Mill Springs Battlefield Association and Civil War enthusiasts in commemorating this anniversary today and in seeking to preserve these hallowed grounds for generations to come.” With the support of the entire Kentucky delegation, Rogers introduced a non-binding congressional resolution (H. Res. 517) which pays tribute to the 150th anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs, the American blood shed, and its significance during the Civil War. The resolution recognizes the importance of preserving and educating the public about this noteworthy Civil War skirmish, congratulates the tireless work of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association in preserving this site, and encourages the people of the United States to visit Mill Springs. Additionally, on the occasion of the 150th Anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs, an American flag has been flown over the U.S. Capitol in commemoration of the American patriots who fought valiantly that day and those who continue to honor their legacy through the preservation of the historic site. Rogers also introduced binding legislation (H.R. 3792) that directs the National Park Service (NPS) to conduct a study to evaluate incorporating the battlefield into the national park system. If approved by Congress, the federally-led analysis would consider the economic and educational impacts that inclusion of Mill Springs would have on surrounding communities, impact to landowners, and cost of federal government operation. Currently, the Mill Springs Battlefield is being preserved and maintained through private sources, but adding the Mill Springs Battlefield site into the National Park Service will ensure its preservation for generations to come. Previously, Rogers secured over $1.35 million in federal funding to enhance the visitor experience at Mill Springs. The Battle of Mill Springs was the second largest battle to take place in Kentucky and the first significant Union victory in the western theater of the Civil War. In addition, the battle marks the death of Confederate General Felix Zollicoffer, who was the first general to die in the Civil War. The battle highly contributed to the outcome of the war, as the main Confederate defensive line that was anchored in eastern Kentucky was broken so that the Union army could move through Kentucky and into Tennessee for the major battles at Fort Donelson and Shiloh, Tennessee. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov <http://www.halrogers.house.gov/> . ### Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 1 min 11 seconds Mp3 verbatim: “This is congressman Hal Rogers, On this, the 150th Anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs, I’m proud to introduce two legislative measures in Congress to honor and preserve this important battlefield. A key Civil War skirmish, Mill Springs brought Union forces out west their first significant victory on January 19th, 1862 and paved the way for further advances against the Confederates in Tennessee. Today, this well-preserved battlefield is a joy to thousands of visitors annually thanks in large part to the leadership of the Mill Springs Battlefield Association. The legislation I’ve introduced today, recognizes the Association’s laudable efforts while requiring the National Park Service to evaluate inclusion of Mill Springs Battlefield into the national park system. Through these efforts, we’re taking another step toward ensuring future generations can experience the bravery of our Civil War soldiers and the importance of southern Kentucky in shaping our great nation.” Click here to view a copy of a statement offered by Rogers in the Congressional Record commemorating the 150th Anniversary of the Battle of Mill Springs
01.03.2012	District Update | January 3, 2012 Click here if you have trouble viewing this email Update From Hal Dear Friend, I welcome 2012 as a year full of hope and opportunity for southern and eastern Kentuckians. Many of our students are enjoying their first snow day of the year, so it may be a good time to talk to them about their new year's resolutions. I encourage you to help our young people set goals for the future. A few of the great opportunities to take advantage of in our region include The Congressional Award, Rogers Scholars, Rogers Explorers, and the Entrepreneurial Leadership Institiute (ELI). I believe that changing the future of our region starts with providing our young people with the best tools and opportunities to succeed on their own, right here at home. DISTRICT NEWS It was great to see our Kentucky National Guard 1/149th "Mountain Warriors" back on American soil and safely reunited with their families for Christmas in the Bluegrass. However, we should continue to lift up the thousands of troops deployed around the world who missed the holidays with their families, as they continue their brave sacrifices for this nation. NEWS ON THE HILL Like most Americans, I was disappointed that Congress was unable to deliver on a one year extension of payroll tax cuts and unemployment benefits, and a much needed two year “doc fix” which would prevent a 27 percent cut to doctors serving Medicare patients. On December 13th, I voted in support of a House proposal that would have accomplished these goals and been fully paid for with cuts in federal spending and critical reforms to programs. This initial, House-passed version would have also provided the longest period of assurance in over a decade for Medicare patients and doctors and enabled employers and workers to plan for a 12-month reduction in payroll taxes. Instead, Congress has agreed to a brief, two month extension until February 29 leaving lots of uncertainty in an already unstable economy. Come January, I am hopeful that Washington will get back to work and provide longer extensions of these important initiatives. APPROPRIATIONS NEWS At the beginning of 2011, I was tasked by my colleagues to cut government spending and help rein in federal agencies intent on pushing costly, job-killing regulations through my chairmanship of the Appropriations Committee. After 12 months, we’ve cut nearly $95 billion in real spending while ensuring that our soldiers, sailors, and airmen are well supplied, our veterans looked out for, and critical programs to fight prescription drug abuse are adequately funded in order to stop the nation’s fastest growing drug problem. This hasn’t been an easy task, but with $15 trillion in federal debt, we’ve got to make some tough choices in these tough times. As part of the final fiscal year 2011 spending bill, I was also pleased to include key provisions to stop or slow EPA’s war on coal and seek to restore this important natural resource to our energy security arsenal. To follow my work as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, visit: http://appropriations.house.gov or follow on Facebook. --- As always, please feel free to contact me at any time by sending me an email. If you would like to receive more frequent updates on what’s happening in Washington, please join my Facebook page or subscribe to my YouTube channel. Thank you to everyone who has dropped by to share your opinion -- let’s keep the dialogue going! Sincerely, Hal NEWS REVIEW OF 2011 SKED's Celebrates Silver Anniversary The Center for Rural Development Celebrates 15th Anniversary Forward in the Fifth Celebrates 25th Anniversary TOUR SEKY 11th Annual Tourism Forum Operation UNITE Unveils Meth Education Campaign: One-Step Misery PRIDE Kicks Off Energy Conservation Campaign TAKE THE SURVEY What do you think should be at the top of the Congressional list of New Year's resolutions? Vote Now! RESULTS OF LAST MONTH'S SURVEY: Do you support the National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act of 2011 that would allow out-of-state visitors to carry concealed weapons across state lines if permitted by their home state? 88.4% said "Yes" 11.6% said "No" SPOTLIGHT BROADCASTS Click here to watch Chairman Rogers' floor speech on the FY12 "Mini-bus" ABC Nightline: Meth Lab Crackdown in Kentucky, Operation UNITE Welcome home message for the "Mountain Warriors" Washington, DC 2406 Rayburn H O B Washington, DC 20515 T 202-225-4601 F 202-225-0940 Somerset Office 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 T1 800-632-8588 T2 606-679-8346 F 606-678-4856 Hazard Office 601 Main Street Hazard, KY 41701 T 606-439-0794 F 606-439-4647 Prestonburg Office 110 Resource Ct, Ste A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 T 606-886-0844 F 606-889-0371 UPDATE SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS | PRIVACY POLICY | CONTACT US
12.23.2011	Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that President Obama has signed into law H.R. 2055, the final Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 Appropriations Conference Report, which includes a number of provisions to support ongoing federal efforts to combat drug abuse. Rogers has been a strong advocate for federal policies and programs to fight our country’s fastest growing drug threat – the abuse and misuse of prescription and illicit drugs. Through his role as Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers worked to pass this legislation, which also funds several key federal agencies for the remainder of FY 2012. “According to a recent survey, nearly 50% of families in southern and eastern Kentucky have a friend, a relative, or a neighbor who is struggling with addiction to prescription drug abuse. While our region has been beating back on this epidemic for more than a decade through Operation UNITE, prescription drug abuse is now the fastest growing drug threat confronting our nation – particularly among our troops and veterans,” stated Rogers. “In an era when we have shepherded historic cuts in federal spending, I am proud to support continued funding for these important programs which provide our law enforcement and military with the tools to root out bad actors, provide treatment and rehabilitation options for addicts, and afford important training opportunities for the countless volunteers on the ground working to combat this scourge in their communities.” H.R. 2055 contains a number of provisions to combat drug abuse, including: Ø Authorization of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to participate in state-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP). For years, legal obstacles have precluded the VA from participating in state-run PDMPs, which are among the most effective and efficient tools available for doctors and pharmacists to identify individuals of risk for abuse or in need of treatment. H.R. 2055 includes important language authorizing VA to access this important information so that our men and women in uniform can receive the best possible care. Ø Requirement for the Department of Defense (DOD) to examine electronically transmitting prescription data to the Department’s central drug information repository. In 2009, Pentagon data indicates that military doctors wrote almost 3.8 million prescriptions for pain relief for our military men and women – more than four times the dosage in 2001. According to U.S. Army reports, the prescription of pain management drugs is handled inconsistently at military medical treatment facilities, particularly in combat areas. Given the increasing concern that the growing use of pain management medication leads to dependency among service members, H.R. 2055 requires DOD to develop an action plan for establishing a more consistent internal electronic transmission process and for potential cooperation with state-run PDMPs. Ø $50 million in the DOD budget for the National Guard to continue its counter-drug state plans. A portion of this funding will assist the Kentucky National Guard’s ongoing efforts in support of local partners like Appalachian HIDTA, Operation UNITE and the U.S. Forest Service to tackle the drug problem in the Commonwealth. This funding is essential to stopping home-grown marijuana and methamphetamine production and cleaning up the Daniel Boone National Forest. Ø Vital funding for drug courts in communities around the country. H.R. 2055 provides an additional $67.6 million within the Department of Health and Human Services to support drug courts around the country, which give thousands of men and women a second lease on life. This funding supplements an additional $35 million for drugs courts, which were funded when the Department of Justice’s budget was signed into law in November. H.R. 2055 also includes an additional $1.4 million for drug court training and technical assistance. Ø Support for our nation’s High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). A total of $238.5 million is included in H.R. 2055 to support HIDTAs around the country, a portion of which will be allocated to aid the ongoing mission of the well-regarded Appalachian HIDTA. Appalachian HIDTA was established in 1998 to attack, disrupt, and dismantle the drug trafficking and money laundering organizations operating in about 70 counties in Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee and Virginia. Appalachian HIDTA has an annual budget of about $7 million. Ø Funds for organizations that assist states in developing model drug laws. The legislation includes $1.25 million to support organizations that advise States on establishing laws and policies to address alcohol and drug-related issues. As states around the country work to address the unique challenges within their borders, such assistance will be necessary to develop the legal frameworks to put treatment, education or monitoring programs into effect. Rogers is a founding member and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which unites like-minded policy-makers in their efforts to raise awareness of abuse, and to work towards innovative and effective policy solutions. In 2003, Rogers helped launch Operation UNITE, an effort to to rid 29 southern and eastern Kentucky counties of illegal drug use through undercover narcotics investigations, coordinating treatment for drug users, providing support to families and friends of substance abusers, while educating the public about the dangers of illicit drugs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
12.16.2011	Today, Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives has passed H.R. 2055, the final Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 Appropriations Conference Report, which includes funding for several key federal agencies including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Veterans Affairs and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. This important legislation sponsored by Rogers also includes important provisions to rein in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal regulatory agencies that threaten job opportunities and economic development in southern and eastern Kentucky. H.R. 2055 passed on a bipartisan 296-121 vote, and will move forward to the U.S. Senate before being signed into law by President Obama. “I am pleased that the Congress was able to work together to pass the final 2012 funding package, which reduces the size and scope of the federal government by cutting spending and reining in excessive government regulations, but protects funding and supplies for our military servicemen and women,” stated Rogers. “For two years, this Administration has gone out of its way to end coal and coal-mining jobs. Through this conference report, we have taken another significant step toward putting a stop to the EPA and other agencies that threaten the quality and way of life for thousands of Kentuckians. This legislation reaffirms coal as a key source of reliable, affordable energy and coal mining families as vital to our region’s long-term prosperity.” Through his role as Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers has consistently promoted policies which reduce the size of government and roll back excessive and harmful federal regulations. H.R. 2055 contains a number of provisions to stop or slow misguided attempts to replace coal in our country’s energy portfolio, including: · Rolling back the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) overzealous regulatory agenda. Since 2010, the EPA’s budget has been cut by $1.58 billion, including the elimination of $4 million in funding in H.R. 2055 that EPA has used to delay the processing of Appalachian mining permits, sending a message that “legislation by regulation” will not be tolerated by the U.S. Congress. In addition, the bill puts in place a number of policy riders to increase domestic energy production and create jobs at home. · Ensuring that States maintain their roles as the primary overseers of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA). This legislation fully funds the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) grants to States to operate their surface mining regulatory programs while rejecting the President’s proposal to increase Federal inspections of State programs which would be redundant and wasteful Federal spending. · Maintaining our nation’s commitment to coal research. The bill provides $534 million to the Department of Energy's Fossil Energy program for research and development to advance coal, natural gas, and other fossil energy power generation technologies. At a time when most other discretionary funding programs sustained significant budget cuts, the commitment to fossil energy research ($81 million increase above the President's request) sends a strong signal that coal will be a part of our country’s energy portfolio for the long-term. · Insisting on outside review of proposed coal mining process regulations. The Department of Labor is prohibited from implementing or enforcing a proposed “coal dust” rule until an independent assessment of the integrity of the data and methodology behind the rule is conducted – preventing the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) from shutting down mines around the country and handing pink slips to hard-working miners in southern and eastern Kentucky. The legislation also contains language to facilitate the purchase and deployment of mine rescue communication systems. With final passage of the H.R. 2055 Conference Report, Congress will have cut discretionary spending for an historic second year in a row, cutting nearly $95 billion in discretionary spending compared to fiscal year 2010. The measure fulfills the Republican pledge to “root out government waste” and save taxpayers millions through the elimination of costly and duplicative programs. This bill instead helps to create a better environment for job growth by eliminating excessive government regulations on job creators and providing funding for programs to help speed up the development of new American energy. As Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Rogers has led our country in reducing the federal deficit and restoring our country’s ailing economy. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ### Click here to watch Congressman Rogers speak on the FY 12 Appropriations legislation For more information on H.R. 2055 click here
12.13.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act of 2011, which offsets the cost of extending payroll tax relief and unemployment benefit extensions. In addition, the bill would immediately create jobs by streamlining the construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to Texas while rolling back four harmful EPA regulations collectively known as Boiler MACT. The House passed the measure 234-193, and H.R. 3630 now awaits consideration by the Senate before the end of the year. “With unemployment levels parked above 8 percent and with some southern and eastern Kentucky counties nearly double that level, nothing is more important for Washington than getting our economy back on track and spurring job creation,” said Rogers. “By lengthening the payroll tax cut for another year, families will keep more of their hard-earned money while extending unemployment benefits will give our out-of-work neighbors more time to land a job. Most importantly, my Republican colleagues and I are making the difficult decisions and paying for these programs.” This legislation extends a number of programs that are expected to expire at the end of the year, including a fully paid-for extension of the payroll tax holiday for the next year and a reformed unemployment benefits program. In addition, this measure also prevents a 27 percent cut to doctors serving Medicare patients, and provides two years of stable Medicare physician pay to ensure that seniors are getting the best quality care. H.R. 3630 also includes measures to directly support the creation of private sector jobs by blocking excessive federal regulations and expediting the Keystone XL energy pipeline. The EPA’s co-called Boiler MACT regulations could shut down many of our country’s 200,000 coal-fired utility boilers, and this bill reasonably provides industry with additional time to comply with these restrictive standards. In addition, the bill requires the President to issue a permit for the Keystone XL pipeline within the next 60 days unless he determines that the pipeline would not serve the national interest. Not only would this important project immediately create 20,000 construction and manufacturing jobs, but it assures the United States a secure and reliable source of affordable energy, which will be vital to economic recovery. The cost of the bill is fully offset with commonsense spending cuts and other savings provisions, which would, in fact, result in a deficit reduction of $5.8 billion in the next ten years. Among these savings are provisions to: cut funds from Obamacare; increase Medicare premiums on higher-income beneficiaries and loan guarantee fees charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and extend the pay freeze for federal employees and require federal workers to contribute more towards their retirement. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
12.09.2011	On Thursday, Congressman Rogers delivered opening remarks at a multidisciplinary roundtable discussion that convened on Capitol Hill to hone in on the issue of prescription drug fraud. The roundtable explored and discussed practical solutions for how the government and private industry can work together to combat the growing issue of prescription drug abuse and prevent future fraud and misuse. The prescription drug epidemic roundtable featured commentary from multiple perspectives, and included representatives from the National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association, healthcare provider OptumRx, a former federal prosecutor and federal criminal health care fraud coordinator, and the National Institute on Drug Abuse. “This epidemic began in the hills and hollers of Appalachian Kentucky. These powerful drugs, intended to manage pain, were suddenly creating pain in the form of overdoses, crime and uncontrolled addiction,” stated Rogers, co-founder of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “While the first wave hit Appalachia, this second wave is now hitting the streets of Boston, suburban families in LA, and countless communities in the South. Now the diversion of prescription pills is the fastest growing drug problem nationwide, and it will require a broad and dedicated coalition to curb the rising tide of prescription drug abuse.” Prescription drug fraud, waste, and abuse is the fastest growing drug problem nationwide with abuse transcending state lines and socio-economic levels. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 12 million Americans said they were using opioid pain relievers without a prescription in 2010. That same year, 254 million prescriptions for opioids were filled in the United States, enough painkillers to medicate every American adult around the clock for a month. The number of emergency room visits because of prescription drug overdoses has increased by over 400% in the last ten years. Drug overdoses are second only to motor vehicle accidents in accidental deaths in our country, and prescription narcotics now kill more people than heroin and cocaine combined. Consensus emerged from the diverse group of panelists for additional education for the public and providers, as well as accessible and affordable treatment options for patients. Other solutions discussed included enhanced data collection and analysis, and real-time information sharing to prevent fraudulent or wasteful prescriptions from being filled; and partnerships between industry and law enforcement to uncover illegal pharmacies and prescribers. The Roundtable was sponsored by OptumRx, a leading pharmacy benefits management organization and an Optum company. Roundtable panelists included Louis Saccoccio, Executive Director, National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association (NHCAA); Joshua Stein, Senior Vice President and Principal Counsel, OptumRx; Michael Theis, Partner, Hogan Lovells, and former criminal health care fraud coordinator for the District of Colorado; and David Shurtleff, Ph.D., Acting Deputy Director, National Institute on Drug Abuse. As part of his efforts to fight this growing epidemic, Rogers joined with Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch in forming the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ### Click here to watch Congressman Rogers’ message on Prescription Drug Fraud
12.08.2011	Today Congressman Rogers voted in favor of H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act of 2011, which will prohibit any further regulation of rural dust by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This bill will eliminate the threat of excessive new federal regulations that could hurt American farmers, ranchers, and small businesses. The House passed the measure by 268 - 150 and H.R. 1633 now awaits consideration by the Senate. “For farmers in southern and eastern Kentucky, dust is a part of everyday business and life. Driving a tractor down a dirt road and plowing a field on a dry day could put farmers at risk for violating EPA regulations costing farmers days of production and revenue,” said Rogers. “The EPA has put a bullseye on rural businesses across the spectrum – from coal mines, to family farms, to manufacturers. In this economy, the federal government should be working with rural businesses to create jobs, not introducing more red tape and regulations.” Rural communities in America are a vital part of the U.S. economy, providing affordable food and agricultural products. The agricultural sector alone supports 1.8 million American jobs and represents 5% of U.S. exports, serving as a central force behind our nation’s infrastructure and innovation. Earlier this year, the EPA proposed costly “dust rules” and stringent standards that would impact all of rural America and hurt an already staggering economy. H.R. 1633 affirms that state and local officials are better equipped to manage nuisance dust than unelected Washington-based bureaucrats, and will prohibit the EPA from imposing job-killing federal regulations on rural America. Upon passage, H.R. 1633 will join more than 25 other bipartisan, House-passed jobs bills that are stalled in the slow-moving Senate. This year, Rogers has supported dozens of bills focused on removing government barriers – excessive regulations, the threat of tax hikes, and ‘stimulus’ spending policies – that are hurting job growth. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ### Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 1 min 2 seconds Mp3 verbatim: “The Obama Administration’s Environmental Protection Agency is at it again, this time trying to regulate controls on of all things- dust on farms. This out-of-control agency now is declaring a war on farmers, joining their war on coal. Which I’ve been fighting for a long time. Across Kentucky, farmers are the lifeblood of our economy and the heartbeat of our communities. Yet once again, the EPA is threatening these important jobs with wrong-headed, Washington-based regulations. Fortunately, today I supported, and the House of Representatives passed a bill that tries to stop the continued assault on working family farms and reminds Washington that “farm dust” is just part of doing the job; not an environmental hazard. Today’s bill puts a stop to one more misguided EPA rulemaking. It’s time for Washington let us put Americans back to work and get our economy back on track.”
12.07.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of H.R. 10, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which would require both Congress and the President to sign-off on all major federal regulations that cost businesses over $100 million annually. The House passed the measure 241-184 and H.R. 10 now awaits consideration by the Senate. “In this ailing economy, job growth continues to remain my number one priority,” states Rogers. “With unemployment rates at an all time high, we must cut the red tape that’s strangling farm families, mine operators, and small businesses and forcing Americans out of work. I applaud Kentucky’s own Congressman Geoff Davis for his tireless effort to win passage of the REINS Act, which stops the onslaught of federal regulations and gives our job creators confidence to hire Kentucky workers and spend more, invest more, and produce more. This commonsense legislation is a win-win and will put us one step closer towards restoring our economy.” Today, America’s job creators have become buried under an estimated $1.75 trillion regulatory burden, and yet in 2010 and 2011, the Obama Administration introduced 410 new major rules that have cast additional uncertainty into an already unstable economy. A “major rule” is one which would have an annual economic impact of $100 million or more. The REINS Act would prohibit many of these ill-conceived job killing regulations from moving forward by requiring Congress to take an up-or-down, stand-alone vote on all new major rules before they can be enforced on the American people, job creators, or state and local governments. The approval resolution must move through Congress within seventy legislative days to ensure there is certainty in the process and regulations do not linger without approval. The REINS Act is a key part of the House Republicans’ jobs agenda. Rogers has supported twenty six bills focused on removing government barriers – excessive regulations, the threat of tax hikes, and ‘stimulus’ spending policies – that are hurting job growth. None of them has been considered by the U.S. Senate. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
12.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) received the Washington Coal Club’s annual “Achievement Award” during the organization’s yearly banquet, held on November 30, 2011. The Washington Coal Club is a non-profit organization consisting of 300 members with diverse coal-related interests and backgrounds ranging from producers, transporters, legislators, and policymakers. Each year, the Washington Coal Club honors an individual who has recently made a meaningful contribution to the coal community and proven his or her dedication to the utilization of coal. “If we are serious about rebuilding our economy, creating good-paying jobs, and ending our dependence on foreign oil, coal must remain a vital part of our country's energy mix,” said Rogers. “So many hardworking Kentuckians rely on coal mining and hauling jobs. I’m proud to stand by my colleagues and reaffirm my commitment to ensuring that coal remains a part of this great Nation’s economic recovery and growth. While coal jobs and coal’s future are under threat by this Administration, I’m pleased to see organizations like the Coal Club stand tall and promote the opportunity that coal represents.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ### Photo #1 Cutline: Congressman Rogers receives his award from Vice President of the Washington Coal Club, Pat Cavanagh
12.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the release of highway emergency relief funds for southern and eastern Kentucky through two separate grants from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The funds totaling $2.7 million, will assist seven counties across southern and eastern Kentucky repair damaged roads as a result of severe storm damage beginning in June, earlier this year. The following counties in the 5th Congressional District are eligible for repair funds: Bell, Knox, Lawrence, Martin, Perry, Pike and Whitley Counties. “Our region suffered severe damage this past summer, leaving behind costly damage to our infrastructure,” stated Rogers. "These emergency funds will help restore vital roadways and will go a long way to prevent potential damage from future storms.” The Emergency Relief (ER) program was authorized within the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, for the repair or reconstruction of federal-aid highways and roads on federal lands that have suffered serious damage as a result of natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. These funds are awarded to a State after the President or the Governor issues a formal emergency declaration and the State files a request for ER for the cost of damages to its eligible highways. Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition. In June and July, Kentucky was subjected to severe storms, flooding, and mudslides resulting in debris and roadway damages to federal-aid highways. Typical damages include debris deposits on many roadways and around bridge piers, shoulder and embankment washouts, and pavement slides. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
11.23.2011	Rep. Hal Rogers, chair of the powerful Appropriations Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives and long­time advocate for his eastern and southern Kentucky congressional district, accepted the 2011 Distinguished Rural Kentuckian Award from the Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives on Monday. The award recognizes Rogers’ solid support for electric co-ops in Congress and his wide-ranging and creative support for improving the quality of life for the people in the 29 counties of the 5th congressional district. Rogers has served in Congress since 1981 and in 2010 rose to the prominent national position chairing the House Appropriations Committee in an era of unprecedented focus on the federal government spending that is the domain of that committee. In addition to that key appropriations role, Rogers says his main career focus is to create more jobs in his district so people can thrive there and make a good living. His efforts over the decades have included helping create major flood control projects, improving education through regional scholarships, promoting the regional tourism industry, conducting ongoing drives to reduce drug abuse and beautify the region, and supporting the construction of the Center for Rural Development in Somerset. The electric co-ops of Kentucky have presented the Distinguished Rural Kentuckian Award annually since 1982 to recognize people who have improved the quality of life in the state. The first recipient was author Jesse Stuart of Greenup. Other recipients include broadcaster Cawood Ledford, Governor A.B. “Happy” Chandler, KET founder O. Leonard Press, rural physician Dr. Louise Caudill, author Wendell Berry, media executive Jim Host, and Senator Wendell Ford. Rogers accepted the award at a banquet during the 65th annual meeting of the Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives. Upon receiving the award, Rogers remarked, "I am honored to join the prestigious roster of Distinguished Rural Kentuckian Award-winners. The Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives has improved the way we communicate about utility issues across the Commonwealth. I commend the electric co-ops for being proactive in educating communities about energy conservation, giving businesses and families innovative ideas to save energy and save money." The Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives, based in Louisville, represents 26 local, user-owned, electric cooperatives, which provide electricity to about one-third of the homes and businesses in the state, covering parts of 117 of the 120 counties in Kentucky. Rep. Hal Rogers, who represents Kentucky’s 5th congressional district and chairs the powerful Appropriations Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, accepts the 2011 Distinguished Rural Kentuckian Award from the Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives at the association’s annual meeting banquet in Louisville Monday night. ### Photo #1 Cutline: Hal Rogers Recives Distinguished Service Award from Kentucky's Electric Cooperatives Photo courtesy KAEC. *This Press Release was recently released by the Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives.
11.22.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) helped break ground on a $47 million dollar expansion project at the Hazard Appalachian Regional Healthcare (ARH) Regional Medical Center in Hazard, Kentucky. The expansion project will create approximately 150 new healthcare jobs. "Appalachian Regional Healthcare has improved access to healthcare across southern and eastern Kentucky, providing new medical services and partnering in research to reduce the medical disparities that plague our region," said Congressman Rogers. "Today, through this impressive expansion, ARH reaffirms its dedication to the Hazard community. The medical care that will result from this investment not only strengthen the health and well being of our people, but creates good-paying jobs here and in the surrounding counties." ARH President and CEO Jerry Haynes said the new patient tower will include a new, larger emergency department with 24 beds, 50 private rooms with 16 beds dedicated to cardiac critical care, and will relocate the medical center's helipad to the top of the new facility for safer and timelier air transports. During his keynote address, Rogers noted the expansion project will fulfill the vision of the late Bill Gorman, former Mayor of Hazard, who was a long-time advocate for improvements in healthcare across eastern Kentucky, especially in his hometown. In his final days in 2010, Gorman shared his vision with Rogers for a major expansion at Hazard ARH Regional Medical Center. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
11.21.2011	On Saturday, November 19, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) received the “KCTCS President’s Medallion for Distinguished Service,” by the Kentucky Community and Technical College System (KCTCS) during the organization’s 12th Annual President’s Gala and Benefactors Awards Dinner. Each year, the event provides an opportunity for KCTCS to honor a select few Kentuckians who support the mission and objectives of KCTCS. In recognition of his success in serving and leading Kentucky’s fifth congressional district, KCTCS founding President Michael B. McCall presented Congressman Rogers with the award at a program in Lexington. “I’m truly honored to receive this medallion and stand alongside the fine network of community colleges that span our Commonwealth,” said Rogers. “I’ve been proud to work with President McCall, local, southern and eastern Kentucky KCTCS faculty, and others in creating real educational and job-training opportunities. KCTCS leads our state in creating tomorrow’s workforce particularly in healthcare, aviation, technology, and emerging science fields, and I look forward to continuing to partner together.” “The Kentucky Community and Technical College System would not be the premier system it is today without the unwavering support of Chairman Hal Rogers,” stated KCTCS President McCall. “Since our inception in 1998 he has been one of our strongest allies and supporters. His commitment to bringing jobs, better education and greater opportunities to the hardworking families who live in his district parallels the mission of our organization so it is only fitting we award him the KCTCS President’s Medallion for Distinguished Service.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
11.18.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) today supported the passage of H.J.Res. 2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. If passed, the Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) would have legally required the federal government to live within its means by ensuring that spending does not exceed total revenues. The vote on the amendment failed to achieve the required two-thirds majority support necessary for a constitutional amendment. The final vote tally was 261-165. “We simply cannot continue to mortgage our children’s future with reckless big-spending, big-government policies. A Balanced Budget Amendment will begin to hold our federal government accountable and put in place a framework to stop the spending,” stated Rogers, an original co-sponsor of H.J.Res. 2. “Forty-nine states, including Kentucky, and families around the country, balance their checkbooks every month making tough decisions to make ends meet. Unfortunately, some of my colleagues are refusing to make hard choices and own up to our need to rein in out-of-control Washington spending. Americans recognize we can no longer wait and must begin to work together to change the financial direction of our country.” Balancing the budget is not a new idea. For the first 140 years of America’s history, the federal government followed an unwritten rule that budgets should be balanced. Today, however, the United States has accumulated $15 trillion in debt, including $3.7 trillion under President Obama’s watch. This is the fastest increase in debt under any U.S. President in history. For every dollar spent, the federal government is borrowing 42 cents and unfairly burdening future generations. Today, 74 percent of Americans support passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment. Specifically, H.J.Res. 2 stipulates that Congress may not spend more money than received, while also making tax increases or raising the debt ceiling more difficult in the future. A Constitutional amendment must pass with the support of two-thirds of the House (290 votes) and the Senate (67 votes) before it is sent to the states for ratification. Three quarters of the states must ratify the amendment before it becomes a part of the U.S. Constitution. In 1995, with Rogers’ support, Congress came very close to passing a balanced budget amendment with bipartisan support; however, the amendment fell just one vote short in the Senate. Since then, the national debt has increased over $9 trillion dollars. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. As Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, he is a strong voice in Congress for fiscal responsibility and reducing the scope and size of government in order to get the U.S. economy back on track and create jobs for the hard-working people of Kentucky. Through his leadership, Congress has cut real federal spending by over $40 billion this year alone. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
11.17.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, announced that the House of Representatives has passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 Agriculture, Commerce/Justice/Science (CJS), and Transportation/Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bills – also known as the “Mini-bus.” In addition, the package contains a Continuing Resolution (CR) to avoid a government shutdown and continues other federal operations until December 16, 2011 – or until Congress completes the remaining nine FY 2012 Appropriations bills. This CR is a “clean” extension and includes no new funding provisions. This important legislation passed on a bipartisan 298-121 vote and now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. “The legislation passed today represents a bipartisan compromise that will prevent a potential government shutdown, support drug investigations and law enforcement, food and drug safety, transportation, and rural and economic development programs and services that Kentuckians rely on,” stated Rogers. “We also included a number of provisions that will reduce harmful regulations on employers, create a better environment for economic growth and job creation, and halt unnecessary government interference into the daily lives of Americans. This package represents significant progress in the budgetary work of Congress, and will put us one step closer to a return to regular order and the completion of all Appropriations bills for the fiscal year 2012.” The conference agreement for the three bills upholds the overall regular base discretionary level of $1.043 trillion as agreed to in the Budget Control Act (BCA). This funding level is a decrease of $7 billion from last year, and represents a savings of $98 billion compared to the President’s request. The measure fulfills the GOP’s pledge to “root out government waste” and remove “costly and duplicative programs,” saving taxpayers millions through the elimination of 20 federal programs. The bill instead provides responsible funding for integral federal agencies and departments which facilitate public safety and health, improve infrastructure, protect the country’s most vulnerable citizens, and help grow the economy – including a number of programs of particular importance to Kentucky. Highlights from this conference report include: ·Targeted Resources to Combat the Ongoing Threat of Prescription Drug Abuse Acknowledging that the prescription drug epidemic has become a threat across the nation, the bill includes $7 million for the Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to facilitate the development of state-run prescription monitoring programs; $32 million for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to enhance regulatory and enforcement efforts to combat prescription drug abuse; $12.5 million to assist states and community clean up meth lab sites; and $35 million to support Drug Courts in communities around the country. ·Important Policy Items to Rein in the Administration’s Job-Killing Regulatory Overreach The conference report contains several provisions to discourage government overreach in the daily lives of Americans, provide better oversight on the use of precious taxpayer dollars, and tighten the reins on harmful, job-killing federal regulations that make it harder for employers to create jobs. One of these items includes the prevention of heavy-handed school lunch regulations that would have cost financially strapped local school districts an estimated $7 billion over the next five years in compliance costs. ·Vital Funding for the Federal Surface Transportation Program The conference agreement provides $39.9 billion for the federal highway program, which is the annual spending level set by the latest multi-year highway authorization bill. In Kentucky, this translates to over $675 million in road construction and improvements. In addition, the agreement provides $1.66 billion for the Federal Highway Administration’s Emergency Relief (ER) program, which assists states in rebuilding federal highways and bridges damaged by major natural disasters. ·Support for the Economic Development Administration (EDA) The bill includes $257 million in base funding for the EDA and an additional $200 million in disaster relief funding to respond to recent natural disasters. This funding will support ongoing efforts of Kentucky’s many Area Development Districts to promote economic and community development around the Commonwealth. ·Critical Funding to Support Home Ownership in Low-Income Communities The conference agreement provides $2.25 billion for rural development programs within the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This includes $42.5 million for the Section 502 Direct Loan Program, which will support approximately $900 million in direct single-family housing loans to make the dream of home ownership a reality for low-income families in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. In addition, the conference agreement provides $900 million for the rental assistance program to help provide affordable housing for rural low-income families and the elderly. As Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Rogers has led our country in reducing the federal deficit and restoring our country’s ailing economy. Through his leadership, Congress has cut real federal spending by $40 billion this year alone. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov <http://www.halrogers.house.gov> . ### Click here to watch a short message from Congressman Rogers on the Fiscal Year 2012 “Mini-bus”
10.27.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) today supported the passage of bi-partisan legislation to permanently repeal the burdensome 3 percent withholding tax on small businesses. A component of Republicans’ Plan for America’s Job Creators, the Withholding Tax Relief Act (H.R. 674) will protect small business job creators from yet another excessive government rule. “Our Nation’s small business owners are already struggling to make ends meet, and this burdensome withholding tax would simply drain precious capital that could otherwise be used to make payroll, expand production, and create jobs,” stated Rogers, a cosponsor of H.R. 674. “I believe H.R. 674 will put investment dollars back into the hands of job creators and business leaders throughout southern and eastern Kentucky, and represents a small step forward in getting our economy back on track.” A 2005 federal law requiring that federal, state and most local governments withhold a total of 3 percent on payments to contractors on government projects is scheduled to take effect in 2013. If the 3 percent withholding tax were implemented as scheduled, government entities would be required to withhold 3 percent of payments to companies providing property or services. For example, on an invoice for $20,000, the government would pay the business $19,400 and withhold $600 as a preemptive tax. This onerous withholding requirement has added to the colossal amount of uncertainty facing employers in this economy, threatening to put companies out of business and taking away the possibility of future job investments. The 3 percent withholding provisions would affect a wide range of Kentucky businesses in the agricultural, medical, higher education, road and infrastructure construction, engineering, and architectural sectors. Its repeal represents a fiscally responsible approach to job creation, and is consistent with Rogers’ continued focus on policies that will encourage economic recovery, create jobs and build sustainable, long-term growth. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information, visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ### Click Here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 1 minute mp3 verbatim: "We must get Americans back to work. That's the cure for this ailing economy. I'm supporting a serious jobs plan. Less government red-tape, pro-small business growth, and tax reform that creates American jobs. Today, the House took a small step in cutting out a looming tax on American businesses by voting to repeal a 3% withholding tax imposed on small businesses and job creators. If allowed to proceed, this tax would require federal, state, and local governments to withhold 3% of payment due to companies simply to appease the IRS. That’s billions of dollars that can’t be used to buy equipment, hire a new employee, or expand production. Enough is enough. I’m proud to stand with business leaders and demand Washington get out of the way of American enterprise and job creation."
10.21.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) visited with two visionary groups in eastern Kentucky on Wednesday, October 19th. During a monthly meeting in Whitesburg, the Letcher County Planning Commission updated Congressman Rogers on progress and plans for economic development and tourism in Letcher County. "The Letcher County Planning Commission is on the right track," said Rogers. "You can change your outlook and make great things happen in your community by getting involved. I commend you for being proactive and planning your work and working your plan." Congressman Rogers later joined the newly formed Southeast Kentucky Chamber of Commerce, made up of eight counties, including Floyd, Johnson, Knott, Lawrence, Letcher, Magoffin, Martin, and Pike Counties. Together, they announced the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded a Small Community Air Service Development grant to implement a scheduled passenger airline service at the Pikeville-Pike County Regional Airport. The $750,000 Federal Aviation Administration grant will provide a revenue guarantee for a commercial airline service to be established in eastern Kentucky. “This grant is a big step toward opening greater doors of opportunity for eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “This project has been in the works for more than two years and I am pleased that the Department of Transportation recognized the hard work and commitment from area leaders to bring this much needed air service to the region. A scheduled passenger airline service will benefit economic development, tourism and much more.” The Small Community Air Service Development Program offers highly competitive grants to small communities across the country where air fares are higher than average and improved service will provide benefits to businesses, educational institutions and other enterprises. The City of Pikeville was one of only 29 communities selected across 22 states to receive this grant. Only three of the awards will assist communities in acquiring scheduled airline service. City and airport leaders are working with L.B. Schmidt and Associates, LLC to continue discussions with a commercial carrier. “This is not a Pikeville project. It is an eastern Kentucky project,” said Tracy Syck, Chairperson of the Southeast Kentucky Chamber of Commerce that represents eight counties. “Businesses in cities along U.S. 23 and highway 80 will all have a local commercial airport to call their own. We are working diligently to secure an air carrier that will be as committed to our region as we are.” “We are leaps ahead of where we were last year and everybody is really excited,” said Donovan Blackburn, Pikeville City Manager. “I believe you’re going to see commercial air service at the Pikeville-Pike County Regional Airport very soon. We will be making some improvements at the airport and working with TSA for security at the terminal to prepare for our new air service.” The Pikeville-Pike County Regional Airport is approximately 6 miles northwest of Pikeville, Kentucky. More than 20 aircraft are based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. #####
10.18.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) was named “Congressman of the Year” by the Kentucky Narcotics Officers’ Association (KNOA) during the organization’s annual conference in Louisville, Kentucky on Monday, October 17, 2011. “I am honored to be recognized by the men and women who are on the front lines every day in the war on drugs,” said Rogers. “I attended the KNOA conference to encourage these officers, despite the overwhelming scourge of drugs in our Commonwealth. Their undercover operations are vital to bringing major and street level drug dealers to justice. We need to continue sending out the message: if you’re using drugs, get help; if you’re dealing drugs, get out.” "Whether we need his support in Washington, Frankfort or across southern and eastern Kentucky, Congressman Rogers is a powerful voice for law enforcement agencies across the state," said Vic Brown, President of KNOA and director of Kentucky HIDTA. "We named him Congressman of the Year for his tenacity in fighting the drug problem, as well as ensuring we have the tools necessary to be effective in investigating illicit drug trafficking and abuse." With the rate of meth labs continuing to climb in Kentucky, Rogers reiterated his support to return the drug’s main ingredient, pseudoephedrine, to a prescription-only medication. He commended State Senator Tom Jensen, House Speaker Greg Stumbo and State Representative Linda Belcher for their efforts in proposing legislation last year. KNOA named Sen. Jensen, Kentucky Senator of the Year and Rep. Belcher, Kentucky Representative of the Year. Rogers presented Kentucky State Police Lt. Col. Joe Williams, Director of Operations, with a “Difference Maker Award” for his exemplary leadership in the war on drugs. Rogers also commended Frank Rapier, the director of Appalachia HIDTA (High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area), who is scheduled to retire in November. Rapier has been the director of Appalachia HIDTA, serving Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia for nine years and served more than 30 years as a special agent for the U.S. Treasury. KNOA named Bret Kirkland and David Hayes the 2011 Narcotics Officers of the Year for the east and west divisions. Kirkland is a detective with Kentucky State Police and David Hayes is an agent for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) in Bowling Green. The organization also honored Dave Keller, who recently retired as director of Kentucky HIDTA and Dave Gilbert, who recently announced his retirement from the Lake Cumberland Area Drug Task Force. Rogers has served Kentucky's 5th Congressional District since 1981. During that time, he has focused on ways to battle the scourge of drugs in southern and eastern Kentucky and across the nation. In 2003, he helped launch Operation UNITE, a non-profit organization utilizing a three-pronged approach to impact the drug epidemic through investigations, treatment and education. He co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, implemented the Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to launch electronic tracking systems across the country, and communicates regularly with the FDA, ONDCP, medical professionals and law enforcement agencies about ways to improve efforts to battle the epidemic. ###
10.14.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) supported the passage of bi-partisan legislation to halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) job-killing regulatory agenda. The Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act, H.R. 2273, establishes minimum federal requirements for the management and disposal of coal ash that will protect public health, ensure safety of the environment, and protect American jobs. It was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 267-144 and now awaits consideration by the Senate. “From day one, the Obama Administration has attempted to shut down coal mines, coal plants, and yes, even environmentally-friendly coal waste. Today, we said, ‘Enough is enough’ by passing the bi-partisan Coal Residuals and Reuse Management Act,” stated Rogers, a member of the Congressional Coal Caucus and an original co-sponsor of H.R. 2273. “This bill ensures that coal will continue to be an affordable part of our country’s energy supply, while also ensuring that leftover ‘coal ash’ can be recycled for use in our roads, bridges and buildings. This legislation protects public health and the environment while also keeping our country’s lights on. It’s a win-win, and I’m hopeful that the President will sign it into law. For our region and our Nation’s future, this Administration’s war on coal must stop.” The EPA’s proposed regulations to govern the disposal of coal ash under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act is a prime example of the Obama Administration’s needless meddling. In June, EPA proposed two alternatives for federal regulation of coal ash, either of which would drive up electricity and construction prices and cost jobs. Further, the classification of coal ash as a “hazardous waste,” as proposed by EPA, would threaten the “beneficial reuse” of coal ash in eco-friendly products like cement, wallboard and shingles that are used in our bridges, roads and buildings at low costs. If EPA regulations are brought into effect, hundreds of millions of tons of coal ash would need to be disposed. This would not only cause greater costs for consumers and the environment, it would result in the loss of approximately 300,000 jobs. H.R. 2273 puts forth an effective, bi-partisan alternative that minimizes burdensome regulations. The Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act takes a new approach to federal environmental regulation by empowering States to utilize existing municipal solid waste regulations for the management of coal ash. This approach will ensure the safe disposal and reuse of coal ash without overwhelming state operating costs or placing unnecessary regulations on electric generation, energy costs and the economy. Passage of this bill will help to restore confidence in our private sector so that the economy can grow and Americans can return to work. Rogers has been a leader in combating EPA’s regulatory overreach, corresponding with President Obama and EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson about these wrong-headed coal ash regulations on three occasions since June 2009. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers will continue to challenge overreaching regulations and fight for coal miners and their families to bring jobs and economic development to Kentucky. ### Click here to download an mp3 audio statement from Congressman Rogers Runs 50-seconds mp3 verbatim: "From day one, the Obama Administration has attempted to shut down coal mines, coal plants, and yes, even environmentally-friendly coal waste recycling across our country. "Today, we said, “Enough is enough.” By a bi-partisan vote, the House approved a bill that stops another wrong-headed EPA rule which threatens coal reuse while costing cash-strapped communities millions. "The Coal Residuals and Reuse Management Bill helps ensure coal remains a strong part of our energy policy by ensuring leftover “coal ash” can be turned into low-cost road, bridge and building materials. It’s a win-win energy strategy. "I’m proud to stand with coal mining families and coal-dependent communities and support this bill."
10.04.2011	One month after the Sept. 1 disaster declaration for Bell, Knox and Perry counties, the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency remain focused on the recovery mission following June’s storms. The following is a snapshot of the disaster assistance to date: 741 individuals and households have registered for FEMA disaster assistance. $2,293,939 has been approved for affected individuals and households; of that o $1,992,829 has been approved for housing assistance. This money can be used for temporary housing as well as repair and replacement of permanent housing; and o $301,109 has been approved for other needs assistance. This includes money for necessities such as clothing and household items, disaster-related medical and dental costs, car repairs that are related to the disaster as well as for moving and storage expenses. $1,219,100 in low-interest disaster loans has been approved by the U.S. Small Business Administration for homeowners, renters and businesses. 612 visits were made to three disaster recovery centers which closed on Sept. 28 where survivors met face-to-face with FEMA and SBA recovery specialists. 633 properties have been inspected for damages by inspectors for FEMA. 2,057 residences, businesses, community-based organizations, schools, town halls and houses of worship were visited by community relations field specialists. 200 volunteers from many houses of worship, faith-based organizations, community groups and nonprofit agencies have demonstrated their devotion to helping others on a daily basis since the disaster struck in June. New groups of volunteers continue to help with the ongoing disaster recovery effort and many opportunities are available by contacting Kentucky Volunteer Organizations Active in Disaster. Seven counties were eligible to apply for FEMA’s Public Assistance program including Bell, Breathitt, Knott, Knox, Lee, Magoffin and Perry counties. Funds were made available for state and local governments under a federal cost-share reimbursement program to help pay for emergency protective measures and reimbursement for repair and replacement of infrastructure such as roads, bridges and public utilities Additional information about SBA loans is available through SBA's Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center by calling (800) 659-2955 or TTY (800) 877-8339, emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov or visiting SBA's web site at www.sba.gov. Applications also can be filled out on SBA's secure web site at disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Residents of Bell, Knox and Perry counties should act soon as the October 31 deadline for registering for FEMA and Commonwealth aid is less than four weeks away. To register with FEMA, call 800-621-3362 or TTY 800-462-7585. If you use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 800-621-3362. Operators are multilingual. Calls are answered seven days a week from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. CDT. Register with FEMA online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. By smartphone or tablet, use m.fema.gov. FEMA’s App for android phones can be downloaded at https://market.android.com/details?id=gov.fema.mobile.android. . By smartphone or tablet, use . FEMA’s App for android phones can be downloaded at https://market.android.com/details?id=gov.fema.mobile.android. Additional information about this disaster is available at www.fema.gov and www.kyem.ky.gov. and . FEMA and KYEM can be followed on Facebook and Twitter. FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). For TTY call 800-462-7585. FEMA’s temporary housing assistance and grants for public transportation expenses, medical and dental expenses, and funeral and burial expenses do not require individuals to apply for an SBA loan. However, applicants who receive SBA loan applications must submit them to SBA loan officers to be eligible for assistance that covers personal property, vehicle repair or replacement, and moving and storage expenses. ###
10.04.2011	On Monday, October 3, U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) was honored at The Washington Center for Internships and Academic Seminars' Annual Gala at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C. Congressman Rogers received the 2011 Pillar Award for Leadership in recognition of his outstanding efforts in southern and eastern Kentucky and in the Congress. Tiffany Thacker, a graduate of the University of Pikeville, presented Rogers with the award. "Top notch education and skills training are at the heart of continuing to grow our region and I’ve long endeavored to open up meaningful educational opportunities for our young people," said Rogers. "Internships, work-study programs, and practical learning experiences provide students with real world tools to succeed outside the classroom. I’m honored to be recognized by the Washington Center, and in particular to join University of Pikeville, EKU and others in celebrating the hard work of our young people." Congressman Rogers, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Governor Juan José Sabines Guerrero of the State of Chiapas, Mexico were honored for their continued support to strengthen and foster academic internship experiences in D.C. and abroad. "Since The Washington Center opened its doors in 1975, over 50,000 students from universities across the country and abroad have had career changing experiences interning in the nation’s capital," said Mike Smith, president of The Washington Center. "It is individuals like Senator Cantwell, Representative Rogers and Governor Juan José Sabines Guerrero that make the experience truly valuable and memorable. I join our university partners, alumni, current and future students in thanking them for their participation in the program." Among the national award winners for 2011, Kentucky University System received this year’s Academic Affairs Award for their continued partnership with The Washington Center and strong commitment to advancing experiential education. According to the Washington Center, 500 students from Kentucky have participated in various TWC program. Proceeds from the event will help fund $5 million in scholarships distributed to Washington Center students each year. About The Washington Center: The Washington Center for Internships and Academic seminars is an independent, nonprofit organization that serves hundreds of colleges and universities in the United States and other countries by providing selected students challenging opportunities to work and learn in Washington, D.C. for academic credit. The largest program of its kind, The Washington Center has close to 50,000 alumni who have become leaders in numerous professions and nations around the world. It was established in 1975. ###
10.04.2011	On Sunday, October 2nd, U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) attended a homecoming ceremony to honor Congressional Medal of Honor Recipient, Sgt. Dakota Meyer at Lindsey Wilson College's Blue Raider Stadium in Columbia, Kentucky. Rogers joined U.S. Congressman Ed Whitfield (KY-01), State Senate President David L. Williams, State Representative John "Bam" Carney, local dignitaries and college officials to welcome Sgt. Dakota Meyer home. "Sgt. Meyer reminds me of the famous World War I hero, Sgt. Alvin York, who was also raised as a country boy with strong values. Someone who risked his own life to save his comrades, yet remains humble and prefers no recognition for his bravery," said Rogers. "Sgt. Meyer epitomizes Kentucky's valor, small town decency and courage. It was an honor to witness the prestigious Medal of Honor Ceremony in Washington, DC, but its also great to be a part of this hero's welcome home." During the ceremony, Meyer received an American Flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol in his honor, at the request of Congressman Rogers. Meyer also received a copy of Congressman Rogers' extension of remarks recorded in the official Congressional Record. Sgt. Meyer is responsible for saving the lives of 13 fellow Marines and Army soldiers and 23 Afghan soldiers in Afghanistan two years ago. "It's a great honor to get, but there's a heavy burden that comes with it. It's a huge price paid," said Sgt. Meyer. "I'm just here to represent veterans and any man or woman who wears a uniform is a hero." Meyer has issued a "Challenge to America" to raise $1 million for the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation by its 50th Anniversary on May 28, 2012. The foundation provides need-based scholarships for U.S. military families. Photo cutline: Congressman Rogers presented Sgt. Dakota Meyer with an American Flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol in his honor Photo Courtesy: Duane Bonifer/Lindsey Wilson College #### LINKS: Click here to read Congressman Rogers' Extension of Remarks in the Congressional Record, recorded in the Library of Congress Click here to read Congressman Rogers' op-ed in honor of Dakota Meyer, "Kentucky's Heroic Son" Click here to visit the U.S. Marine website dedicated to Dakota Meyer.
09.27.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) supports the passage of bi-partisan legislation to put the brakes on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) job-killing regulatory agenda. The Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation (TRAIN) Act, H.R. 2401, requires federal officials to closely examine and consider the cumulative impacts of EPA rules on jobs, energy prices, electric reliability and America’s overall global economic competitiveness. “From day one, this Administration has taken dead aim at the coal industry which is part of the lifeblood of Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The President doesn’t want us to mine coal, he doesn’t want us to burn coal, and he doesn’t have a legitimate low-cost energy alternative to grow Kentucky businesses and help working families,” stated Rogers, a co-sponsor of H.R. 2401. “Americans across the country attribute EPA's burdensome regulations with disastrous effects on our nation’s economic recovery. The TRAIN Act will bring to light the true costs to our economy and our energy security, and help our job-creators emerge from this paralyzing web of regulatory red-tape. We’ve got to put our people back to work.” Since 2009, EPA has unveiled major revisions to regulations under the Clean Air Act, tightening nearly every environmental rule on its books. Because of their economic significance and complexity, several of these regulations have been collectively dubbed “The Train Wreck.” Recent studies indicate that just four of these rules – Utility MACT, Cross-State Air Pollution (Transport), Coal Ash and Cooling Water Intake Structure – together could cost the U.S. economy $21 billion and 183,000 jobs annually until 2020. In addition, utility rates are expected to increase by as much as 19 percent in some areas of the country if these changes are implemented. One utility company with service in Kentucky has indicated that compliance with EPA regulations would force the early retirement of five coal-fired power plants and the net loss of 600 jobs with annual wages totaling approximately $40 million. The TRAIN Act would establish an interagency council to focus on the cumulative impacts of these regulations at a time when job growth remains flat and energy prices are on the rise. In addition, the legislation would delay the final date for the Utility MACT and Transport rules, which limit power plant emissions. Taken together, without changes, these two rules are expected to result in a net loss of 1.44 million jobs by 2020. H.R. 2401 was passed by the House of Representatives on a bi-partisan basis (249-169), and now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. Through his role as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has continued to challenge EPA on the merits of its regulatory agenda. The FY 2012 Interior-Environment Appropriations Bill reported by his Committee sends a strong message that the EPA’s “legislation by regulation” and commandeering of congressional authority is opposed by a strong bi-partisan contingent of lawmakers. The bill restricts funding for EPA personnel in order to return the Agency to a better working order and facilitate a more effective government, and takes explicit action to address EPA’s wrong-headed greenhouse gas regulations, its hault on mining permits in Appalachia, its attack on the cement and utility industries through unsolicited revisions to the Clean Air Act, and its obstruction of oil and gas permitting in the Outer Continental Shelf. ###
09.27.2011	U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined local officials in Floyd County on Monday, September 26th to break ground for the new Martin Volunteer Fire Department as part of the Martin Redevelopment project designed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The project includes flood safe redevelopment, mandatory floodplain evacuation, voluntary flood proofing and acquisition, and relocation of public facilities. “The City of Martin is about to be re-born. Families and businesses in Martin have suffered far too long from devastating floods,” said Rogers. “It is fitting that many of the volunteers who answered emergency calls during those storms be housed in the first facility to relocate to the new site.” Rogers joined Col. Robert D. Peterson, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Huntington District; Thomasine Robinson, Mayor of Martin; R.D. “Doc” Marshall, Floyd County Judge Executive; and local residents to break ground on the first of several facilities for the Town of Martin. Two additional public facilities are slated for relocation to the new site, the Martin Town Hall and Police Station, as well as the Floyd County Alternative School. “Thanks to the partnership of Congressman Rogers, the Kentucky Department of Local Government, the Corps of Engineers and the people of Martin, numerous houses and businesses have been removed from the floodway,” said Col. Peterson. "This is an example of a core value that the leadership of Martin shares with the Corps of Engineers--public safety is a priority." During the ceremony Rogers honored Assistant Fire Chief Jimmy Rudder for dedicating more than 40 years of service to the Martin Volunteer Fire Department. Rudder received a “Hal Rogers Difference Maker Award” for his exemplary leadership and dedication to the City of Martin and surrounding communities. Rudder plans to continue his service in the new fire station when it opens next year. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
09.10.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) recently received an honorary doctorate from Coastal Carolina University (CCU). During a special ceremony on September 10, 2011 at CCU’s Wall Auditorium, Rogers received the honorary degree of Doctor of Public Service for dedicating 31 years of service as a Member of Congress. “I am honored to receive this prestigious doctorate from Coastal Carolina University,” said Rogers. “I essentially have two jobs, the concentrated work I do for the people of Southern and Eastern Kentucky and the role I serve to our great nation. Partnerships are vital to progress and it has been a pleasure to work with leaders from South Carolina and the University.” “We are pleased to honor Congressman Rogers for his role as an ambassador for economic development, job creation, and preservation of the nation’s treasured lands.” said David A. DeCenzo, President of Coastal Carolina University. “The University is grateful for his efforts in strengthening our nation’s fiscal integrity and national security, as well as his ardent support of agriculture and building transportation systems that have had a direct impact on our state and our region.” Located in Conway, South Carolina, CCU is a liberal arts university with approximate 8,700 students in over 55 areas of study. CCU is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award the baccalaureate degree and master's degree. With the conferring of this Doctor of Public Service degree, Rogers has received seven honorary degrees. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
09.02.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced the addition of individual assistance for eligible residents in Bell, Knox and Perry Counties who were devastated by severe storms, tornadoes and flooding that occurred June 19-23, 2011. In July, the major disaster declaration (FEMA-4008-DR) triggered the release of federal funding for public assistance (PA) in Bell, Breathitt, Knott, Knox, Lee, Magoffin and Perry Counties. The amendment to the major distaster declaration releases funding for individual assistance (IA) which can include temporary housing assistance for eligible families such as rental assistance and repair assistance. Individuals in the Bell, Knox and Perry Counties are encouraged to register with FEMA. "Families in Southern and Eastern Kentucky were left with immense damage from the storms, losing their homes and nearly everything they owned,” said Rogers. “While the public assistance jump-started the recovery and rebuilding process in seven counties, this funding for individuals will bring the anticipated relief for families who desperately need financial assistance to move forward.” All counties in the Commonwealth are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The program is available to state and local governments and certain private non-profit organizations for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. How to register for assistance: Telephone: 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY at 800-462-7585. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) can call 800-621-3362. Internet: Individuals may apply for disaster assistance online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. For smartphones or tablets, use m.fema.gov. FEMA's App for android phones, can be downloaded at market.android.com/details?id=gov.fema.mobile.android ###
08.27.2011	House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05), House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee Chairwoman Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) today released the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) invoked an "immediate needs posture" indicating that funding for the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) has reached dangerously low levels. In addition, the DRF could be drained further with the added possibility of yet more funding needs as Hurricane Irene approaches the eastern seaboard. Due to the low funding level reached in the DRF today, the agency is now required to fund only "immediate needs" that impact lives and public health – otherwise these recovery activities could be interrupted indefinitely. Currently, the FEMA’s DRF has $792 billion in its coffers. This level is dangerously low given the unpredictability of disasters that may occur throughout the remainder of the fiscal year. Although the House Appropriations Committee has repeatedly asked the Obama Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to address the availability and expenditure rate of disaster relief funds since January, the Executive Branch has not taken any steps to avoid this unfortunate predicament. "Time and time again, the Administration has ignored the obvious funding needs of the Disaster Relief Fund, purposefully and irresponsibly underfunding the account and putting families and communities who have suffered from terrible disasters on the back burner. Now the Administration has let the fund reach critically low levels, putting continued recovery as risk, without a plan for the future or a clear method for dealing with new disasters such as the oncoming Hurricane Irene," House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt echoed Rogers’ remarks, saying: "Shoring up the Disaster Relief Fund by insisting in ‘truth in budgeting’ has been a key priority for me this year, but some in Washington struggle with ensuring the DRF has adequate resources. Over 87 days have passed since the House passed the FY12 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which included $2.65 billion for FY12 on top of an additional $1 billion for FY11 for the DRF. Further, over 39 days ago, I sent a letter to Secretary Napolitano encouraging the Administration to ensure ongoing recovery efforts continue uninterrupted. However, even though the President himself said that ‘we are going to do everything we can to help these communities rebuild,’ the rhetoric has not matched reality and the Disaster Relief Fund is running out of money." Financial Services Subcommittee Chairwoman Jo Ann Emerson – who hails from a disaster-stricken area of Missouri, also expressed her frustration with the inadequate level of funding: "FEMA is running on fumes as they help those recovering from the devastating floods and tornadoes earlier this year. The House has done its job to boost FEMA’s resources for ongoing recovery and future disasters, but the Senate is sitting on their hands instead of passing the Homeland Security Appropriations bill that will provide critical supplemental funding. What’s more, we are in the middle of hurricane season, and with the continued threat of new disasters, we risk leaving those already affected in the lurch" Emerson said. All three Appropriations leaders also expressed their concern for the people and communities in the path of hurricane Irene, saying, "Our thoughts and prayers are going out for the health and safety of those who will be impacted by this storm." The House Appropriations Committee has repeatedly attempted to address the shortfall in the DRF. The recent fiscal year 2011 federal spending bill, which passed in April, included an additional $700 million above the FY10 level for the DRF – a total of $2.65 billion. After devastating tornadoes and floods ravaged the South and Midwest, straining the DRF’s already limited resources, the House passed H.R. 2017, the Fiscal Year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which included $1 billion in emergency funding for the DRF and an additional $2.65 billion for the fund for FY12. Although it has been more than 87 days since the House approved this bill, the Senate has yet to take action on it. #####
08.19.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) unannounced tour of Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The regional administrator, Gwen Keyes Fleming and EPA administrator, Lisa Jackson’s senior advisor for environmental justice, Lisa Garcia, along with staff members from the Region 4 office reportedly made stops in Manchester, Vicco, Whitesburg and Lynch. "I'm thrilled EPA is suddenly taking an interest in southern and eastern Kentucky. I'm hopeful this means my many congressional requests for answers, Congress' repeated calls for restraint, the petitions of coal miners to stop the attacks, and pleas from mining families to end the permit moratorium will be addressed. Unfortunately, this looks like a blatantly political listening tour from people they only want to hear from. I invite them to stay a little longer, now that we know they’re in town, so they can talk with water quality experts on how our region's water is improving and tour the reclaimed surface mines that are now home to wild turkey, deer and elk. They could also visit the hospitals, shopping centers and other economic development projects that are now sitting on flat land. Before they leave, I know several thousand coal miners that have been waiting for a chance to chat with them about their livelihoods, their families’ well-being and the job-killing regulations of this Administration.” ###
08.01.2011	House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers has released the following statement on the expected vote tonight on legislation to end the debt ceiling crisis. The legislation makes an initial reduction of over $900 billion in discretionary spending over ten years, requires Congress to find additional savings of over $1.5 trillion, and puts in motion a balanced budget amendment to help rein in the nation’s debt and encourage economic growth. “This bill makes a large down payment on our nation’s financial future, cutting more than $900 billion over the next decade to help get our budgets back into balance. This bipartisan compromise will help us change the nation’s spending trajectory toward greater fiscal responsibility, and I praise Speaker Boehner for his commitment to securing the best deal possible for American taxpayers. “As the Speaker has said, this bill is not perfect. Tough choices will have to be made, particularly when it comes to defense and national security priorities, but shared sacrifice will bring shared results. This bill will make necessary spending cuts now and provide a framework for future reductions that will bring common sense into federal budgeting, provide stability and certainty in our marketplace, and allow Main Street businesses to create jobs and build a stronger economy. “The Appropriations Committee has already started making tough decisions on spending, and will continue under the spending limits and guidelines provided in this bill. So far this year, the Committee has trimmed billions of dollars and imposed strict spending reductions so we don’t leave our children with mountains of debt. We will continue to work in this vein, in a bipartisan and bicameral manner, to complete our Appropriations work and pass responsible, sustainable, and timely funding legislation. #### For more House Appropriations News, visit http://appropriations.house.gov Contact: House Appropriations Communications Director, Jennifer Hing at jhing@mail.house.gov
07.25.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced President Obama has authorized a federal disaster declaration for seven counties in Southern and Eastern Kentucky that were devastated by severe storms, tornadoes and flooding that occurred June 19-23, 2011. Immediately following the request from Governor Steve Beshear, Congressman Rogers joined U.S. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and U.S. Senator Rand Paul in signing a letter to President Obama urging this declaration. “Far too often, unexpected storms rip through the nation, leaving behind costly repairs that our families and local government simply cannot afford. Without federal assistance for storm damage of this magnitude, our rural communities would struggle to recover,” said Rogers. “This deadly storm took much more from our communities than can ever be replaced and while there are many challenges to overcome, this declaration is a step in the right direction.” Disaster declaration #FEMA-4008-DR designates the following counties for Public Assistance (PA): Bell, Breathitt, Knott, Knox, Lee, Magoffin, and Perry Counties. Public assistance is available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. All counties in the Commonwealth are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The program is available to state and local governments and certain private non-profit organizations for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. Local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster, FEMA-4008-DR, and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. ###
07.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved funding for the continued rehabilitation of Wolf Creek Dam. H.R. 2354, the FY12 Energy & Water Appropriations Bill includes $132 million in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ construction budget for ongoing repairs at the dam. The legislation now moves to the Senate for consideration. “Fixing Wolf Creek Dam is a national priority and I will continue to support these ongoing repairs. I’m pleased we were able to fully fund this effort, even in these difficult budget times,” said Rogers. “Like my constituents, I’m frustrated by continued delays and engineering set-backs which keep pushing the completion date further into the future. With the challenges at Critical Area 1 seemingly resolved, I expect the Corps to move full steam ahead to make necessary remediations and raise the pool at scenic Lake Cumberland, the crown jewel of southern and eastern Kentucky. Thousands of visitors annually take advantage of the many recreational opportunities afforded by the lake, but with the economy still in a tailspin, the sooner we can put these repairs behind us, the sooner our local businesses can ramp back up.” The Wolf Creek Dam project is the top dam safety project for the Corps in the nation and in July 2008, the Corps awarded a $341 million joint venture contract to Treviicos-Soletanche JV for the construction of a 4200-foot concrete barrier wall at the dam. Treviicos-Soletanche has nearly completed the installation of a Protective Concrete Embankment Wall (PCEW), which is the first stage of barrier wall construction and which will increase dam safety during the remainder of construction. The Corps has finalized Barrier Wall Installation in several technique areas along the dam. In late May, the Corps resumed work in Critical Area 1 with a revised construction method to address structural concerns in that specific area of the dam. Once the President signs this legislation into law, over $522 million in federal funding will have been dedicated toward this project. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
07.14.2011	Today U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined U.S. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and U.S. Senator Rand Paul in signing a urging him to approve Governor Steve Beshear's request for a major disaster declaration as a result of the severe storms, flooding, strong winds and tornadoes beginning on June 19, 2011 and continuing in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. "The deadly storms and high waters that ripped through our region have left families devastated and communities searching for ways to keep up with the staggering debris removal and repair costs," said Rogers. "It is vital that this request be approved in order for our rural communities to recover and rebuild. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families whose homes and businesses were devastated by flood waters, but I’m proud of the many first responders and even neighbors who worked diligently to rescue flood victims across southern and eastern Kentucky, including three trapped coal miners in Bell County. Their bravery reflects the steeled nature of our people and I applaud all of those who dedicated hours on the ground to ensure their safe return to their families. Every business and individual who donated cleaning supplies, heavy equipment, volunteer hours, food and the like to enhance the recovery process is to be commended for your selfless acts of kindness in a time of great despair." The federal disaster declaration specifically requests the following: Individual Assistance for Bell, Breathitt, Knox, Lee, and Perry Counties; Public Assistance for Bell, Breathitt, Knox, Lee, Magoffin, and Perry Counties; Hazard Mitigation for the entire Commonwealth. The Governor further requested Public Assistance (Categories C-G) at 100 percent Federal funding. The letter to President Obama reads: The Honorable Barack Obama The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500-0005 Dear President Obama: We are writing to bring to your attention a letter from Governor Steve Beshear requesting a major disaster declaration for the Commonwealth of Kentucky. We respectfully urge you to give this request the timely and serious consideration that it deserves. On June 19, 2011, devastating storms and flooding again swept through the Commonwealth of Kentucky. As a result, seven (7) counties in Southeastern Kentucky suffered extensive damage from the severe storms and flash flooding. The Governor has already issued a disaster declaration for these counties under state law and is now requesting federal assistance. As the Governor conveyed in his letter, the Commonwealth has surpassed the $5.2 million expenditure threshold required for consideration of federal disaster assistance in accordance with provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Timely and serious consideration of the Governor’s disaster declaration request on your part would aid Kentucky communities so severely affected by this most recent disaster. Thank you in advance for your prompt action on this matter. Should you need additional information, please do not hesitate to contact our offices. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- To view photos of the flooded region documented by Rogers' field representatives, visit http://www.halrogers.house.gov/photos and click on the album labeled 'Regional Photos'. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
07.13.2011	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has passed H.R. 2018, the Clean Water Cooperative Federalism Act of 2011. H.R. 2018 aims to rein in the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) one-size-fits-all regulatory overreach into federally-approved state water quality programs under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The bill reasserts the authority of each State to make decisions relating to the individual State’s water quality standards and brings needed regulatory certainty by restricting EPA’s ability to second-guess, micromanage, or delay a State’s permit decisions. “Time and again, we’ve seen the bureaucrats at EPA overrun longstanding practices, overstep state authorities, and overreach without congressional authority, putting good-paying jobs in the Commonwealth in jeopardy. Whether a coal miner in Harlan County or a farmer in Pulaski County, there is near universal support for stopping EPA. This bill turns the tables and tells EPA to back off,” stated Rogers, an original co-sponsor to H.R. 2018. “I’m pleased to see the House put another shot across the bow of EPA, but our job in stopping this bureaucracy and Administrator Lisa Jackson has just begun.” Congress intended the states and EPA to implement the Clean Water Act as a federal-state partnership where the states and EPA act as co-regulators, also called a federal-state cooperative system of regulation. The CWA established a system where states can receive EPA approval to implement water quality programs, and under the CWA, 47 states, including Kentucky, have been so authorized to issue and enforce permits. The Kentucky Department for Natural Resources has been upholding strong standards for water quality in the Commonwealth for years, and yet, on May 11, 2011, Kentucky Secretary of the Energy and Environment Cabinet, Len Peters, testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to express growing dismay at EPA’s take-over of state water programs. H.R. 2018 restores the cooperative balance between the States and the federal government to ensure Kentucky’s natural resources and economic development are preserved. The bill passed with bi-partisan support and now will go to the Senate for consideration. On a related front, the House Appropriations Committee Tuesday passed the FY12 Interior-EPA Appropriations Bill and included a number of provisions aimed at slowing or stopping EPA regulatory actions. This bill sends a strong message that the EPA’s “legislation by regulation” and commandeering of congressional authority is opposed by a strong bi-partisan contingent of lawmakers – the legislation caps EPA personnel and takes explicit action to address EPA’s wrong-headed greenhouse gas regulations, its de facto moratorium on mining permits in Appalachia, its attack on the cement and utility industries through unsolicited revisions to the Clean Air Act, and its obstruction of oil and gas permitting in the Outer Continental Shelf. “The actions taken in this funding bill related to the EPA are for good purposes – to rein in excessive spending and stop job-killing regulations,” Rogers said. “While the original mission of EPA was to maintain the health of our citizens and prevent future environmental degradation, this agency has become the poster child for this Administration’s widespread regulatory overreach and is as a result putting mining, manufacturing, and farming families out of business at a time when some Kentucky counties have 18 percent unemployment. Americans across the country pinpoint harsh regulatory burdens as a major factor in slow job growth and discouraging job creation. We’ve got to put people back to work, not more dubious regulations on the books.” For a complete list of accepted amendments to the legislation, visit the Appropriations Committee website at www.appropriations.house.gov. This legislation awaits further consideration in the U.S. House of Representatives. ####
07.12.2011	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded an $80,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant to the London-Corbin Airport-Magee Field for the installation of new airfield guidance signs. “It is vital to keep our rural airports, like the London-Corbin Airport in good operating condition to provide safe air travel for our communities,” said Rogers. “I am pleased to see that the Department of Transportation has invested in the Cumberland Valley region by ensuring the required signs are replaced to enhance aircraft safety.” The replacement of airfield guidance signs is required to enhance aircraft visual guidance and enhance safety of aircraft movements. With 77 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, jets, glider plans and a helicopter, the London-Corbin Airport serves more than 500 aircraft a month—60% general aviation, 25% military and 14% air taxi. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
07.12.2011	Today U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to improve the Wendell H. Ford Airport. The $208,948 Federal Aviation Administration grant will provide funding for the rehabilitation of a pavement depression stretching across a runway and taxiway. “It is vital to keep our rural airports, like the Wendell H. Ford Airport in good operating condition to provide safe air travel for our communities,” said Rogers. “I am pleased to see that the Department of Transportation has invested in the Kentucky River region by ensuring the pavement failures at the airport are repaired.” These grant funds will correct pavement failures resulting in sizeable depressions in runway 14/32 and the taxiway. The Wendell H. Ford Airport is approximately 8 miles north of Hazard, Kentucky. More than 30 aircraft are based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, as well as a full-time Medi Vac helicopter. The airport averages 168 aircraft operations per week, 45% transient general aviation, 39% local general aviation, 13% air tax and 2% military. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.12.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers’ (KY-05) District Director, Bob Mitchell was recently honored by the Mountain Laurel Boy Scouts of America with the first annual Daniel Boone Visionary Award during an annual banquet at the Corbin Technology Center. “The difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is how you use them,” said Rogers, describing the optomistic philosophy of his long-time friend and advisor for more than 30 years. “And Mitchell never quits. He always finds a way to get something done.” Boy Scout Troop 572 kicked off the event with the presentation of colors, followed by presenations of Kentucky Senate and House Citations honoring Mitchell's dedication and service to southern and eastern Kentucky for three decades as Rogers' right hand in the Fifth Congressional District. Rogers presented the first-ever Daniel Boone Visionary Award to Mitchell, crediting a large portion of the region's transformation to his leadership, ingenuity and tenacity. Rogers commended Mitchell for his leadership on projects like flood control along the Cumberland River, transportation enhancements, the Cumberland Gap Tunnel, economic development, job growth, as well as the region's environmental education initiative, PRIDE and the anti-drug intiative, Operation UNITE. "Rogers' famous advice to local leaders is to 'plan your work and work your plan' and I'm honored to have worked through the plans of many monumental ideas that our great Congressman envisioned for the region," said Mitchell, crediting Rogers as the guardian angel of southern and eastern Kentucky. "He planted the seeds of progress and we have watered those seeds to help projects like PRIDE and UNITE grow into what they are today." Together, Rogers and Mitchell commended the Boy Scouts of America's Blue Grass Council for its commitment to leadership and citizenship across the region. The Mountain Laurel Boy Scout District serves more than 1,000 youth in 45 units in Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel and Whitley Counties.
07.06.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced less than two weeks remain for families affected by the severe storms, tornadoes and floods that ravaged southern and eastern Kentucky counties between April 12 and May 20 to register with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster assistance. The FEMA registration deadline for this disaster (DR-1976-KY) is July 18, 2011. "So far, more than $7.8 million in individual assistance has been approved for the spring disaster," said Rogers. "Registration is the first step to receiving a wide range of possible assistance, but time is running out and I don't want any families to miss an opportunity for help." FEMA disaster assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, replacement of essential household items and clothing, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Registration also is necessary to apply for SBA low interest disaster loans to cover losses not covered by insurance. The July 18th registration deadline is for residents of 22 designated counties. The counties eligible for Individual Assistance (IA) in the Fifth Congressional District include Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence and Pike. Public Assistance (PA) is also available to the following counties in the Fifth Congressional District: Bath, Clay, Floyd, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Lawrence, Lee, Magoffin, Menifee, Morgan, Owsley, Perry and Rowan Counties. All counties in the Commonwealth of Kentucky are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. To date: • 1,824 Kentuckians in designated counties have registered for FEMA assistance. • 1,024 applicants have been approved for aid as of June 30. • 1,504 inspections of damaged properties have been conducted, including 63 in the last seven days. • 1,205 U.S. Small Business Administration loan applications have been issued. • 60 SBA loans have been approved, totaling $3,115,900. • 42 Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA) claims have been filed with the Kentucky Education and Workforce Cabinet , Office of Employment and Training. • 29 DUA claims have been approved as of June 30. To register or to have questions answered about FEMA disaster assistance applications, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 800-462-7585. Registration is also available online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Information about the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and the disaster loan application is available by calling 800-659-2955 or visiting SBA online at www.SBA.gov. Additional information about this disaster (DR-1976-KY) is available at www.fema.gov and www.kyem.ky.gov. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
06.17.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement calling for the two accused Iraqi terrorists, 30-year-old Waad Ramadan Alwan and 23-year-old Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, to be sent to Guantanamo Bay for military trial. The two men, who police linked to al-Queda, were arrested in Bowling Green, Kentucky last month. “These men should be transferred to Guantanamo Bay for military trial, period. Clearly, these two are not commonplace criminal defendants worthy of the same legal rights as American citizens, but qualify as military combatants. There is evidence that they took up arms against our men and women on the battlefield in Iraq, devised IEDs to maim and kill our warfighters, exploited our weak immigration system, and purposed to support our military enemy and within miles of Fort Campbell and Fort Knox. This is simply war and aggression by other means and the Administration needs to get this right and honor those who have served under our flag by sending Hammadi and Alwan to Cuba.” ###
06.17.2011	U.S Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) has joined his colleagues in the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in introducing bipartisan legislation to strengthen the battle against the nation’s fastest growing drug problem. The legislation is the first of its kind requiring prescribers to receive a minimum standard of education before issuing highly addictive pain medications. “We are on the brink of losing a generation of young people to powerful prescription painkillers,” said Rogers. “Drug abuse kills about three people in our region every day, taking more lives than automobile accidents in Kentucky. Operation UNITE has made a huge positive impact in Southern and Eastern Kentucky through investigations, treatment and education and we have learned that one of our most powerful tools lies in education. Physicians need to be fully aware of the risks associated with the drugs they’re prescribing, and also be on the lookout for signs of addiction in their patients. This bill is an important step in the right direction.” The Ryan Creedon Act of 2011 (H.R. 2119) was named after a young man in California, who suffered from a chronic addiction to OxyContin that ultimately resulted in his death. The bill would put in place new measures to ensure that prescribers of powerful pain medications receive a minimum standard of education before issuing the drugs. No such national standard currently exists. Currently all doctors, dentists, physician’s assistants, nurse practitioners and others who prescribe controlled substances are first required to register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and renew their registration every few years. This legislation would require healthcare professionals to initially be educated on the risks associated with controlled substances prior to DEA granting prescribing authorities. “The lack of education on addiction and controlled substances in the medical community played a huge role in enabling my son’s disease of addiction, which resulted in his death,” said Kathy Creedon, Ryan Creedon’s mother. “It is time that doctors realize that a few words written on a prescription pad have the power to devastate lives. I feel the passing of this legislation is vital to bringing awareness to the epidemic of irresponsible prescribing and the impact it has on our communities. This bill has the ability to save lives.” Rogers partnered with the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse Co-Chairs Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Stephen Lynch (MA-9) to introduce the legislation. “Prescription drug abuse affects everyone in America, and the problem is only getting worse. Soon, drug overdose will be the leading cause of accidental death, and we need to take steps now to ensure that medical professionals who are devoted to helping and treating us are not unwittingly contributing to a much larger problem,” Bono Mack said. “This legislation takes the necessary steps to ensure that only doctors who are knowledgeable about the abuse and addiction risks of these powerful medications can prescribe them.” “These are powerful and addictive drugs so it only makes sense that the medical professionals prescribing them would have some basic education and awareness of substance abuse. This bill ensures that those prescribing these pain medications have an understanding of how they can potentially impact their patients,” Congressman Lynch said. “While prescription drug abuse continues to have a devastating effect on communities and families across the country, this legislation will help in the fight against this epidemic.” The Ryan Creedon Act, which would have no cost to taxpayers, would have the added benefit of combating a problem that studies now show costs the U.S. economy as much as some chronic illnesses such as Diabetes. Rogers and Bono Mack established the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug abuse to shed light on the problem of prescription drug abuse and to unite like-minded policy-makers dedicated to the development of innovative and effective policy solutions. According to the DEA, illegal prescription drug diversion is now our nation’s fastest growing drug threat. This influential, bipartisan coalition of legislators is also working together on the Oxy Abuse Act of 2011. The Stop Oxy Abuse Act (H.R. 1316) would revise FDA classifications to ensure that oxycodone painkillers are prescribed only for severe pain. #####
06.01.2011	Today U.S. Rep. Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) announced more counties in Southern and Eastern Kentucky have been added to the FEMA Disaster Declaration (FEMA-1976-DR) stemming from the severe storms that rapidly moved through the region April 22, 2011 through May 20, 2011. Federal funds will be available to help some individuals and communities recover from the damage left behind by the severe storms, tornadoes and flooding. "The people of Southern and Eastern Kentucky are still trying to recover from the devastating effects of the severe storms, but federal financial assistance is on the way," said Rogers. "I encourage eligible families and businesses to be diligent in documenting damage and to apply for assistance as soon as possible." The following counties in Southern and Eastern Kentucky are now eligible for federal financial assistance: Individual Assistance (IA) is available to Lawrence and Pike Counties. Public Assistance (PA) is available to Bath, Clay, Floyd, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Lawrence, Lee, Magoffin, Menifee, Morgan, Owsley, Perry and Rowan Counties. All counties in the Commonwealth of Kentucky are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the Commonwealth and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. Click here for more information on FEMA-1976-DR. ###
05.16.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) today announced the winners of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. The first place artwork, entitled “Brother Returns from War,” was drawn by Emily Tackett, the valedictorian for Breathitt County High School. Emily utilized charcoal on pre-toned paper to recreate her grandmother’s reunion with her brother during World War II. Her art teacher is Paul Hale. Emily is the daughter of Lisa and Jesse Tackett of Jackson, Kentucky. “I am so impressed by all of the young talented artists who participated in the competition,” said Rogers. “Emily’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of visitors from across the world to see and I am proud that everyone will know that it came from eastern Kentucky.” The second place artwork, entitled “Hope” was drawn by Dalton Johnson, a JROTC senior from Harlan County High School. Dalton utilized graphite to draw a little girl with captivating big blue eyes, looking into the light of hope. His art teacher is Rhonda Robinson. Dalton is the son of Nick and Allison Johnson of Harlan, Kentucky. The third place artwork, entitled “Eager to Learn” was painted by Jeffery Couch, a sophomore from Knott County Central High School. He utilized watercolor to recapture his little sister eagerly watching him paint a flower. His art teacher is Carolyn Gibson. Jeffery is the son of Robin Couch of Kite, Kentucky. The winning artwork will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in June where it will hang alongside artwork from congressional districts across the nation. First place artists are invited to a Congressional Art Competition reception on June 22nd in Washington, D.C. and will receive two complimentary airline tickets to attend. The Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, was initiated by Congress in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young people living in their districts. More than 650,000 students have participated in the competition over the last 29 years. Click here to see top three winners' artwork and the artists. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
04.28.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) joined his fellow Kentucky Congressmen in signing a letter to President Obama urging him to approve Gov. Steve Beshear's request for a major distaster declaration as a result of the severe storms beginning on April 20, 2011 in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. The text of the letter reads: Dear Mr. President: We write to respectfully ask for your approval of Governor Steve Beshear's request to declare a major disaster for the Commonwealth of Kentucky as a result of severe storms, flooding, strong winds, and tornadoes beginning on April 20, 2011 and continuing to the present day. We also support his request that this major disaster declaration be cost shared 100% for public assistance categories A-G during this event. These storms have caused tremendous damage in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, prompting 48 counties and 17 cities to request assistance to date. The scale of this disaster has overwhelmed local responders, and compromised their ability to provide vital services for citizens in affected areas. This is the ninth major disaster in Kentucky in three years. On behalf of our constituents, thank you for your prompt attention to the federal assistance request from Governor Beshear. Sincerely, Harold Rogers Member of Congress Ed Whitfield Member of Congress Ben Chandler Member of Congress Geoff Davis Member of Congress John Yarmuth Member of Congress Brett Guthrie Member of Congress
04.14.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) hailed the hard-fought implementation of Florida's Prescription Drug Monitoring System (PDMP). After months of pleading by federal and state officials, in a congressional hearing today, Governor Rick Scott reversed his stance in opposition to Florida’s PDMP roll-out and testified that the Florida Department of Health has begun implementation of the database. Governor Scott's decision comes just weeks after Rogers and other officials, including Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear and U.S. Drug Czar Gil Kerlikowske, expressed sharp criticism for his refusal to implement the state's monitoring system which was passed into law in 2009. "It is no secret Florida’s pill mills have been ground zero for the illicit diversion of the drugs that are wreaking havoc in Kentucky and around the country, and I’m glad Governor Scott has finally seen the light,” stated Rogers. “This is a great day for the Commonwealth and all of our neighboring states that have been impacted by the prescription pain pills rapidly funneling out of Florida to feed the addiction epidemic plaguing our families. Every day, we lose three people to overdose-related deaths in Kentucky, and now is no time to shy away from the immense challenge of shutting down the pill pipeline." According to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), 98 of the top 100 doctors dispensing Oxycodone nationally are in Florida, concentrated in the Miami, Tampa, and Orlando regions. 126 million Oxycodone pills are dispensed through pharmacies in those regions, which is by far more than any other state in the nation. In his testimony to the Congressional Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, Governor Scott said, "together, if we hold the manufacturers, wholesalers, doctors and pharmacies accountable, we can win this fight," and highlighted a newly formed Statewide Drug Strike Force to facilitate multi-agency cooperation in battling the drug epidemic. As part of the hearing, Rogers also provided written testimony. Earlier this week, Florida's Surgeon General issued a final order to end a contract bidding dispute that had also blocked implementation of the system. Officials expect Florida's PDMP to be up and running within 90 days. "The 'Oxy Express' is headed for a shutdown," said Rogers. "Law enforcement agencies in Florida will soon have the tools they need to coordinate with agencies along the pill pipeline route and will be putting the brakes on these interstate dealers." Rogers is the Co-Chairman of the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in the U.S. House of Representatives and a co-sponsor of “The Pill Mill Crackdown Act of 2011” (H.R. 1065) that includes key provisions to support state-based prescription monitoring programs, turn illicit drug assets into drug treatment dollars, strengthen prescription standards for certain addictive pain drugs, and toughen prison terms and fines for pill mill operators. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. Click here to view Congressman Rogers' full statement
03.20.2011	House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), chairman of the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations subcommittee, today urged Florida Governor Rick Scott to reconsider his proposal to shutter a statewide prescription drug monitoring program aimed at reducing the abuse and illicit diversion of prescription drugs. The monitoring program is an electronic database which collects designated data on controlled substances dispensed in the state, providing a platform to connect physicians, pharmacists and, in some instances, authorized law enforcement. The program supports access to legitimate medical use of controlled substances while deterring or preventing drug abuse and diversion. Forty-five states have authorized such programs, and thirty-four are currently operational. Efforts are underway to facilitate secure data exchange among states to crack down on interstate “doctor shopping,” which in recent months has led to a spike in abuse and overdose deaths across the country. Florida’s program was authorized in 2009, largely in response to national outcry over an outbreak of dangerous pill mills in the state, but to date, has not been implemented by the Florida Department of Health. In a letter to Governor Scott, Rogers and Wolf pointed to an article from the Florida Weekly that documents Florida’s history as the “unquestioned ‘pill mill’ capital of the United States.” “It is no secret that individuals travel across the country to purchase drugs from Florida pharmacies with notoriously lax standards,” they wrote. Additionally, Rogers and Wolf noted that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reported that the number of overdose deaths involving prescription painkillers increased 296 percent between 1999 and 2007. According to the report, drug overdose is the leading cause of unintentional death in the U.S., surpassing motor vehicle and firearms accidents. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Administrator Michele Leonhart recently testified before Wolf’s subcommittee that the abuse of controlled prescription drugs is among the greatest narcotic abuse and trafficking concerns facing the U.S. today – and Florida is the center of the epidemic. “Administrator Leonhart clearly demonstrated that Florida is ground zero for this problem,” said Wolf. Rogers and Wolf have worked closely for many years to fight the trafficking of prescription drugs from Florida to Kentucky, Virginia, and other states. “Federal and state officials from across the country have pleaded with Governor Scott to move forward with Florida’s PDMP, and his continued rebuffs are utterly mind-boggling. Prescription drug monitoring programs are proven and cost-effective tools for cutting down on abuse and diversion, and standing up a system in Florida is the perhaps the most important step to shutting down the ‘Flamingo Road’ that’s been wreaking havoc up and down the eastern seaboard,” stated Rogers. “I hope the Governor will wise up to the scope of the problem within and outside his borders.” The text of the letter is below. The Hon. Rick Scott Governor of Florida 400 Monroe St Tallahassee, FL 32399-6536 Dear Governor Scott: We write to share our concern over your recent decision to shut down Florida’s prescription drug monitoring program, as previously noted in Chairman Rogers’ February 18 letter to you. Additionally, during a recent Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Administrator Michele Leonhart testified that the abuse of controlled prescription drugs are among the greatest narcotic abuse and trafficking concerns we face today – and Florida is the center of this epidemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reported that the number of overdose deaths involving prescription painkillers increased by 296 percent between 1999 and 2007. In fact, drug overdose is the leading cause of unintentional death in the U.S., surpassing motor vehicle and firearms accidents. Seven Floridians die every day from prescription drug abuse. We have worked closely together for many years to fight the trafficking of prescription drugs from Florida to Kentucky, Virginia and many other states. We have seen firsthand the devastating impact on families of abusers and our communities. The enclosed op-ed by Shawn Seliger, a Florida attorney who lost his step-daughter to drug overdose, details the pain felt by the families of young overdose victims that we have witnessed in our states. Further, according to the enclosed article from the Florida Weekly, “Florida is the unquestioned ‘pill mill’ capital of the United States.” As has been reiterated to you by Chairman Rogers, as well as many members of Congress and governors from around the nation, it is no secret that individuals travel across the country to purchase drugs from Florida pharmacies with notoriously lax standards. The article also reported that, “Dave Aronberg, a former state senator who is now a special prosecutor with the state attorney general’s office and charged with tackling the pill mill problem, recently noted that in the first six months of 2010, 41.2 million doses of oxycodone were prescribed in Florida. The total prescribed doses of oxycodone in every other state combined was 4.8 million. In other words, almost 90 percent of the oxycodone prescribed in the United States is ordered by Florida physicians.” As Republican members of the House Appropriations Committee, we understand your interest in protecting individual privacy and reducing spending. Our Fiscal Year (FY) 2011 appropriations legislation, H.R. 1, would cut $100 billion in annualized spending from the president’s FY 2011 budget request while reducing burdensome federal interference in state and local governments and the private sector. We nonetheless recognize that shutting down illegal “pill mill” operations and preventing prescription drug abuse and trafficking are inherently governmental functions that merit strong federal, state and local oversight. We understand that Administrator Leonhart has requested to meet with you regarding the prescription painkiller abuse epidemic in Florida. We respectfully urge you to meet with the administrator as soon as possible to discuss how Florida can support federal efforts to prevent prescription drug abuse. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Hal Rogers Chairman House Appropriations Committee Frank R. Wolf Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee House Appropriations Committee
03.10.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) sent the following letter to schools in the fifth congressional district, encouraging their students' participation in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition. The text of the letter is below: March 10, 2011 Dear Fifth District Principals and Art Teachers: It gives me great pleasure to invite each of your students to participate in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Each year, Congress holds an annual art competition for high school students to display their artistic talents and represent their congressional district. Thousands of high school students from all across the country participate in this competition, and one winner from each congressional district is chosen. I hope that you will encourage your students to participate in this wonderful presentation of our children’s talent. The United States Capitol plays host to over 3,000,000 visitors per year. With such a large and diverse quantity of guests, students from our region have a unique opportunity to showcase their talent to a wider audience. We have so much to offer in our great region, and I am grateful that the students of the fifth congressional district will have the chance to participate in this competition, and proudly represent all that Kentucky has to offer. Teachers and principals in the fifth district are encouraged to notify students of the competition and guidelines. The winner from the fifth congressional district will have their artwork displayed at the United States Capitol for an entire year. All artwork is due at the coordinating Congressional District Offices by April 22, 2011. Regional winners will be chosen from the Somerset, Prestonsburg and Hazard district offices. Information regarding regions is attached. District staff at each office will chose the finalists, and an overall winner will be chosen from the regional winners. The winner’s artwork will be hung for display in the United States Capitol. Should you have any questions regarding the competition, please do not hesitate to contact Chelsea Whalen in my Washington D.C. office at 202-225-4601 or by email at chelsea.whalen@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, HAROLD ROGERS Member of Congress Artwork should be submitted to the following district offices as indicated by county. Prestonsburg District Office (Bath, Floyd, Johnson, Lawrence, Magoffin, Martin, Morgan, Pike and Rowan counties) 110 Resource Court Suite A Prestonsburg, KY 41653 Hazard District Office (Breathitt, Knott, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Menifee, Owsley, Perry and Wolfe counties) 601 Main Street Hazard, KY 41701 Somerset District Office (Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley counties) 551 Clifty Street Somerset, KY 42503 ### For guidelines and forms, visit the Congressional Art Competition Website.
03.08.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) and U.S. Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito (WV-02) introduced legislation today to protect Appalachian coal miners from an overreaching Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and its war on coal. In response to EPA’s recent “strangulation by regulation,” the Mining Jobs Protection Act aims to eliminate the backlog of surface mining permits that has created uncertainty in the business community, threatening some 80,000 high-paying Appalachian coal mining jobs. Currently, mining operations must obtain a 404 permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, in consultation with EPA before work may commence. Since 2009, however, the EPA has overstepped its legal authority to hold up dozens of permits in Appalachia, and last month, took a wholly unprecedented action by retroactively vetoing a long-standing mining permit in Logan County, WV. The Rogers-Capito legislation directs EPA to “use it or lose it” when deciding to invoke its veto authority, putting in place a 60-day limit for EPA to justify whether a permit will be approved or denied and injecting much-needed certainty into the regulatory process. In addition, the bill ensures that EPA cannot use its veto retroactively. “As I reiterated to EPA Administrator Jackson last week, it all comes down to jobs. Coal is a vital sector of Kentucky’s economy, sustaining some 200,000 jobs, and essential to our national energy security, providing some 50% of our country’s electricity,” stated Rogers, member of the Congressional Coal Caucus. “Continued and arbitrary delays in the permitting process are threatening to put our people out of work. With unemployment hovering at 9%, our job-creating industries need regulatory certainty – not more of EPA’s an aggressive and overzealous ‘strangulation by regulation.’ The legislation that Congresswoman Capito and I introduced today limits EPA’s authority and ends its unofficial war on coal, restoring certainty and stability to employers and helping put Kentuckians back to work.” “The EPA has no right to arbitrarily revoke previously approved permits in the name of advancing an anti-coal agenda. Intentionally delaying the approval process has led to a slow-bleed of jobs throughout Appalachia at a time when we should be focusing on making it easier for businesses to stay afloat. Our miners should be able to conduct their day-to-day business and make investments in the future without a veil of uncertainty hovering over the industry. Thousands of my constituents depend on the mining industry to put food on the table, and I will fight to keep it from being targeted by those who wish to use regulatory authority to launch the so-called ‘war on coal,’” stated Capito, cofounder of the Congressional Coal Caucus. Sens. McConnell, Inhofe, and Paul introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate last week. ###
03.03.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) questioned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson on her Fiscal Year 2012 budget request. Rogers has been a leader in the U.S. House of Representatives in challenging the EPA’s regulatory agenda, particularly regarding the agency’s targeted efforts to regulate coal out of business. During an Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies hearing, Rogers demanded answers from Jackson on the economic impacts of EPA’s job-killing regulations and permitting backlogs, the repeal of a previously approved mining operation, and the Agency’s power-grab to regulate greenhouse gases. In the past, Rogers has strongly condemned such “strangulation by regulation.” Coal mining sustains 20,000 high-paying jobs in Kentucky, and supplies the fuel to power 50% of the nation at a low cost. Excerpts from his statements are below. To watch Chairman Rogers’ hearing with EPA Director Lisa Jackson, click here: “Chairman Simpson has alluded to some of our concerns about your $9 billion budget submission, the EPA’s third highest in history. When we’re borrowing 40 cents on the dollar, that staggering figure, in and of itself, is disconcerting. “But I must state for the record that I am not confident that the budget you’re defending today – or, frankly, your agency’s actions in the last two years – align with our important goals of creating jobs and opportunity. In fact, I believe EPA is headed in the wrong direction with an aggressive and overzealous regulatory agenda that far exceeds the authority it’s been granted. “The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform recently released a report identifying over SIXTY regulatory actions recently taken by EPA that could have negative impacts on job creation. SIXTY. “EPA is running absolutely roughshod over our country’s small businesses, the very engines that propel our economy forward. And you’ve left nearly every sector of the economy untouched – agriculture, manufacturing, construction, transportation – and the lifeblood of my region of the country, Appalachian coal mining. “Wrong-headed greenhouse gas regulations, so-called “guidance” on surface mining, the retroactive veto of a coal permit that has undergone more than a decade of environmental review, re-opening a long-standing definition of “fill material” that could have devastating impacts to the mining sector nationwide. All represent constitutionally dubious legislation by regulation.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
03.03.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted in favor of the H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011, which would repeal the burdensome IRS From 1099 requirements created under ObamaCare. The House passed the measure 314 – 112. “Government paperwork, complex tax forms, and red-tape stand in the way of job creation and innovation," said Rogers. “Instead of encouraging growth and stability, this administration’s healthcare take over will only create additional costs and further stifling economic opportunity. The House is already on record to repeal and defund this convoluted job-destroying health care law. By repealing the 1099 mandate, we are continuing to listen to the American people and taking a step in the right direction toward reducing these burdens, creating jobs, and putting our Kentucky families back to work.” The 1099 reporting rules, included in the 2010 health care overhaul and the “Small Business Jobs Act”, constitute a burdensome and unnecessary mandate that would hurt as many as 40 million businesses, many of which are already struggling in this economic climate. Starting in 2012, ObamaCare mandates that all businesses file an IRS From – 1099 for any vendor with which they have more than $600 in yearly transactions. H.R. 4 repeals these costly provisions while eliminating an expense reporting requirement for rental property owners. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
02.18.2011	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) called on Florida Gov. Rick Scott to reconsider his proposal to repeal Florida’s Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP). In a letter to Gov. Scott, Rogers, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, noted that the abuse and misuse of prescription drugs is our country’s fastest growing drug problem, and Florida is ground zero for black market painkillers that continue to spawn overdoses and feed illegal habits across the country. “For years, I’ve seen the havoc wrought in Appalachia by the abuse of pain medication, but the misuse of prescription drugs is now the fastest growing drug problem in our entire nation. It is no secret Florida’s pill mills have been ground zero for the illicit diversion of these drugs, and now is no time to shy away from the immense challenge of shutting down the pill pipeline,” said Rogers. “I look forward to welcoming ONDCP Director Kerlikoske to my congressional district next week, to bring to the national spotlight the lawlessness and hopelessness that can result from pills diverted along the ‘Flamingo Road,’ but also to highlight the impressive strides to attack this multi-faceted problem in southern and eastern Kentucky thanks in large part to Operation UNITE. My people are doing their part; it’s time for Governor Scott to use the tools at his disposal to do the same.” State-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) are a valuable tool for combating pill diversion and abuse, and bridging the gap between legitimate medical need and potential misuse. Florida’s program was authorized in 2009, largely in response to national outcry over an outbreak of dangerous pill mills in the state, but to date, has not been implemented by the Florida Department of Health. The text of the letter is below: February 17, 2011 The Honorable Rick Scott Governor, The State of Florida The Capitol 400 S. Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399 Dear Governor Scott: I am alarmed and dismayed by recent press reports indicating your intention to repeal Florida’s Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP). On behalf of my constituents, who continue to suffer from out-of-control and escalating prescription drug diversion originating from your state, I respectfully ask that you reverse your position on the value of and unquestionable need for Florida’s PDMP and go to work on implementing this important medical and law enforcement solution. The tragic story of Lisa Rogers as reported on February 14, 2011 in the St. Petersburg Times is one of many heart-wrenching incidents in my congressional district that have occurred as a direct result of the illicit diversion of prescription narcotics from Florida to Appalachian Kentucky, and frankly, along the entire eastern seaboard. Dubbed the “Flamingo Road,” thousands of unscrupulous drug dealers and addicted users have made the trek to your state because of the ease of access to these powerful and habit-forming drugs, and after years of prodding, your predecessor acknowledged the need for action. A giant sigh of relief swept across the nation when S.B. 462 was signed into law in Gainsville. Now is not the time to back down from this life or death challenge. The Office of National Drug Control Policy has indicated that the abuse and misuse of prescription drugs is our country’s fastest growing drug problem, and your state is ground zero for black market painkillers that continue to spawn overdoses and feed illegal habits across the country. Notably in 2009, 98 of the top 100 prescribers of oxycodone hailed from Florida, dispensing over 19 million dosage units of this drug, which represents 89% of the total dispensed by the country’s top prescribers. While Kentucky leads the nation in the non-medical use of prescription drugs, overdoses are killing seven Floridians per day. The notion of cancelling Florida’s PDMP is equal to firing firefighters while your house is ablaze; it neither makes sense nor addresses an urgent crisis. Governor, your state, more than any other, must take this crisis seriously. As we’ve seen in Kentucky, PDMPs are one of the most effective and accessible tools to combat prescription drug diversion and abuse, bridging the gap between legitimate medical need and potential misuse. The Kentucky All Schedule Prescription Electronic Reporting System (KASPER), after which your program is modeled, has had unprecedented success in bringing this problem under control. In 2008, KASPER processed nearly 418,000 requests for patient prescription information. Of the 94% which came from the medical community, including physicians, ER doctors and pharmacists, nearly three-quarters of them say KASPER is “important” in helping to ascertain patient intentions and patterns, and to feel comfortable writing prescriptions for patients truly in need of medical attention. In the same year, just over 11,000 KASPER requests came from the law enforcement community, and 96% of these KASPER users agree that the PDMP is an excellent tool for obtaining evidence in criminal investigations. These reports create informed decision-making for good medicine and good law enforcement. I have heard anecdotally of countless occasions where KASPER has helped a doctor provide better patient care or a law enforcement official interrupt a crime. Thirty-three other states are catching on with operational PDMPs. Still ten others, Florida included, have passed authorizing legislation. Nationwide, since 2003, there has been a 2,596% increase in the number of prescription reports produced by state-run PDMPs annually. Important steps have recently been undertaken to facilitate interstate data exchange among these programs to reduce the doctor shopping we’re experiencing, such as that between Florida and Kentucky. With such impressive strides being made to enhance the PDMP model and integrate data-sharing, now is not the time to back away from project implementation in Florida. Your state’s participation is paramount to the success of our nation in fighting this problem, helping addicts get treatment and prosecuting pushers. Some have wrongly suggested that patient privacy could be compromised and have used this as an unfounded distraction. Every existing PDMP has strict state and federal regulations governing who may access the data system and for what purpose. Florida is no different. Violators of these laws are charged in criminal courts as Class C or Class D felons, and medical practitioners face the loss of their license. In most instances, only medical licensing boards, law enforcement officers, Medicaid, grand juries with a subpoena, practitioners, pharmacists and judges and/or parole officers are granted access to patient information. Many states have even stricter regulations governing access to prescription drug information. Finally, as Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, I can certainly appreciate the fiscal pressures with which you are confronted in balancing a tight state budget. However, this is a matter which warrants sacrifices elsewhere. The U.S. Department of Justice has already invested $800,000 to stand up Florida’s program. Surely we can agree that to squander this important investment in your PDMP, which I understand has been complemented by some $500,000 in private donations, during such dire economic times would be imprudent. Governor Scott, President Obama’s Drug Czar and former Seattle police chief Gil Kerlikowske will tour Kentucky next week to survey the Commonwealth’s enormous troubles with prescription drug abuse. I can tell you that he will find that our problems begin in the Sunshine State. I strongly encourage you to see through the implementation of Florida’s PDMP and not turn your back on the coalition of Florida police officers, physicians, pharmacists, treatment professionals, and even legitimate pain management clinics who have fought tirelessly in search of a solution. Sincerely, HAL ROGERS Member of Congress ###
02.03.2011	Today, after testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee of the Kentucky General Assembly, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) led hundreds of people from across Kentucky in a rally at the Capitol Rotunda in support of Senate Bill 45 and its companion, House Bill 281. The bills would require a prescription for pseudoephedrine, the main ingredient in methamphetamine. Shortly after Rogers’ testimony, members voted to pass Senate Bill 45 out of committee. “This bill isn’t about eliminating cold medications. It’s about saving lives, and it can be done by requiring a prescription for just 15 boxes of pseudoephedrine products,” said Rogers in his testimony. “Yes, we will be inconvenienced a little in buying pseudoephedrine-based medicines. But, you are inconvenienced a little by having to stop at red lights, or by having to take off your shoes at the airport gate, but you know you’ll be safe. Would you trade a little inconvenience to save the life of a child? I would.” More than 400 people from across the state rallied with Rogers in support of the bills aimed at stifling the state’s meth epidemic. The measure also has the endorsement of Senate President David Williams, House Speaker Greg Stumbo, Attorney General Jack Conway, the Kentucky Education Association, Kentucky Medical Association, Kentucky State Police, Kentucky Academy of Family Physicians, Kentucky Association of Chiefs of Police, Kentucky Jailer’s Association, Appalachia HIDTA Drug Task Force and Operation UNITE. Senate Bill 45 and House Bill 281 are modeled after successful legislation enacted in Oregon, where less than 25 meth lab sites have been reported in each of the last four years. In addition, the bill requires pseudoephedrine to be a schedule IV controlled substance, allowing it to be tracked by Kentucky’s All-Scheduled Prescription Electronic Reporting system (KASPER). The 9-gram limit for 30 days would remain in effect. Four of the seven states bordering Kentucky are considering similar legislation: Indiana, Missouri, Tennessee and Virginia. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
01.27.2011	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) reminds small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives and private non-profit organizations of the approaching March 1, 2011 deadline to request economic injury disaster loan assistance from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Those businesses in the sixteen Southern and Eastern Kentucky Counties that were impacted by the severe storms and flooding that began on April 30, 2010 are urged to submit their applications with the SBA. "This program is designed to help the farm and nonfarm-related businesses recover and rebuild from the financial losses they suffered during the disaster last Spring," said Rogers. "The effects from the devastating storms are still lingering today, but federal financial assistance is available and I urge all eligible businesses to apply. Our people have proven to be resilient in every storm, but this is a reminder that help is just a phone call away during the continued restoration process." Under the declaration, the loans can be up to $2 million, with terms up to 30 years. Interest rates are 4 percent for businesses and 3 percent for non-profit organizations. Agricultural producers, farmers and ranchers are not eligible to apply to SBA. The disaster loans are available in the following counties in Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District: Bath, Breathitt, Jackson, Knott, Laurel, Lee, Magoffin, Menifee, Morgan, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Rowan, Wayne and Wolfe. For more information on the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program, to obtain application forms or to apply online visit www.sba.gov, send an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov or call the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the hearing-impaired) Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET. Completed loan applications should be returned to the SBA no later than March 1, 2011. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information on how Congressman Rogers can assist the people he serves, visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ConstituentServices. ###
01.27.2011	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced his plans today to join State Legislators in Frankfort on Thursday, February 3, 2011 to discuss the need for new legislation to battle the methamphetamine epidemic in Kentucky. Rogers will testify before the Kentucky Senate Judiciary Committee at 10 a.m. followed by a rally in the Capitol Rotunda at 2:30 p.m in support of Senate Bill 45. “Meth is saturating our state at an alarming rate in the form of injuries, deaths, criminal investigations, incarcerations, treatment and the crippling costs of dismantling hundreds of meth labs every year,” said Rogers. “The methods of the past are clearly not working. Law enforcement officials discovered more than 1,000 meth lab sites in Kentucky last year. We don’t want to continue finding more meth labs, we want to drastically reduce the manufacturing of meth. Operation UNITE has been a national model in investigations, treatment and education of drug abuse and I believe other states are looking to Kentucky to lead the way once more in the scourge of meth." Senate Bill 45 is modeled after legislation passed in Oregon and Mississippi, requiring a prescription for pseudoephedrine, the precursor for meth. In addition, the bill requires pseudoephedrine to be a schedule IV controlled substance, allowing it to be tracked by Kentucky’s All-Scheduled Prescription Electronic Reporting system (KASPER). The 9-gram limit for 30 days would remain in effect. For details about the rally visit http://operationunite.org/2011/01/rally-to-support-pseudoephedrine-bill/.
01.26.2011	Prescription drug abuse continues to be a serious issue for families and communities across the nation and, as part of their efforts to fight this growing epidemic, U.S. Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Stephen Lynch (MA-09) are re-establishing the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. The goal of the caucus is to raise awareness of abuse and to work toward innovative and effective policy solutions, incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. “Prescription drug abuse is on the rise, threatening the lives of more and more of our young people every day. From 2008 to 2009, the non-medical use of prescription drugs increased by an alarming 12 percent. This is a very disturbing statistic that illustrates how serious and dangerous this is to Americans, especially our children,” said Bono Mack. “Far too many Americans have the misconception that prescription drugs are ‘safer’ because they’re prescribed by a doctor, but the fact is that prescription drugs, when abused, can be just as addictive and as deadly as street drugs. I am proud to launch this Caucus with Representatives Rogers and Lynch who share my passion and dedication to ending this cycle of abuse that is destroying the lives and futures of too many of our young people.” “For years, my congressional district in Appalachian Kentucky has been ground zero for prescription drug abuse, and I’ve witnessed first-hand the devastation wrought by this epidemic. As this problem has magnified in scope and intensity, cross-cutting geographical and socio-economic boundaries, policy-makers around the country are recognizing that many of their constituents have also fallen prey to this scourge,” stated Rogers. “I believe this caucus is vital to uniting law-makers and other interested parties to ensure that we’re employing every resource in our arsenal to combat abuse. State legislation, treatment programs, drug courts, law enforcement, monitoring programs, educational programs – all these components will play a role in slowing the rising tide, and eventually eliminating abuse altogether. I’m proud to stand with Congresswoman Bono Mack and Congressman Lynch as we work to tackle prescription drug abuse from the bottom-up and the top-down.” “Prescription drug abuse continues to have a devastating effect on communities across the country,” Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. “I look forward to joining my colleagues to continue the work of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse in the 112th Congress. Together, we can work towards long-term policy solutions and help the many families who have been impacted by this epidemic.” According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA), the number of emergency room visits from prescription drug abuse has nearly doubled in America over the last five years. Equally troubling, there has been a staggering 400 percent increase over the past decade in the number of hospital admissions for prescription drug abuse. Clearly, this is a growing and alarming trend which is impacting people of all ages, but it creates special problems for our children and their families. The Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse has vowed to raise awareness of the problem nationwide and to help develop effective policy solutions. ?####
01.20.2011	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved legislation to repeal President Obama’s burdensome and costly health care reform law pursued and passed by the then-Speaker Pelosi-led Congress last year. Rogers is a cosponsor of H.R. 2, the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, which passed the House by a vote of 245 to 189. “For the last two years, the White House has repeatedly ignored the wishes of the American people and pushed through a costly, big government agenda,” stated Rogers. “There is no better example of this disregard than the budget-busting, job-killing health care bill that will add at least $701 billion to our deficit while doing nothing to bring down health care costs. Even worse, government bureaucrats are given greater control of medicine than local doctors and patients. Instead, this boondoggle saddles working families and small businesses with more taxes and costly red tape eventually hindering access to affordable, quality care. The path to greater patient choice and lower costs begins with today’s repeal, and as the 112th Congress continues to deliberate on this important issue, I look forward to passing common-sense legislation that will open up access and ensure America’s health care system remains the greatest in the world.” Over the last year, Rogers has cosponsored several pieces of legislation to repeal the Democrat government take-over of health care and replace it with legislation that focuses on lowering health care premiums and empowering doctors and patients. This includes the enactment of medical liability reform to rein in junk lawsuits and stop “defensive” medicine, allowing Americans to purchase health insurance across state lines so that families have more choices, the expansion of health savings accounts, strengthening the doctor-patient relationship, ensuring access for patients with pre-existing conditions and a permanent prohibition taxpayer funding of abortion. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, access to affordable health care, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
01.06.2011	Last night, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) was sworn in for his 16th term as the representative for Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District, and begins his tenure of Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee for the 112th Congress. “It is a true honor to continue my service on behalf of southern and eastern Kentuckians and the nation,” stated Rogers. “As the U.S. Constitution is read on the House Floor, it should serve as an apt reminder to those in the hallowed halls of Congress of the duties with which we were charged by our founders and the American citizenry. Today we go to work to ‘secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.’ This starts with reducing the size of government, reining in out-of-control federal spending to control the deficit, holding accountable an overzealous bureaucracy, rolling back Obamacare and other damaging regulations – and returning austerity to the People’s House. While fully aware of the many challenges ahead, I look forward to the honor and responsibility of leading the Appropriations Committee to move our nation forward.” Throughout his 30-year tenure in Congress, Rogers has served on eight different Appropriations Subcommittees, including leadership roles as Chairman or Ranking Member of three. Rogers was tapped in 2003 to lead the newly established Subcommittee on Homeland Security, where he oversaw the successful integration of 22 disparate agencies during the Department’s inception. Because of his reputation for tough oversight and tenacity in holding federal agencies and departments accountable for their wasteful spending and excessive growth, Rogers was selected as Chairman of the full Appropriations Committee in the 112th Congress. In this role, he aims to scrutinize the federal budget through tough oversight, rein in wasteful government spending, and reduce our country’s deficit for generations to come. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, access to affordable health care, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. ###
01.03.2011	U.S. Congressman Rogers (KY-05) will be sworn into the 112th Congress on Wednesday evening, January 5th, by House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH). Speaker Boehner will conduct an individual ceremonial swearing-in for Rep. Rogers following the en masse oath of office on the floor of the House of Representatives. A photo opportunity will be available with Speaker Boehner, Rep. Rogers and his family members to mark this historic occasion. Information is as follows: WHO: House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY) WHAT: Ceremonial Swearing-in of the 112th Congress WHEN: Wednesday, January 5th at approximately 7:15 p.m. WHERE: H-207, The Rayburn Room U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. NOTE: Interested media must obtain press credentials through the appropriate Capitol Hill media gallery. Contact Danielle Smoot at 606-679-8346 for contact information
01.03.2011	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) welcomed Chris Girdler back to the Rogers team as his new Deputy District Director. “I am pleased to announce that Chris Girdler will be serving as my Deputy District Director in Somerset, Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Chris served as my field representative for the western half of Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District for three years, gaining the trust and partnership of thousands of families and community leaders across the region. Chris became one of my most valued advisors during that time and I am pleased that he has accepted this new role working along-side my long-time trusted friend and District Administrator, Bob Mitchell.” Chris Girdler has become well acquainted with the issues our communities share across Southern and Eastern Kentucky through his work with Congressman Rogers’ expansive portfolio and as a former executive in the private sector. “Congressman Rogers’ energy and passion for community and public service is contagious,” said Girdler. “I am looking forward to once again serving him and the people of the Fifth Congressional District. It is an honor to do so and I’m humbled by his trust and confidence in me.” Girdler is involved in various community and civic activities. He currently serves on the Center for Rural Development’s Executive Committee, Somerset-Pulaski Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and various advisory boards. Girdler was the recipient of the “2007 Young Professional of the Year” presented to him by the Somerset-Pulaski Chamber of Commerce and most recently was awarded the prestigious “2010 Young Alumni of the Year” by Eastern Kentucky University. Girdler, his wife Courtney and their daughter, Charleston are life-long residents of Somerset, Kentucky where they attend the First Baptist Church. ###
12.17.2010	U.S. Representative Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that last night the House of Representatives has passed a comprehensive tax relief bill that provides small businesses with much needed tax certainty while helping working families through these tough economic times. The Middle Class Tax Relief Act, which heads to President Obama for his signature, will save nearly every taxpayer and small business from $3.8 trillion in rate increases otherwise slated for January 1, 2011. “At this eleventh hour, I am relieved that Congress has finally acted to provide some certainty to the many working families and small businesses facing a huge tax increase next year,” Rogers said. “Extension of these lower rates and job-creating tax provisions will allow southern and eastern Kentuckians to breathe a little easier this Christmas.” The legislation, which maintains income tax rates at current levels for the next two years, also extends the expanded child and dependent tax credits, and alleviates a spike in the estate tax, which often affects family farms and small business owners. Other provisions in the legislation include payroll tax reductions and the continuation of tax credits aimed at revitalizing low income and rural areas, incentives for mine rescue training and equipment, and an extension of unemployment insurance funding. Finally, the legislation encourages research and development of coal-derived transportation fuels and hastens efforts to energy independence. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov
12.10.2010	Appropriations Committee-elect Chairman Hal Rogers issued the following statement today congratulating the new Republican members of the House Appropriations Committee: “Cutting spending, bringing down record deficits, and reining in out-of-control agencies is going to be a difficult task, but I believe the addition of these fine, talented members is a step in the right direction. Our nation needs serious leadership and I enthusiastically welcome these Members to the Appropriations Committee.” The new Republican Members on the House Appropriations Committee, in alphabetical order, include: Steve Austria (OH) Charlie Dent (PA) Mario Diaz-Balart (FL) Jeff Flake (AZ) Tom Graves (GA) Cynthia Lummis (WY) Alan Nunnelee (MS) Steve Womack (AR) Kevin Yoder (KS)
12.08.2010	“I am honored by the Republican Conference’s decision to elect me as their Chairman of the Appropriations Committee. It is truly humbling to receive the confidence of my colleagues and I am ready to get to work so that together we can move our country forward. We are facing unprecedented times and the American people are giving us a unique opportunity to start reining in government and getting our economy back on track. My Republican colleagues and I are listening and we will fight to rein in spending, implement rigorous oversight and work together to change the culture on Capitol Hill. There is no room for failure, our nation’s security depends on us getting this right and finding a new way forward.”
11.18.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement today after the Republican Conference passed the earmark moratorium: “I applaud my Republican colleagues for standing together and passing an earmark moratorium. We are at a crossroads- with the most serious fiscal crisis staring us in the face. Now is the time to fix a broken system and demonstrate to the American people that we are listening- we will rein in spending and get this economy back on track. Make no mistake; this is only the first of many tough decisions that will test our resolve over the coming years. Either we continue the free-spending ways of the past, or we turn back from the edge of fiscal ruin and carry the message of spending reform from the people to the Capitol steps. I am proud of the step we took today and I look forward to championing the measures that we need to take to stop Washington’s spending sprees and start putting the taxpayers first.”
11.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statement this evening: “Our nation is facing a dramatic choice, and those of us in Congress -- Republican or Democrat -- must decide where we stand. Either we continue the free-spending Washington ways of the Obama administration, or we turn back from the edge of fiscal ruin and carry the message of the people to the Capitol: stop the spending and get the government under control. We must take action to restore the faith of the American people in Congress, and this begins with earmarks. I am happy to join incoming Speaker Boehner and incoming Majority Leader Cantor in calling for a continuation of the moratorium, and for the President to use his veto power to curb the practice. I pledge to do my part and will gladly enforce this rule.”
10.18.2010	Last month, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and his Republican colleagues released A Pledge to America and put forward a plan to repeal the misguided health care bill and enact real health care reform that addresses the rising cost of health insurance and opens up access for all Americans. “Our country provides the best medical care in the world - yet many Americans struggle to get the care they need because of the astronomical costs,” said Rogers. “That is why I support real health care reform that opens up access for all Americans, lowers the cost of health care and health insurance, and enables small businesses to purchase health insurance for their employees. The monstrosity of a health care bill that passed earlier in the year does nothing to lower costs and only imposes more red tape on our small businesses. Furthermore, this bill raises taxes on hard-working Americans and will sink us further into debt. It’s time to repeal the bill and get serious about true health care reform.” In A Pledge to America, Republicans call for a repeal of the recently passed health care bill and instead replace it with real reform. The plan would enact medical liability reform which will lower costs by reining in junk lawsuits and stop “defensive” medicine. The plan also would allow Americans to purchase health insurance across State lines so that families have more choices. Republicans would also expand health savings accounts, strengthen the doctor-patient relationship, ensure access for patients with pre-existing conditions and permanently prohibit taxpayer funding of abortion. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
10.12.2010	Last month, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and his Republican colleagues released A Pledge to America and put forward a plan to stop the wasteful spending that Washington has grown accustomed to. “For too many years Washington has been operating on a blank check - courtesy of the U.S. taxpayer,” said Rogers. “From trillion dollar spending sprees that fund duplicative government programs, to bailing out big business and helping Wall Street, bureaucrats on Capitol Hill have ignored Main Street for far too long. Enough is enough. America’s debt is now on track to exceed the size of our economy in less than two years. As if that weren’t bad enough, the government will spend more than $1 billion a day just to pay the interest on our debt. We can’t place the burden of our astronomical debt on our future generations. Washington is out of time and out of excuses- we must cut spending today.” In A Pledge to America, Republicans address out-of-control spending and propose a plan to rein in the purse strings immediately and pay down the debt. First, they propose cancelling unspent stimulus funds immediately. Next, they would roll back government spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels which would save at least $100 billion in the first year alone. Also, they would implement spending caps so that the government cannot continue to exponentially grow and spend money. They also would cut Congress’ budget and hold weekly votes on spending cuts. Under this plan, the bailouts would end as they call to end TARP once and for all. Republicans also propose to end government control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, impose a net federal hiring freeze of non-security employees, root out government waste and duplicative programs, and reform the budget process to focus on long-term challenges. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
10.04.2010	Last month, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and his Republican colleagues released A Pledge to America and put forward a plan to end the economic uncertainty that surrounds entrepreneurs and small businesses today. “In order for our small business owners to be successful, they need to have confidence in the economy and the assurance that the government isn’t going to slap a new regulation on them tomorrow,” said Rogers. “Sadly, bureaucrats in Washington who have never owned or operated a business do not understand this and they continue to burden our small business owners with new taxes, more regulations, and by changing the rules on a daily basis. This has got to stop. We need to end the economic uncertainty once and for all and empower our small businesses so that they can expand and create jobs. Enough with the red tape, it’s time to put the American small business owner first.” In A Pledge to America, Republicans address the uncertainty facing small businesses and propose a plan to revive free enterprise and move America away from a debt-driven economy. First, they would permanently stop all job-killing tax hikes that are scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011. Next, they would give small businesses a tax deduction equal to 20% of their business income. This will provide entrepreneurs with a much-needed infusion of capital for investment and hiring. The plan would also rein in the red tape caused by bureaucrats in Washington. Rather than allowing federal agencies to implement regulations as they please, Republicans would require congressional approval of any new federal regulation that has an annual cost to the economy of $100 million or more. And finally, the plan would repeal the 1099 reporting mandate in the healthcare bill that requires small businesses to report to the IRS any purchase they make that is over $600. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. As a co-sponsor of this bill, Rogers joined his colleagues in the House in supporting a pro-job, pro-business, pro-investment, and pro-growth U.S. economic and trade policy. “For far too long our American businesses have suffered because the Chinese government has manipulated the value of its currency at the expense of U.S. made goods,” said Rogers. “This bill will help level the playing field so that our small and medium-sized businesses no longer have to compete against Chinese products purposely devalued by up to 35%. While not a complete solution to our trade woes with China , for several years I have voiced strong concerns regarding China’s deliberate undervalued currency policy. H.R. 2378 marks a step in the right direction so that we can end some of the unfair practices and give U.S. businesses a leg up and a chance to compete.” The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act would help to neutralize the effects of this trade imbalance by allowing American industries to appeal for remedies under current international trade law. The legislation would clarify the responsibility of the U.S. Department of Commerce and allow them to investigate alleged currency undervaluation on a case-by-case basis. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representative on September 29, 2010 and awaits Senate consideration. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) has received the American Future Fund “Free Market Defender” Award for upholding conservative, free market ideas during the 111th Congress. “I am proud to have received the Free Market Defender Award from the American Future Fund,” said Rogers. “Big government has run amuck and has trampled on our founding values. In these challenging economic times we need to stop the bureaucratic mess in Washington and return to free market principles so that we can get our economy back on track. I applaud the American Future Fund for their hard work in standing up for conservative ideas. Rest assured, I will continue to put the taxpayer first and fight to rein in wasteful government spending once and for all.” The American Future Fund was formed to provide Americans with a conservative and free market viewpoint to have a mechanism to communicate and advocate on the issues that most interest and concern them. With their belief that conservative and free market principles are under attack in America, they strive to be a voice for these principles that focus on bolstering America’s global competitiveness across the county. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.29.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), along with state and local sources, has awarded $1,000,000 to the Save The Children Foundation for the Kentucky Rural Literacy Program. It is estimated that 1,500 children throughout southern and eastern Kentucky will receive supplemental literacy services through this grant. “Reading is a key building block to educational and life success,” said Rogers. “Encouraging our young people to perform to the best of their academic abilities, and providing them with the resources they need to succeed, is critical to improving our communities. By giving our children, our region’s most precious asset, a strong foundation and special attention in reading and writing, we are creating hope for all of southern and eastern Kentucky and these funds will allow many of our children to get back on board and achieve their educational goals. Once again, ARC, in conjunction with valuable partners, is leading the way in education.” ARC will award $500,000 to The Save the Children Foundation for the Kentucky Rural Literacy Program. This funding is supplemented with $482,700 from state sources and $17,300 from local sources brining the total project funding to $1,000,000. The literacy program provides students who struggle with reading in grades Kindergarten through 6th grade a highly structured reading curriculum. The program consists of afterschool activities, summer activities, and in-school support. The hallmark of the program is a daily 60 minute “Literacy Block,” which includes guided independent reading practice, fluency building support, and reading aloud. Staff works with small groups of students so that they can address phonics, sight words, vocabulary and reading comprehension. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.29.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) joined Members of the Rural America Solutions Group for a forum on the job-killing regulations being imposed by the Obama Administration’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Rogers condemned the EPA’s targeted War on Appalachian Coal before introducing panelist Robert Gabbard, CEO of Kentucky-based U.S. Coal Corporation. In addition to Mr. Gabbard’s testimony, Members heard from six other rural Americans from across the nation who provided real-life examples of how EPA’s regulations are stifling job creation, impeding economic recovery and harming their livelihoods. “At a time when many rural communities are experiencing double digit unemployment, this forum highlights the Obama Administration’s targeted efforts to expand the role of the EPA at the expense of small businesses across rural America. In southern and eastern Kentucky, we’ve experienced the brunt of EPA attacks on Appalachian coal for months, but it’s clear this is an assault on rural America that extends far beyond the Commonwealth and cuts across all sectors of the economy. It threatens to shut down businesses and put thousands of Americans out of work,” said Rogers. “As folks around the country continue to struggle to put food on the table, there couldn’t be a worse time for the Obama Administration to target rural Americans with its big government agenda. Small businesses in Kentucky simply don’t need more red tape. They need a federal government that will get out of their backyards and instead focus on creating jobs, preventing tax hikes and getting our economy back on track.” Robert Gabbard, CEO of Kentucky-based U.S. Coal Corporation, was among seven panelists at the forum. Gabbard highlighted the negative impacts of Cap and Trade legislation, as well as the EPA’s recently implemented standards for surface mining in six Appalachian states which have caused significant barriers and delays in issuing job-creating coal mining permits. “The industry has changed over the years, and we’re producing coal in a manner that is safer and more environmentally responsible than ever before,” he stated. “The coal industry provides thousands of jobs to the communities of rural Appalachia and provides many more thousands of jobs through the vendors and suppliers being utilized. Yet, the EPA and other federal regulatory agencies seek to regulate us out of business.” To upend the EPA’s “strangulation by regulation,” earlier this month, Rogers introduced H.R. 6113, the Electricity Reliability Protection Act, which would prohibit EPA from executing new regulatory guidance until going through the formal rule-making process, thus allowing for appropriate public comment and discourse. H.R. 6113, introduced with broad bi-partisan support, is currently under consideration by several House Committees. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Commerce has provided $1,000,000 for PRIDE to continue its valuable environmental initiatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers secured this important funding in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010 to promote environmental stewardship and education, as well as initiate and manage important water clean-up and wildlife habitat protection initiatives in the region. “PRIDE is an essential part of ensuring that we preserve our region’s natural beauty for generations to come,” said Rogers. “PRIDE teaches the value of conservation through important clean-up efforts and ensures that our communities have access to safe, sanitary water. The empowerment that PRIDE brings to Kentuckians keeps litter out of our streams and forests and makes certain that our breathtaking landscape is second to none. Southern and eastern Kentucky is a more desirable place because of the PRIDE in our communities.” PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. Since 1996, PRIDE has recruited more than 320,000 volunteers logging over 1.125 million volunteer hours, provided 29,556 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up over 145,000 tons of trash. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), supported by local sources, has awarded $546,486 to the Manchester Memorial Hospital to purchase an updated computed tomography (CT) scan machine. This new scanner is expected to provide 12,000 patients with more efficient and detailed testing. “Having access to the latest health care technology is key to successfully diagnosing and treating disease,” said Rogers. “I applaud ARC for their continuous efforts to bring the best tools available to our rural communities so that they have access to the same quality health care that larger, more urban areas benefit from. Clay County residents will soon have access to more treatment options and will be able to live healthier lives because of this important resource coming to Manchester Memorial Hospital.” ARC will award Manchester Memorial Hospital a $400,000 grant for an updated 16-slice CT scan machine. This funding is supplemented with $146,486 from local sources. The CT scanner will allow physicians to complete biopsy procedures and other interventions while viewing the CT scan in real time. Doctors will use the CT scanner to help diagnose cancer, cardiovascular disease, infectious disease, trauma, and muscular and skeletal disorders. This updated technology will reduce radiation exposure, serve more patients, and eliminate the need for patients to travel to hospitals farther away in order to confirm a diagnosis. Last year, Rogers announced that ARC had funded a new digital mammography system for Manchester Memorial Hospital which has enabled women in Clay County and the surrounding area to access reliable mammography technology in order to properly diagnosis breast cancer. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has provided $1,000,000 for Operation UNITE’s voucher program to help those addicted to drugs seek out the treatment they need. Last year, Rogers secured this important funding in the FY 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Bill passed on December 16, 2009. “Providing hope for those who are bound by addiction is a key pillar in the fight against drugs,” said Rogers. “All too often drug users have nowhere to turn and are left will little choice but to feed their addiction as their lives spiral out of control. But thanks to Operation UNITE, addicts now have a way out. Treatment is no longer out of the picture because of financial restraints. This funding is absolutely vital because it gives people a second chance and a way to start over. Our communities are safer when we provide help to those who need it the most.” Operation UNITE, which stands for Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education, serves 29 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky. The region-wide program has three main tasks: creating regional drug task forces for interdiction, confiscation and undercover operations; organizing local citizens’ groups and coordinating drug treatment programs; and working with educators to expand drug awareness and education programs in local schools. With this funding, Rogers has directed nearly $50 million for UNITE-related activities over the last 8 years. To date, UNITE detectives have removed over $9.26 million worth of drugs off the street, including more than 96,916 prescription pills, more than 23 pounds of cocaine, over 4,763 marijuana plants and over 11.7 pounds of methamphetamine. Their efforts have led to the arrests of more than 3,400 drug dealers and a 96.8% conviction rate. Operation UNITE also provides non-violent offenders and those grappling with addiction with a second chance—over 2,700 people have participated in UNITE drug court programs, and more than 1,800 individuals have received vouchers for treatment. Finally, Operation UNITE continues to educate our youth about the dangers of drug abuse; to date, 66,924 counseling sessions have taken place with UNITE substance abuse counselors. For more information on UNITE, visit www.operationunite.org or call 866-678-6483. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.27.2010	Last week, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and 143 of his colleagues called on Speaker Nancy Pelosi to schedule a straight up or down vote on extending the 2001 and 2003 tax relief bills. If Congress fails to act, individuals, families and small businesses will be faced with a $3.8 trillion tax increase. Currently, no vote is scheduled on this important legislation and Congress is set to adjourn this week for the October District Work Period. “The last thing Congress should do in these tough economic times is raise taxes on our hardworking families and small businesses,” said Rogers. “If the Majority in Congress can go on trillion dollar spending sprees to fund government programs, Wall Street and big business, then the least they could do is provide tax relief for the people who need it most. The American people deserve better. Congress must end these political games today and pass tax relief now so that small businesses can start hiring again and families don’t have to worry about their taxes increasing at the end of the year.” Currently, The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 and The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 are set to expire on December 31, 2010. At this time, income taxes will increase for every American who pays taxes. Furthermore, the marriage penalty tax will be reinstated, the child tax credit will be reduced, and the estate tax will return if no action is taken. On September 22, 2010, 144 Members of Congress sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi urging her to hold an up or down vote on extending tax relief for all Americans before Congress leaves Washington at the end of the month. CLICK HERE for PDF copy of the signed letter to Speaker Pelosi Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.24.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in conjunction with other local entities, has awarded $250,000 to the Center for Rural Development (Center) for its Implementing Community Strategies Program. These funds will support fifteen mini-grants for nearby, distressed communities to develop strategic plans for economic development. In addition, a portion of this funding will provide training to over 200 local leaders in business and community development. “There is no doubt that this uncertain economy and the drying up of financial capital have created many barriers for our communities, small businesses, and families,” said Rogers. “I applaud the Center’s measurable efforts to empower our community leaders and invest in our rural cities and counties with tools necessary to grow businesses, create jobs, and fuel lasting development. ARC has been a great resource for our region as we work through these tough times together to ensure a bright future for southern and eastern Kentucky.” ARC’s Distressed Counties grant program targets special resources to the most economically distressed counties in Appalachia, using three economic indicators: three-year average unemployment rates, per capita market income and poverty rates. This project builds on the Center’s efforts to provide assistance to distressed communities by implementing comprehensive strategic plans that promote economic growth. The Center is also encouraging the use of technology solutions in the implementation and execution of these plans. Additionally, this program will provide training for community leaders so that they have all the information and resources to ensure their strategic plans reach their maximum potential. Established in 1996 through the vision of U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers and other leaders, the Center for Rural Development is a non-profit organization fueled by a mission to provide leadership that stimulates innovative and sustainable economic development solutions and a better way of life in southern and eastern Kentucky. In its 42-county primary service region, the Center provides innovative programs in leadership, development, advanced telecommunications, technology, public safety and a variety of performing arts and cultural events. The Center is committed to constantly expanding its capabilities in order to deliver a range of key services throughout Kentucky and the nation. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.24.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) has received the National Federation of Independent Business’ (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award for his strong support of small business and pro-job growth legislation during the 111th Congress. “I am deeply honored to be recognized by NFIB,” said Rogers. “Small business is the backbone of our economy and employs the majority of Americans. In these difficult economic times, with the threat of higher taxes and more burdensome government regulations, our small businesses are suffering and are often forgotten by bureaucrats in Washington. I applaud NFIB for being their voice on Capitol Hill and working hard to ensure that these hardworking men and women aren’t ignored. I will continue to make economic development and job creation a priority by standing up for our small businesses and promoting a pro-growth policy agenda.” NFIB praised Rogers for his commitment to small businesses: “In the 111th Congress, Representative Hal Rogers proved that he is a champion of small business. The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of the deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials who promote and protect their right to own, operate and grow their businesses.” NFIB is the leading small business association representing small and independent businesses. A nonprofit, nonpartisan organization founded in 1943, NFIB represents the consensus views of its members in Washington and all 50 state capitals. NFIB’s mission is to promote and protect the right of their members to own, operate and grow their businesses. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.23.2010	U. S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda focused on addressing the American people’s top priorities. The agenda offers concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and reform to Congress itself. “The American people are struggling and they are fed up with the out-of-touch policies and trillion dollar spending sprees that Washington has become accustomed to today. While families pinch pennies to put food on the table and worry if they have enough left over to pay their mortgage, Congress spends their hard-earned taxpayer money and then demands more. Enough is enough. The days of writing blank checks are over. Congress must learn to live within its means and cut wasteful spending once and for all. “Washington has run amuck and for far too long has ignored hardworking taxpayers and struggling small business owners. This is unacceptable and must end immediately. In an effort to reform Congress, my Republican colleagues and I have offered A Pledge to America, which focuses on issues like creating jobs, reining in spending and paying down the debt. Through this pledge we are presenting a set of bold solutions, renewing a commitment to our founding principles and offering a new way of doing business in Washington. “The fight for reform begins today. We must empower our small businesses, extend tax cuts for our families, cut spending once and for all, and oppose job killing legislation like “Cap and Trade.” My colleagues and I are prepared to move American forward and restore our founding principle of accountability to the people.”
09.22.2010	Today, Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Bill Delahunt (MA-10) and Hal Rogers (KY-05) spoke at the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse’s Forum. The goal of the forum was to shed light on the country’s fastest growing drug problem and develop innovative and effective policy solutions to reduce abuse. “We know the frightening statistics and many of us are all too familiar with the rapidly growing, destructive problem of prescription drug abuse affecting individuals, families and especially our youth. An all-hands-on-deck approach is needed to win this battle-- prevention, treatment, research, and law enforcement are all important components in addressing the issue,” stated Bono Mack. “Today’s forum shows the tremendous support our efforts have in fighting against drug abuse and has shown our fight is gaining ground. I am very appreciative of our expert panelists and look forward to our continued efforts in raising awareness on the very serious dangers of prescription drug addiction.” "Prescription drug abuse in the United States is a national crisis that impacts our communities and our economy with the potential to create a lost generation of Americans,” said Delahunt. “We are losing more of our citizens to the abuse of prescription drugs than we are in the wars we've fought. Today’s forum is an opportunity to hear from key policy makers as part of a sustained effort to address this epidemic.” “For years, I’ve seen the havoc wrought in Appalachia by the abuse of pain medication, but the misuse of prescription drugs is now the fastest growing drug problem in our entire nation,” said Rogers. “Today’s forum brought together policy-makers from all levels of government and stake-holders from all walks of life to share ideas on just how we can prevent drug abuse, provide treatment options for the addicted and ensure that the law enforcement community has the tools necessary to stop drug dealers and unscrupulous doctors. While the facts are daunting and we face an uphill battle, it is refreshing to hear from experts in this field who are working every day to win the war against drug abuse. I’m particularly optimistic that the development of an interstate prescription monitoring compact will complement and enhance the prescription monitoring efforts already underway in 34 states to keep these otherwise life-saving drugs from being abused.” This forum comes on the heels of news from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) that the number of hospital admissions for prescription drug abuse increased by 400% in the last decade and the nonmedical use of prescription drugs increased by 12% in just one year from 2008-2009. The forum consisted of two panels—one summarizing prescription drug abuse today, followed by a panel on the value of prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) and the recently developed interstate compact on PDMP data sharing. Panel One examined recent trends in prescription drug abuse throughout the nation, focusing on federal initiatives and research tailored specifically to prescription drug issues. Prescription drug abuse transcends state lines and socio-economic groups and, among young people, prescription drugs are being abused more than cocaine, heroin and meth combined. Panelists included Gil Kerlikowske, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP); Regina LaBelle, Senior Policy Advisor to Director Kerlikowske; Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) and Joseph Rannazzisi, Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). Panel Two highlighted the importance of PDMPs and the recent development of the interstate compact which will further reduce interstate “doctor shopping” by facilitating the exchange of PDMP data across state lines. PDMPs track vital prescription data so that doctors and pharmacists know when a prescription is being abused and investigators can root out unscrupulous doctors who are aiding drug dealers and addicts. Panelists included The Honorable Steven A. Tolman, Massachusetts State Senator; David Hopkins, Vice President of the Alliance of States with Prescription Monitoring Programs; Crady deGolian and Rick Masters, Council of State Governments (CSG); Mike Barnes, Center for Lawful Access and Abuse Deterrence (CLAAD) and John Eadie, Executive Director of the Brandeis University’s Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) Center of Excellence. Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack and Congressman Hal Rogers launched the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse on June 3, 2010. The Caucus aims to raise awareness of abuse, and to work towards innovative and effective policy solutions incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Representatives Bill Delahunt (MA-10), Stephen Lynch (MA-09) and Connie Mack (FL-14) are also original caucus members. CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO of Congresswoman Bono Mack CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO of Congressman Delahunt CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO of Congressman Rogers CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO of the panelists CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO of Representatives Bono Mack, Delahunt and Rogers
09.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services has provided $1,000,000 for Operation UNITE’s multi-school substance abuse counseling program. Last year, Rogers secured this important funding in the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill to educate students on the dangers of drug abuse. “Our region is faced with an epidemic like none other. Drug abuse threatens our communities, our families and our children,” said Rogers. “Operation UNITE’s focus on education is vital to teaching our kids about the dangers of drugs and providing counseling for students who are experimenting or abusing. UNITE brings hope to our region by taking drug dealers off our streets, treating those paralyzed by addiction and educating our students. In the battle against drugs, Operation UNITE is truly making a difference and making our region a better place.” Operation UNITE, which stands for Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education, serves 29 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky. The region-wide program has three main tasks: creating regional drug task forces for interdiction, confiscation and undercover operations; organizing local citizens’ groups and coordinating drug treatment programs; and working with educators to expand drug awareness and education programs in local schools. With this funding, Rogers has directed nearly $50 million for UNITE related activities over the last 8 years. UNITE’s substance abuse counselors provide assistance to students, individually or in group settings, to help them in overcoming dependences or to deal with substance abuse and related problems. Counselors also work within the schools to prevent substance abuse through education and intervene at the earliest signs of addiction so those individuals can seek treatment as soon as possible. To date, UNITE detectives have removed over $9.26 million worth of drugs off the street, including more than 96,916 prescription pills, more than 23 pounds of cocaine, over 4,763 marijuana plants and over 11.7 pounds of methamphetamine. Their efforts have led to the arrests of more than 3,400 drug dealers and a 96.8% conviction rate. Operation UNITE also provides non-violent offenders and those grappling with addiction with a second chance—over 2,700 people have participated in UNITE drug court programs, and more than 1,800 individuals have received vouchers for treatment. Finally, Operation UNITE continues to educate our youth about the dangers of drug abuse; to date, 66,924 counseling sessions have taken place with UNITE substance abuse counselors. For more information on UNITE, visit www.operationunite.org or call 866-678-6483. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.20.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has selected Morehead-based Frontier Housing to receive a $750,000 award. Frontier Housing will use this award to increase lending and make financing available to individuals in the community who are looking to buy a home. “Frontier Housing is a critical link for so many individuals who are looking to buy a home and put down roots in their local community,” said Rogers. “With an uncertain economy so many have put the dream of homeownership to the side, but this funding will allow the good people of Rowan County and beyond to move forward and make their dream a reality. When people invest in the community by buying a home, it not only helps cultivate our communities, it brings new growth and opportunity to our region. I applaud Frontier Housing and the Treasury Department for investing in our people.” Frontier Housing was founded in 1974 and has grown to become the largest provider of affordable homeownership opportunities in Northeastern Kentucky and one of the largest home builders in the region. They have assisted over 1,000 families and provide over 120 housing solutions each year. Since their founding, they have added over $64 million to the local tax rolls. Frontier Housing offers homebuyer education, affordable home mortgage loans, subdivision development, and more. With general operations based in Rowan County, they serve low to moderate income families and individuals in Bath, Carter, Elliot, Fleming, Magoffin, Menifee, Morgan, Rowan, and Wolfe counties, as well as the City of Ashland, Kentucky. CDFI was established as a bipartisan initiative through the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to promote economic revitalization and community development through investment and assistance to community development financial institutions, such as Frontier Housing. Their mission is to provide credit, capital, and financial services to underserved populations and communities in the United States. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.20.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has selected London-based Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) to receive a $750,000 award. Kentucky Highlands will use this award to make financing available to local businesses to continue to create new and exciting job opportunities throughout the region. “Kentucky Highlands has a history of supporting small businesses who are working hard to expand our local economy and create more jobs for our region,” said Rogers. “This award will provide more opportunities for entrepreneurs throughout Southern and Eastern Kentucky, and, as a result, businesses will continue to bring new innovation and development to our communities. I applaud Kentucky Highlands and the Treasury Department for their ongoing commitment to Appalachia.” KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Since 2003, KHIC encompasses twenty two counties, which includes the counties of Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne and Whitley. Their mission is to provide and retain employment opportunities in southern and eastern Kentucky through sound investments and management assistance. CDFI was established as a bipartisan initiative through the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to promote economic revitalization and community development through investment and assistance to community development financial institutions, such as Kentucky Highlands. Their mission is to provide credit, capital, and financial services to underserved populations and communities in the United States. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in conjunction with a 50% match of local sources, has awarded a $1,000,000 grant to support the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation’s (KHIC) Houseboat to Energy Efficient Residences (HBEER) initiative. This initiative will provide low-interest loans, technical assistance, and financial support to assist area houseboat manufacturers in expanding product lines to include innovative, energy-efficient homes. This effort will create or save an estimated 30 to 40 jobs throughout the region. “Lake Cumberland is known as the houseboat capital of the world, but recent economic events have caused this critical industry to struggle and job opportunities to suffer,” said Rogers. “This forward-leaning initiative by Kentucky Highlands is great news for our houseboat manufacturers and will help these vital employers transition to expanding markets while keeping factory doors open. With these transition funds to design and build environmentally sound, energy efficient homes, ARC and Kentucky Highlands continue to lead the way forward.” In response to the impacts of the Lake Cumberland pool reduction and recent economic downturns, KHIC has partnered with the University of Kentucky (UK) on HBEER. Several houseboat manufacturing facilities in the region have severely slowed or ceased operations. With UK architects, engineers, and experts providing technical knowhow, HBEER aims to produce energy-efficient, low-income housing units by refitting local houseboat factories and restarting production lines while utilizing the existing, skilled workforce. Ultimately, the project seeks to produce energy-efficient housing and replace homes with high energy costs throughout the Commonwealth. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Over the last 36 years, KHIC has invested more than $123 million in over 400 private enterprises in Appalachia Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Union College will receive $495,000 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help with the renovation of the Old Knox County Hospital. This funding will support the engineering component of the renovation of the Hospital into new academic facilities for the college to develop a full-fledged nursing program. Last year, Rogers secured this funding as part of the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill. “Expanding opportunities in education is vital for our communities and will help to move our region forward,” said Rogers. “I applaud Union College for their commitment to helping students advance and making health care a priority. Training the next generation of health care professionals right here in southern and eastern Kentucky will go a long way towards filling the current nursing shortages we face.” The amount will fund the architect and engineering that is required to convert the Old Knox County Hospital into a new academic building. Union College will use this expansion of academic facilities to establish a Registered Nurse (RN) to Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN) training and allied health programs. This program will help to alleviate the critical shortage of trained nurses throughout Appalachia and the nation. Combined with previous ARC grants of $25,000, Rogers has helped secure a total of $520,000 for this project. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has selected Somerset-based Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) to receive a $750,000 award. SKED will use this award to make financing available to local businesses and continue to generate new job growth opportunities throughout the region. “SKED is a lifeline for so many small business entrepreneurs and executives working hard to expand and create tomorrow’s careers for the people of Southern and Eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Whether a local business is seeking technical support, investment funds for new equipment, or financial backing, this award will go a long way toward renewing confidence in our local economy. I applaud SKED and the Treasury Department for investing in our communities and providing an opportunity for economic development.” “The fastest growing sector of job creation in America is small business. Southeast Kentucky is no different, but the lack of capital makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to start or expand their businesses,” said Greg Jones, SKED executive director. “This infusion of $750,000 from the CDFI fund will allow SKED to address the needs of small businesses throughout its service area and provide necessary funding where it’s lacking most.” SKED is a non-profit economic development organization formed in 1986, serving 42 counties in Southeastern Kentucky. The organization works directly with individual companies, their consultants and advisors to help with a variety of services including site selection assistance, tax information, financing, training, workforce recruitment and more. As a Certified Development Corporation (CDC) by the U.S. Small Business Administration, SKED is authorized to process SBA 504 loans through the Commonwealth of Kentucky in order to provide small business financing and create jobs. Since its initial certification as a CDFI, SKED has provided loans totaling $3.4 million, created or retained 712 jobs, and leveraged $74 million in private investment in Southeast Kentucky. CDFI was established as a bipartisan initiative through the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to promote economic revitalization and community development through investment and assistance to community development financial institutions, such as SKED. Their mission is to provide credit, capital, and financial services to underserved populations and communities in the United States. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO: Congressman Rogers Presenting Check to Greg Jones
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in partnership with the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority, will award $675,000 to the City of Beattyville for its downtown waterline improvement project. This project is expected to improve water services to hundreds of households and businesses in Lee County. “Enhancing our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” said Rogers. “These funds will vastly improve the water flow and water pressure to our neighbors and downtown businesses in Beattyville. Following the tragic downtown fire that destroyed three small businesses, I am pleased to see that these much needed upgrades are taking place to ensure improved fire response and to give our families and business owners greater peace of mind.” ARC awarded the City of Beattyville a $500,000 grant for the downtown waterline improvement project. This important funding will be supplemented by a $140,000 grant and $35,000 loan from the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority– bringing the total project funding to $675,000. The City will use this funding to install 3,600 linear feet of waterline and 9 flushing hydrants in order to improve the water pressure and flow for emergency situations within the downtown area. Throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects in the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), along with local sources, has awarded $125,000 for the Wayne County Market Place project. This funding will provide space to over a dozen local farmers and artisans to sell their produce and crafts. “Supporting our local farmers and artisans helps to not only promote our region, but continues our effort to help strengthen the local economy and invest in our communities,” said Rogers. “I applaud ARC for recognizing the value of our local entrepreneurs and providing them with a much-improved venue to sell their locally produced products. By drawing people to downtown Monticello, additional opportunities will be created for all our small business owners.” The Wayne County Farmers’ Market is currently open only two days a week from May to mid-October. Vendors have no shelter, resulting in limited hours. This funding, $100,000 from ARC and $25,000 from local sources, will support the construction of a 4,000 square foot building to serve as a store front and retail facility for local farmers to sell produce and local artisans to market arts and crafts. The sheltered facility will allow business to be conducted five to six days a week during the season and will help to expand the local economic base. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $100,000 to Grace Community Health Center. This grant will help the center focus on improved patient care and health outcomes in rural Knox and Clay counties. “Empowering our health care professionals with the latest technology goes a long toward improving health care and getting better results,” said Rogers. “Grace Community Health Center serves those who are most in need and will use this funding to help improve the quality of life for those with little to no access to health care. This investment in Clay and Knox counties improves the well-being and health of the local community.” Grace Community Health Center serves Knox, Whitley and Clay counties. This grant will fund their Rural Quality Improvement Project (RQIP) which focuses on Knox and Clay counties because of their medically underserved population and the high rate of diabetes and cardiovascular disease found throughout these communities. The RQIP project will implement a new patient registry system to track and report eight health indicators against nationally accepted performance measures, assess the need for quality improvement, develop additional performance measures, and more. The expected impact of this 3 year RQIP project is an increase of 26,562 patient encounters, as well as reduce the percentage of unmanaged diabetes and cardiovascular disease in these two rural counties. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.15.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Morehead State University (MSU) will receive $247,500 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for their rural health care initiative in Martin County. This program is part of an ongoing rural health demonstration program launched by Rogers and begun at the Roy F. Collier Community Center in Inez. Last year, Rogers secured this funding as part of the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill. “Preventative health care is key to saving lives and ensuring the best possible outcome to a diagnosis,” said Rogers. “I am pleased that Morehead State is continuing their efforts in Martin County and providing the resources necessary for our community to address their health care problems. By engaging individuals and local organizations, MSU is empowering individuals and investing in the long-term sustainability of this important project. Taking the time to invest in health education and prevention measures goes a long way toward improving the well-being of our families and our region.” MSU will use the funds to continue the “Martin County on the Move” health outreach demonstration program initiated by Rogers in 2008 and to launch a new effort aimed at overcoming health care barriers such as accessibility and affordability. This targeted and comprehensive project works with community leaders, schools and businesses to draw attention to healthy lifestyle choices and combat the region’s high rate of diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. The funds will be used to continue previous programming for this project, as well as increase community involvement and ensure its viability. To date, Rogers has secured $780,000 in funding for this important initiative. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.15.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) spoke at the FACES of Coal rally on Capitol Hill and energized hundreds of coal miners who traveled from all over Appalachia to make sure their voices were heard. Rogers spoke out against the EPA’s war on coal and introduced legislation, H.R. 6113, the Electric Reliability Protection Act, which would stop the EPA and Administration’s attempt to regulate coal mining out of business. “At a time when our nation faces 9.6% unemployment, bureaucrats in Washington are trying to put an entire sector of our economy out of business,” said Rogers. “From the devastating Cap and Trade bill, to the EPA’s absurd directives on carbon dioxide, to continued delays in the coal mining permitting process, the Administration is threatening 1 out of every 4 Appalachian coal mining jobs. Because of these political games, 2 billion tons of coal are going untapped – that is enough to power the nation for two years. “After repeated attempts to force the EPA and Administration to listen, my colleagues and I have decided that enough is enough. Today, I am joined by 11 of my colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, to introduce the Electric Reliability Protection Act in the House of Representatives. This bill would stop the EPA’s power grab and put Appalachian coal miners back to work. Coal creates jobs and powers nearly half of our nation’s electricity needs. Today we are sending a message to unelected bureaucrats that they will not regulate us out of business. Together we will continue to fight the good fight and ensure that America has access to the power it needs to keep the lights on and sustain the coal mining jobs that are worth fighting for.” Congressman Rogers has introduced H.R. 6113 along with 11 bi-partisan co-sponsors: Robert Aderholt (AL), Rick Boucher (VA), Shelley Moore Capito (WV), Geoff Davis (KY), Jimmy Duncan (TN), Brett Guthrie (KY), Nick Rahall (WV), Zack Space (OH), Ed Whitfield (KY), Charlie Wilson (OH) and Don Young (AK). The legislation would prohibit EPA from executing new regulatory guidance until going through the formal rule-making process, thus allowing for appropriate public comment and discourse. This legislation was prompted by the EPA’s recently implemented standards for surface mining in six Appalachian states which have caused significant barriers and delays in issuing job-creating coal mining permits. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO: Rogers Speaking at the Rally CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO: Rogers Speaking with Pikeville Residents at the Rally CLICK HERE FOR PHOTO: Rogers Talking with Kentuckians at the Rally CLICK HERE FOR TEXT OF H.R. 6113
09.14.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) has awarded a $1.6 million grant to South Kentucky Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation (SKRECC) to train new and existing workers on emerging Smart Grid technology. SKRECC will partner with the Cumberland Workforce Investment Board, Lake Cumberland Area Development District and Somerset Community College to help individuals learn about this new technology and acquire the skills they need to work in the energy industry. “SKRECC has a long history of providing cutting edge training to individuals in Southern and Eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “A trained, dedicated workforce is critical to continuing to expand and attract top-notch businesses throughout our region. Furthermore, in these uncertain economic times learning new skills can provide new opportunities for those seeking employment. I applaud SKRECC for continuing to provide first-rate training to our hard working men and women.” SKRECC will provide training for energy auditors and raters, Smart Grid hardware installation and maintenance, and Smart Grid software. These three components will provide participants the training, certification and skills necessary to obtain employment with the Commonwealth’s leading energy industry employers. Training will lead to the Residential Energy Service Network’s Certified Home Energy Rater (HERS) certificate and Smart Grid skills and competencies recognized by employers. Approximately 300 veterans, unemployed individuals, out-of-school youth and individuals seeking pathways out of poverty will be enrolled. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.14.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education has provided $250,000 for PRIDE’s environmental education program. Last year, Rogers secured this important funding in the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill in order to promote environmental volunteerism and education. “PRIDE has empowered Kentuckians to keep our region clean so that our scenic landscape and natural beauty will be safe for generations to come,” said Rogers. “Today in our classrooms, because of PRIDE’s important education program, our students are being taught the value of personal responsibility, conservation, and taking care of the environment that surrounds them. Kids in our communities are developing wetlands, constructing greenhouses, developing nature walks, and monitoring pollution. These funds are critical to continuing these efforts and equipping teachers to lead inside and outside the classroom.” PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. To date, PRIDE has recruited more than 292,000 volunteers logging over 1 million volunteer hours, provided 29,485 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up 139,725 tons of trash. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.14.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Kentucky River Community Care (KRCC) in Jackson has received a $400,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Center for Substance Abuse Treatment program to help treat those afflicted with an addiction to drugs. “Kentucky River Community Care is a beacon of hope for so many of our neighbors who are battling addictions and need proper treatment to overcome their struggle with drugs,” said Rogers. “Through efforts like Operation UNITE, fighting the epidemic of drug abuse has been a top priority of mine and KRCC is an important piece toward solving that puzzle. Treatment efforts underway by the fine folks at KRCC, reveal how each and every person deserves a second chance and an opportunity to turn his or her life around.” KRCC was founded in 1969 and is a private, nonprofit Community Mental Health Center dedicated to improving the health and well-being of Breathitt, Lee, Wolfe, Owsley, Perry, Knott, Letcher and Leslie Counties. The center provides treatment to those struggling with mental health, developmental disabilities and substance abuse problems. Their services include assessment, referral, therapy, consultations, education, residential treatment, after care and case management. The HHS Center for Substance Abuse Treatment program is designed to foster the development and utilization of local recovery-oriented systems of care to address gaps in treatment capacity by supporting person-centered and self-directed approaches for substance abuse treatment and recovery services. The purpose of this program is to expand the community’s ability to provide integrated and comprehensive community-based responses to a targeted, well-documented substance abuse problem. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
09.13.2010	Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) reminded individuals today of the approaching September 21, 2010 deadline to request individual assistance from FEMA. Individuals in Pike County who were impacted by the flash flooding on July 17, 2010 are urged to submit their applications with FEMA as soon as possible. “I want to urge all eligible Pike County residents to register with FEMA as soon as possible,” said Rogers. “There is no doubt that more work remains as we continue to rebuild from the devastating July flash flooding. Therefore it is vital area families submit claims to FEMA by next week’s deadline in order to receive federal assistance which could include temporary housing, reconstruction assistance, and food allowance. As we continue the restoration process of getting our small businesses up and running and Pike County families back into their homes, I cannot stress enough how important it is to set aside time to sit down with FEMA agents and go over your storm-related losses.” FEMA will accept registrations for disaster assistance until Tuesday, September 21, 2010 at 6pm EST. Registering for disaster assistance is simple. Pike County residents can apply online anytime at www.disasterassistance.gov, or by phone at 800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 800-462-7585. People who have already registered can call the same number for the Helpline if they have questions or additional information to provide. FEMA recovery specialists and SBA representatives are providing in-person help at two Disaster Recovery Centers in Pike County. These centers will be open 8 am to 6pm daily until Friday, September 17, 2010, when they will close permanently. The centers are located adjacent to Community Funeral Home, 4902 Zebulon Highway, Pikeville, and in Riverside Apostolic Church, 10519 Regina Belcher Highway, Marrowbone (Elkhorn City). Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information on the Pike County flooding visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ConstituentServices/PikeCountyFlooding.htm .
09.10.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) has appointed eight community leaders from Southern and Eastern Kentucky to serve on Kentucky’s Fifth District Congressional Award Committee. The Congressional Award recognizes students who are active in their communities and helps them achieve goals they set to better themselves and the world around them. From public service, personal development, physical fitness and exploration, this prestigious program recognizes our youth for all their hard work and gives them the tools they need to succeed in life. “I am honored to be part of the Congressional Award program and I am grateful for each and every member serving on this District Committee,” said Rogers. “As coaches, teachers, mentors and more, these eight individuals are an inspiration to our students and will help them to achieve their dreams. When our young people know that they have the support of those around them, there is no limit to what they can achieve. I want to encourage each and every student throughout Southeastern Kentucky to participate in this program. The strength of our region is from our people, and I for one want to ensure that our future leaders are recognized for their hard work and have every opportunity available to them.” The Congressional Award was created by Congress in order to promote and recognize initiative, service and achievement in America’s youth. The Congressional Award provides a unique opportunity for young people to set and achieve personally challenging goals that build character and foster community service, personal development, and citizenship. All students are encouraged to participate and can register online at www.congressionalaward.org. The Congressional Award District Committee is made up of individuals from all parts of the region with different backgrounds. These individuals will be the voice of the program in their respective areas and will serve as a point of contact for students, teachers, mentors and individuals with questions. Students throughout the region are already active in sports teams, PRIDE and UNITE youth programs, volunteerism and more. It is the goal of the District Committee to reach out to these students and give them the opportunity to be recognized for all that they are currently doing within their communities. Members Appointed to Kentucky’s Fifth District Congressional Award Committee: • Ron Daley, Senior Director of Advancement and Government Relations for Hazard Community and Technical College, Board Member for Knott, Perry, Breathitt and Magoffin counties • Larry Sparks, Superintendent for Leslie County Schools, Board Member for Bell, Rowan, Menifee, Harlan and Leslie counties • Braxton King, Director for The Lord’s Gym, Board Member for Wayne, McCreary and Whitley counties • Scott Parkey, Football Coach for Rockcastle County High School, Board Member for Rockcastle and Jackson counties • Tony Tackett, Pikeville Tourism Director, Board Member for Pike, Martin, Floyd, Letcher and Morgan counties • Jennifer Carroll, Owsley County Instructional Supervisor and consultant for the Kentucky Department of Education, Board Member for Owsley, Lee, Wolfe, Johnson and Lawrence counties • Dr. Deann Allen, Clay County Instructional Supervisor, Board Member for Clay, Laurel and Knox counties • Jessica Melton, Director of Leadership and Training for the Center for Rural Development, Board Member for Pulaski county PHOTO: Amy Stroud, Board Members Braxton King, Larry Sparks, Ron Daily, Jennifer Carroll and Tony Tackett
09.09.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) was in Afghanistan last week to meet with soldiers, key leaders in the military, political and intelligence communities, and to review unit readiness, rotation of forces, equipment and logistical support, and to review ongoing operations in the theater. The visit came at a pivotal time for U.S. forces in Afghanistan as soldiers continue to focus on the fight against terrorism. “While in Afghanistan I had the opportunity to visit our brave men and women in uniform who are defending our American values in a harsh part of the world. I spoke with troops from Monticello to Paintsville and I’m happy to report that morale is high and that they are optimistic about the task at hand,” said Rogers. “I had several meetings with General Petraeus and was briefed by General Campbell of the 101st Airborne. I traveled to Bagram Air Force Base to visit wounded soldiers, flew to the Panjshir Province to meet with the Afghan Governor there, and traveled to Kabul. I also met with American Drug Force personnel to learn more about the drug war in Afghanistan which supplies 95% of the world’s poppy, a precursor to cocaine. While many challenges lie ahead, I am proud of all that our troops have accomplished, their valor in steadfastly defending our nation, and all the good work they are doing for the people of Afghanistan. My prayers are with our troops and their families. There is no doubt that we are in a battle of ideas to win the allegiance of the Afghani people away from the Taliban, but I believe that we are well-equipped to win that contest.” Rogers traveled with other Members on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressmen James Moran, Rodney Frelinghuysen and Tom Cole. While in Panjshir, Rogers saw the efforts of the Provincial Reconstruction Team and Kentucky Agribusiness Development Team II located there. He met with Provincial Governor Keramuddin Keram and visited with Jeff Casada and Josh Hancock, soldiers from his district that are working to improve agriculture throughout the Panjshir province. While in Bagram, Rogers received a briefing from General Campbell and met with Jason Joseph and Derek Dennis, soldiers that hail from Southeastern Kentucky. He was also able to visit wounded soldiers at Craig Hospital and thank them for their service. From examining the agricultural efforts that are improving techniques for local farmers, to learning more about Afghanistan’s fight against drugs and the implications that has on the United States, Congressman Rogers was able to see the improvements that are being made throughout Afghanistan because of the efforts of U.S. soldiers. Rogers saw that not only is morale high among U.S. soldiers deployed in Afghanistan, they are well trained, well equipped and optimistic about their mission ahead. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. As a former Kentucky National Guardsmen, he remains focused on homeland security through his role as Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and protecting the nation from potential terrorist attacks. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov. PHOTO of Congressman Rogers talking with troops PHOTO of Congressman Rogers with troops from Kentucky PHOTO of Congressman Rogers, the Congressional Delegation and General Petraeus
09.08.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) joined State Representative Rocky Adkins, Lawrence County Schools Superintendent Mike Armstrong and local officials for a ribbon-cutting ceremony in celebration of Blaine Elementary School’s new wastewater system. “This project is a prime example of local, state and federal leaders working together,” said Rogers. “When we found out about the poor condition of the wastewater system at Blaine Elementary, PRIDE stepped up with a vital grant to make sure the 226 students and their environment would be taken care of. Once funding was in place, the work was completed in only a few short weeks." PRIDE provided the Lawrence County Board of Education with a Wastewater Construction Grant of $30,000 to replace the old clay underground sewer line from Blaine Elementary to the local wastewater treatment plant. Officials with the Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection worked with the school system to develop a compliance schedule that would allow the school system to make the necessary repairs. “PRIDE is pleased to provide so many resources for our communities,” said Karen Engle, President and CEO of PRIDE. “We always celebrate our annual Spring Cleanup Events in April and Roadside PRIDE events every October, but PRIDE does so much more. We have really expanded our environmental education inside the classroom, but we must continue working to improve the environment around our students as well. PRIDE has invested more than $2.7 Million for things like education, homeowner septic systems and wastewater construction projects in Lawrence County and we’ll continue to be here for this community.” A record-breaking number of volunteers participated in the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup. More than 31,200 individuals picked up trash along roadways, lakes and streams in April. Rogers said that included more than 400 volunteers across Lawrence County cleaning 50 miles of roadway and removing 215 old tires. He also encouraged participation during the upcoming Roadside PRIDE event during the month of October. Congressman Rogers commended local leaders for their dedication to PRIDE, as well as support for Operation UNITE. Rogers presented “Hal Rogers Difference Maker” Awards to Lawrence County Sheriff Garrett Roberts and Chief Phillip Claxton with the Louisa City Police Department. Both agencies have worked diligently with the law enforcement officers at Operation UNITE to arrest suspected drug dealers in the county. To view photos from the event, click here and here.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $165,895 grant for the Pulaski County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Pulaski Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “From last year’s ice storms to this year’s torrential flooding, it is important that our educators in Pulaski County are ready to handle any natural disaster or emergency that may come their way,” said Rogers. “I applaud the Department of Education for providing this important resource to our schools. In these uncertain times it is comforting to know that our children are in safe and capable hands while they attend class. Our teachers have so much on their plate, and being afforded the opportunity to attend this emergency response training is one less thing they have to worry about while they focus on educating our young people.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in partnership with the Abandoned Mine Land and Kentucky Coal Severance funds will award $937,500 to the City of Jackson to upgrade its water systems. This project is expected to improve water services to 339 households and 186 businesses in the City of Jackson and surrounding Breathitt County. “Expanding our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” said Rogers. “These funds will vastly improve the quality of water flowing to our neighbors and businesses in Breathitt County through targeted enhancements at our local water treatment plant. Improving water services to hard working families will enhance the quality of life for all residents of Breathitt County and be a source of pride in our community.” ARC awarded the City of Jackson a $500,000 grant for the water system improvements project. The important funding will be supplemented by $250,000 from the Abandoned Mine Land fund, $150,000 from the Kentucky Coal Severance fund, and $37,500 from the City of Jackson – bringing the total project funding to $937,500. The City will use this funding to enhance the new water treatment plant with the construction of a 200,000 gallon storage tank, 5,440 linear feet of waterline, and a new pump station. Throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects in the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a grant for improvements at the London-Corbin Airport-Magee Field. The $250,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support several necessary upgrades, including an environmental assessment study for a proposed service road, an airport layout plan and new airfield guidance signs. “Investing in expanded transportation options is key to greater economic development, aircraft safety, and increased tourism for Laurel and Knox Counties,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward providing new opportunities for our region despite the challenging economic times every community is facing. I applaud the federal government for supporting our smaller airports and the leadership of Laurel and Knox County officials to continue to place a premium on quality general aviation services for the entire Cumberland Valley region.” This grant will fund an environmental assessment study to determine the impacts associated with a proposed service road. The grant will also assist the airport board in making future business decisions through the development of an airport layout plan. Finally, these funds will also support important upgrades to existing airfield guidance signs that are presently old and in constant need of repair. With 77 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, jets, glider plans and a helicopter, the London-Corbin Airport averages 43 aircraft operations per day—60% general aviation, 25% military and 14% air taxi. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a grant to support improvements at the Lake Cumberland Regional Airport. The $40,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will fund a variety of improvements, including the construction of a fuel farm and the removal of underground storage tanks. “Investing in expanded transportation options is key to greater economic development and increased tourism for Pulaski County,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward providing new opportunities for our region despite the challenging economic times. I applaud the federal government for supporting our smaller airports so that our region has better access to transportation options.” Since FY01, Rogers has secured over $17 million for improvements to the Lake Cumberland Regional Airport. This grant will be used to address shortfalls with the existing fuel system at the airport through the design of a new fuel farm. Once completed, the new fuel farm will store the necessary fuel for aircraft on site, improving air quality and roadway safety by eliminating the need for regular deliveries of fuel. With 28 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, helicopters and a jet, the airport averages 76 aircraft operations per day – 66% transient general aviation, 33% local general aviation and 1% military. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a grant for improvements at the McCreary County Airport. The $96,435 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the design of a new fuel farm, as well as the installation of safety-enhancing perimeter fencing. “This is great and welcome news for McCreary County,” said Rogers. “Investments in planning and safety will move this important regional airport forward in the midst of difficult economic times. I applaud the federal government for supporting our smaller airports and the leadership of McCreary County airport officials in seeking out these funding opportunities. With our growing and improving network of general aviation airports, we are making great strides to bring businesses and travelers to our region.” Some of the funding will support the installation of perimeter fencing, deterring unauthorized access and wildlife from entering the airfield. The remainder of the funds will be used to address shortfalls with the existing fuel system at the airport through the design of a new 100 gallon fuel system, or fuel farm. Once completed, the new fuel farm will store the necessary fuel for aircraft on site, improving air quality and roadway safety by eliminating the need for regular deliveries of fuel. With two single-engine aircraft based on the field, the McCreary County Airport averages 25 aircraft operations per week, almost exclusively general aviation. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in partnership with the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority and other local entities, will award $768,000 to the Whitley County Water District water system improvement project, expected to result in new service for 72 households. “Expanding our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” said Rogers. “These funds will extend waterlines to more of our neighbors in Whitley County so that they no longer have to rely on contaminated well water. Improving water services to hard working families will enhance the quality of life in Whitley County.” ARC awarded the Whitley County Water District a $384,000 grant for the water system improvements project. In addition to this funding, the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority is providing a $354,000 grant, and local sources are providing a $30,000 from tap fees, bringing the total project funding to $768,000. The Whitley County Water District requested the funding to extend waterlines by 38,400 linear feet along six rural roads in the county. The project is critical for the Water District to extend water service to unserved areas and regionalize the water distribution system. Throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects in the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. To date, Rogers has secured more than $193 million for these important initiatives. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $147,500 grant for the Perry County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Perry Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “From last year’s ice storms to this year’s torrential flooding, it is important that our educators in Perry County are ready to handle any natural disaster or emergency that may come their way,” said Rogers. “I applaud the Department of Education for providing this important resource to our schools. In these uncertain times it is comforting to know that our children are in safe and capable hands while they attend class. Our teachers have so much on their plate, and being afforded the opportunity to attend this emergency response training is one less thing they have to worry about while they focus on educating our young people.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to support improvements at the Williamsburg-Whitley County Airport. The $300,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the construction of a ten unit T-Hangar building to accommodate the increasing demand for hangar space in the region. “Investing in expanded transportation options is key to greater economic development and increased tourism for Whitley County,” said Rogers. “This grant will go a long way toward providing new hangar facilities for pilot owners and operators and the growing demand for hangar space is a testament to the hard working leaders of this southern Kentucky community who remain dedicated to improving the region.” In response to increasing demand for hangar space at the Williamsburg-Whitley County Airport, this FAA grant will support the construction of a ten unit T-Hangar building. The Williamsburg-Whitley County Airport is four miles northwest of Williamsburg, Ky. With 7 aircraft based on the field, including single- and multi-engine aircraft and a helicopter, the airport averages 100 aircraft operations per year, almost exclusively general aviation. Since FY02, Rogers has secured $5.65 million for improvements to this airport. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $150,000 grant for the Breathitt County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Breathitt Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “From last year’s ice storms to this year’s torrential flooding, it is important that our educators in Breathitt County are ready to handle any natural disaster or emergency that may come their way,” said Rogers. “I applaud the Department of Education for providing this important resource to our schools. In these uncertain times it is comforting to know that our children are in safe and capable hands while they attend class. Our teachers have so much on their plate, and being afforded the opportunity to attend this emergency response training is one less thing they have to worry about while they focus on educating our young people.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in conjunction with other local entities, will award $300,000 to the City of Lynch to restore the old Lynch Firehouse as a visitor’s center, complete with restrooms and a meeting facility. The project is expected to enhance the overall guest experience for the projected 20,000 annual visitors to local tourist destinations, including the nearby Portal 31 Mine Tour. “Investing in our local communities is the best way to improve economic development and increase tourism,” said Rogers. “I know our region is facing tough economic times, but this grant will go a long way towards attracting more visitors to the area which will help our small businesses. I applaud ARC for recognizing the importance of our rural communities and ensuring that they are awarded opportunities to help the local economy and educate visitors about the unique coal history and cultural heritage of our region.” ARC awarded the City of Lynch a $240,000 grant to restore the Old Lynch Firehouse. In addition to this funding, local sources will provide $60,000, bringing the total project funding to $300,000. The Old Lynch Firehouse, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, dates to the 1920’s and is adjacent to the Portal 31 Mine, for which Rogers secured $500,000 in direct funding in 2006. This ARC project will support the continued diversification of the local economy and promote economic development through an expanded tourism base. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in partnership with the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority, will award $787,390 to the City of Frenchburg to support the city’s Wastewater Treatment Plant Belt Filter Press project. This project is expected to improve water services to 182 households and 67 businesses. “Expanding our water system infrastructure and wastewater treatment facilities is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” said Rogers. “These funds will improve water service for our neighbors and businesses in Menifee County so that they no longer have to rely on inefficient and contaminated water treatment techniques. Improving water services to hard working families will enhance the quality of life in Menifee County.” ARC awarded Frenchburg a $500,000 grant for the wastewater treatment improvement project, which is to be supplemented by $287,390 from the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority – bringing the total project funding to $787,390. The City of Frenchburg currently relies on drying beds for the dewatering of sewage sludge at the wastewater treatment plant. The treatment plant’s drying bed process is not efficient during the wet winter months or rainy weather. Moreover, the city’s wastewater treatment plant discharges into Beaver Creek. The city will use these funds to construct a building enclosure and a skid mounted belt filter press at the Frenchburg wastewater treatment plant so that plant operators can more effectively control sludge buildup and reduce the discharge of pollutants into Beaver Creek. Throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects in the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $150,000 grant for the Wolfe County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Wolfe Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “From last year’s ice storms to this year’s torrential flooding, it is important that our educators in Wolfe County are ready to handle any natural disaster or emergency that may come their way,” said Rogers. “I applaud the Department of Education for providing this important resource to our schools. In these uncertain times it is comforting to know that our children are in safe and capable hands while they attend class. Our teachers have so much on their plate, and being afforded the opportunity to attend this emergency response training is one less thing they have to worry about while they focus on educating our young people.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), in partnership with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority and the Kentucky Coal Severance fund, will award $1,648,973 to the City of Salyersville to upgrade the region’s water systems. This project is expected to improve water services to 3,900 households and 123 businesses. “Expanding our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” said Rogers. “These funds will extend waterlines to more of our neighbors and businesses in Magoffin County so that they no longer have to rely on aging waterlines. Improving water services to hard working families will enhance the quality of life in Magoffin County.” ARC awarded Salyersville a $404,209 grant for the water system improvements project. This funding will be supplemented by a $350,000 Kentucky Infrastructure Authority grant, a $600,000 HUD Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), $250,000 from the Kentucky Coal Severance fund and $44,764 to be rolled over from previous water projects – bringing total project funding to $1,648,973. The City of Salyersville will use this funding to complete the replacement of an aging water main and will replace undersized water mains throughout the city. HUD’s CDBG program provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. Throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects in the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. To date, Rogers has secured more than $193 million for these important initiatives. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) reflected on the high number of overdose deaths in the Fifth Congressional District and the increased amount of meth lab discoveries in and around the I-75 corridor to relay the urgency of support needed for the Whitley County UNITE Coalition on Wednesday, August 11th during a luncheon at the Williamsburg Tourism Center. “We need your help to deliver hope to Whitley County,” said Rogers to the crowd of 175 people. “On average, there is one overdose death per week in every county in our region. We can help save those lives, but everyone needs to get involved with the local UNITE coalition.” To commend local leaders for their dedication to Operation UNITE and PRIDE, Rogers presented seven “Hal Rogers Difference Maker” Awards. The awards were presented to: Williamsburg City Police Department; Hon. Cathy Prewitt, Chief District Judge and volunteer Juvenile Drug Court Judge for Whitley and McCreary Counties; Jennie Richardson, National Archery in the Schools Program Coordinator for Kentucky; Heather Alder Stewart, PRIDE Coordinator for Whitley County Schools; Willa Powers, Coordinator for Cumberland Falls and Laurel Lake Cleanups; Greg and Susie Razmus, sponsor for the Cumberland Falls Cleanup and Corbin Bypass Cleanup; Alvin Sharpe, Williamsburg Tourism Director. Rogers presented a framed copy of a Congressional Tribute he made on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on behalf of former Whitley County Schools Superintendent, Lonnie Anderson. Congressman Rogers credited Anderson for saving the once-troubled school system from bankruptcy and creating programs to improve not only the education, but the lives of local students and families. His remarks are recorded in the U.S. Library of Congress. Rogers also announced 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup results for Whitley County. Volunteers cleaned 80 miles of roadway, recovered 348 old tires and collected 1,235 bags of trash during the month of April. Rogers presented Williamsburg Independent with the First Place Trophy for recruiting 767 volunteers, the most in the school division, for the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup. The Second Place Trophy was awarded to Corbin High School for recruiting 290 volunteers. “Our region is being restored back to its natural beauty, thanks to the people who live and work here,” said Karen Engle, President and CEO of PRIDE and Operation UNITE. “With the help of volunteers our hillsides and streams are much more inviting. Each year, we are making a bigger difference.” A record-breaking number of volunteers participated in the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup. More than 31,200 individuals picked up trash along roadways, lakes and streams in April. Rogers also encouraged participation during the upcoming Roadside PRIDE event during the month of October.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Somerset Community College has been awarded a $220,000 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, education, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a United States Department of Agriculture- Rural Development (USDA-RD) Community Facility Grant has been awarded to Whitley County’s Cedaridge Ministries in the amount of $54,348. The funds will be used to replace the roof on the Cedaridge Ministries building and to purchase a 2004 Caterpillar forklift to unload food items from tractor trailers. “Cedaridge Ministries is bringing hope to so many people throughout Whitley County,” stated Rogers. “This funding is well deserved and I applaud USDA-RD for supporting our local non-profit groups that go above and beyond to provide for those in need. Whether it is during an emergency or just helping a neighbor in need, Cedaridge Ministries is feeding the hungry and providing meaningful relief to those who may be struggling to get back on their feet.” The Community Facility Grant is funded by the USDA to essential community facilities. The grants are available to assist in the development of facilities in rural areas and towns of up to 50,000 in population. Through the Community Facility Grant, the USDA is striving to ensure all rural Americans have access to facilities like Cedaridge Ministries and is committed to creating stronger rural communities across the nation. Cedaridge Ministries operates a local food pantry and emergency food bank in Williamsburg, Kentucky. In addition to food distribution services, they also distribute clothes and operate a thrift store for the 5,143 citizens of Williamsburg and for the surrounding rural areas of Whitley County. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Pikeville College has been awarded a $255,505 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Hazard Community and Technical College has been awarded a $318,071 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Union College has been awarded a $301,692 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, education, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Morehead State University has been awarded a $340,880 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, education, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Southeast Kentucky Community and Technical College has been awarded a $293,021 grant under the United States Department of Education Student Support Services Program. The is a five year grant that is intended to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students. “Everyone has the right to a proper education regardless of their income level,” said Rogers. “Especially in these tough economic times, scholarship and education assistance funds go a long way toward building tomorrow’s leaders and equipping students with the tools for success. I am pleased to see that the Department of Education is supporting our students right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. By assisting these individuals we are paving the way for a brighter future.” The Student Support Services Program’s purpose is to help increases student retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster a supportive climate of success for these students. This program includes instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in four-year institutions, assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate and professional programs, guidance on career options, mentoring and special services for students with limited English proficiency, and grant aid. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, education, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.10.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Labor reported that 131,000 jobs were lost in July, keeping the high unemployment rate at 9.5% nationally: “The numbers speak for themselves; Washington’s out-of-touch economic “plan” is failing. Costly and absurd regulations, unfunded mandates, porous immigration policies, and talk of tax increases are crippling our economy and our ability to spur innovation and employment. In this job-killing environment, small businesses, the true job creators of our country, are losing the battle to produce lasting jobs and generate real economic recovery. Enough is enough. Congress needs to stop spending taxpayer money it doesn’t have and pass a budget that reflects the reality of our current fiscal situation. With record deficits, a soaring debt and high unemployment, we don’t need more of the same; we need to empower our small businesses so that we can put America back to work.”
08.06.2010	Today U.S. Representative Hal Rogers (KY-05) visited Perry and Leslie Counties to recognize community leaders and to announce Operation UNITE's new resource in the war against drugs. Congressman Rogers joined Operation UNITE for "Clean Out Your Medicine Cabinet" Day in Perry County. The Kentucky Army National Guard is lending UNITE two incinerators to destroy prescription pills that are out-of-date or unwanted. UNITE dubbed the incinerators the "Pill Dragons." "One of our biggest battles in the fight against drugs begins in medicine cabinets across the region," said Rogers. "Unused or out of date prescription drugs are sometimes abused by family members or friends who find them right inside our homes. Now, we can dispose of those drugs safely by burning them in these units." Residents dropped off more than 1,600 prescription pills to be burned. Local law enforcement agencies also used the incinerator to dispose of old evidence from closed criminal cases. "The incinerator provides a double service to our region," said Karen Engle, President and CEO of Operation UNITE and PRIDE. "We are destroying drugs that could fall into the hands of abusers and we're doing it in an environmentally safe way. Flushing old medications has become a household habit that we need to break before our water system becomes heavily polluted by prescription pills." The two incinerators will be housed in Laurel and Pike Counties for use in all 29 counties across Kentucky's 5th Congressional District. Congressman Rogers also presented several awards in Perry and Leslie Counties. The Perry County Fiscal Court received the PRIDE 1st Place Trophy for recruiting the most volunteers county-wide during the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup in April with nearly 4,000 volunteers. The City of Hyden won the 1st Place Trophy for having the most volunteers in a city with more than 700 people. Rogers encouraged each community to continue volunteering for UNITE and rallied participation for the upcoming Roadside PRIDE events in October. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.05.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) addressed Chamber members and community leaders during the Morehead-Rowan County Chamber of Commerce monthly meeting. Rogers commended community leaders for organizing strong relief efforts during the county’s recent floods. He also announced funding for several local projects and rallied greater participation with the region’s anti-drug initiative, Operation UNITE. “The Rowan County Conference Center represents so much more today for the local community than it did six months ago,” said Rogers. “Just like hundreds of families in Rowan County, the Conference Center suffered flooding damage, but today it was filled with dozens of hopeful people and inspired leaders determined to move this thriving community forward. I was happy to share the news of some newly available funding to assist in economic development efforts as we rebuild and commit to better things in the days and months ahead.” Rogers delivered a check for $902,500 for a new 1.8 mile access road from KY 801 to the Clyde A. Thomas Regional Airport. Rogers has been working with the Airport Board, State Legislators and Local Government Officials to secure funding for multiple improvements to the new airport since 2007. Airport board members expect the new access road to be complete before the end of the year. Rogers announced St. Claire Regional Family Medicine in Morehead, Kentucky will receive a $99,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to enhance preventive and therapeutic services. The clinic’s service area covers eight counties, where 75% of the population is medically underserved. “This project is absolutely necessary for the region,” said Rogers. “Helping our communities lead healthy lifestyles through preventative medicine and other services are key to treating future problems and ensuring longer, more productive lives. The focus on preventative medicine will also keep health care costs low and ensure more positive results. I am glad that HHS is providing this funding so that the people of Morehead can enjoy a higher quality of life.” The clinic will serve as the primary training site for the St. Claire Regional Family Medicine Residency program. To improve healthcare access and address the healthcare provider shortage of our region, the residency program trains physicians within our region. Equipment will be purchased to improve clinical operations and enhance teaching efforts for residents and other health professions. The HHS funds will also enable St. Claire Regional Family Medicine to participate more broadly in the St. Claire Regional disaster plan as a triage and treatment site in the event of a disaster. Congressman Rogers also shared information about ongoing efforts on the frontlines of the region’s war against drugs. “UNITE’s three-pronged approach to battle drugs through investigations, treatment and education is working,” added Rogers. “I am asking local leaders in every county to appoint UNITE Ambassadors to join our mission. We need more people who are passionate about saving our loved ones seemingly enchained by the grip of addiction and educating our next generation before they suffer the same fate.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.04.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Knott County Board of Education has been selected to receive a $475,366 grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s Teaching American History Grants Program. Over five years the grant, in partnership with the Kentucky Historical Society and Morehead State University, will provide additional education to fifteen elementary, middle and high school teachers each year in order to increase their knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of traditional American history. “Education is a top priority and providing our teachers with more opportunities to grow will ensure that our students have access to a top-notch education,” said Rogers. “When our teachers are inspired by our nation’s history, they bring that passion to the classroom and motivate our students to learn more and excel at school. I applaud the Department of Education for investing in Knott County, our teachers are some of the best and I know they will utilize this tremendous resource to its fullest potential.” The program is designed to raise student achievement by improving a teacher’s knowledge, understanding, and appreciation for traditional U.S. history. The participating teachers will be introduced to national, state and local history resources, place those resources in historical context and empower teachers to use them positively to impact student achievement in American history. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.04.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) welcomed more than 130 members of the Kentucky Tourism Council to Southern Kentucky at the Cumberland Falls State Resort Park during its annual meeting. Congressman Rogers encouraged members to work together to entice incoming tourists at the World Equestrian Games to visit other parts of the state in September and October. “Tourism is our third largest industry and we want those travelers from around the world to experience our beautiful natural attractions, like Cumberland Falls,” said Rogers. “TOUR Southern and Eastern Kentucky (TOUR SEKY) has been busy training more than 10,000 frontline customer service employees on how to direct travelers to nearby attractions in each county. The southern hospitality we offer at department stores, gas stations and restaurants will pay off during the World Equestrian Games and beyond.” Rogers also helped PRIDE kick off its new Speaker’s Bureau during the first training session at the Cumberland Valley Area Development District office in London, Kentucky. “We live in such a fast-paced world that we sometimes lose the personal connection we need to get out the message on important issues like cleaning up our region and taking care of our environment,” said Rogers. “Our trained speakers will become the voice of PRIDE’s education component, reaching into schools and communities that otherwise may not comprehend the full impact of taking personal responsibility to cleanup our region.” Rogers commended the Laurel County Fiscal Court and Judge Executive Lawrence Kuhl for contributing $6,500 to the Environmental Education Liaison program for the 2010-2011 school year. 4,400 students in Laurel County benefited from the program last year alone. He also presented Judge Kuhl and PRIDE Coordinator Jim Ed McDaniel with the second place trophy for recruiting the most volunteers from a county for the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup. 2,104 volunteers from Laurel County participated in the environmental cleanup in April. Rogers also announced a $22,000 Environmental Education Contract that PRIDE awarded to Laurel County Schools. The funding will be divided between five schools to use for environmental education. The following schools will receive $4,000 each: London Elementary, North Laurel Middle School, South Laurel High School and Sublimity Elementary. The Laurel County Fiscal Court will receive $4,000 and Bush Elementary will receive $2,000. Laurel County Public Works Director, Steve Edge received an Environmental Leadership Award for his continued efforts to improve recycling habits in Laurel County and for forging the dream to bring curbside recycling to the entire City of London. The county saves up to $25,000 each month due to the residents’ fluent recycling. Curbside recycling should be available in London early next year. Congressman Rogers presented all of the PRIDE Coordinators at the Speaker’s Bureau Training with a special “Hal Rogers Difference Maker” Award today. Thanks to their efforts, an unprecedented 31,200 volunteers helped cleanup Southern and Eastern Kentucky during the 2010 PRIDE Spring Cleanup and more than 618,000 students now have access to hands-on environmental education tools. “Hal Rogers Difference Makers” Awards were presented to the following PRIDE Coordinators: Tim Bell, Wayne County; H.M. Bottom, Russell County; Sarah Brown, City of Jenkins; Lucy Burroughs, Owsley County; Rosa Couch, Perry County; Brent Graden, Floyd County; April Haight, Rowan County; Bruce Hatton, Wolfe County; Jim Ed McDaniel, Laurel County; Steve Edge, City of London; Amy Mink, City of Burnside; Angie Muncy, Leslie County; Heather Alder Stewart, Whitley County Schools; Wendy Thompson, City of Barbourville; Sharon Watterson, Lee County; James Renner, Rockcastle County; Jill Medley, Mt. Vernon; A.L. Sinclair, Adair County and PRIDE Board Member; Lisa Lee, Adair County; Debra McNear, Taylor County. Rogers also presented an American flag in memory of PRIDE’s first-ever coordinator Mike Pollard, to his widow Elaine. Pollard served as the Leslie County PRIDE Coordinator and helped establish the mission of coordinators across the region. “We miss Mike’s enthusiasm and dedication at PRIDE,” said Rogers. “If everyone shared the same commitment Mike had to keep our region clean, we would have a greater impact on our environment year-round.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.04.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is awarding a $170,000 airport improvement grant to the West Liberty Airport. The grant will fund property enhancements required to construct a new Runway Safety Area to meet FAA standards. “This grant will allow West Liberty Airport to improve current runway conditions, which is a major step in the right direction to open up Morgan County and the surrounding communities to additional transportation options,” said Rogers. “I am glad to see that the federal government working with our small towns and rural areas to address their needs. These funds are essential for our smaller general aviation airports, which serve as critical job creators and are instrumental in attracting businesses to invest in our region.” Grants are awarded through the FAA, a division of the U.S. Department of Transportation responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
08.03.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) stopped by the Highlands Center for Autism in Prestonsburg and the Roy F. Collier Community Center in Inez. At the Highlands Center for Autism, Rogers met with families whose children attend the school and saw the progress being made. While in Martin County, Rogers visited the Roy F. Collier Community Center to see the “Martin County on the Move" health outreach project by Morehead State University (MSU). “I am encouraged by all that I have seen today,” said Rogers. “The Highlands Center for Autism is bringing hope to so many families who had nowhere left to turn. Their children are receiving an excellent education and have access to state-of-the-art medical resources and information. I also want to applaud MSU for their efforts in Martin County. The Collier Center now offers several programs that encourage healthy lifestyles, improve the well-being of our families, and will go a long way towards combating health problems that have plagued our region for far too long.” The Highland Regional Medical Center in Prestonsburg recently established the Highlands Center for Autism. The Center operates as a year-round private day school and accepts students diagnosed with autism from first diagnosis through school age. MSU has established “Martin County on the Move” through the Roy F. Collier Community Center in order to work with community leaders, schools and businesses to draw attention to healthy lifestyle choices and combat the region’s high rate of diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. Community programs such as Operation Slimdown, Healthy Living Series, Fun Fitness Camp, and Community Walking Programs are being held at the Collier Center. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.29.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to improve Hazard’s Wendell H. Ford Airport. The $40,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will support the rehabilitation of the runway, resulting in enhanced safety for aircraft operations. “Our Perry County pilots deserve to have the best conditions possible in order to keep take-off and landing aircraft and passengers out of harm's way,” said Rogers. “This rehabilitation at the airport addresses known runway flaws and affirms our commitment to aviation safety. I applaud the Department of Transportation for recognizing the importance of our rural airports and for giving these communities the tools necessary to meet the highest standards.” These funds will allow the Hazard/Perry County Airport Board to undertake much needed repairs to the runway, where ponding of water has created safety concerns. With 33 aircraft based on its field, including single-engine airplanes, multi-engine airplanes, jets and a helicopter, the Wendell H. Ford Airport averages 28 aircraft operations per day. Since 2009, Rogers has also secured $642,500 to support the Hazard/Perry County Airport Board in developing a critically-needed instrument landing system at the airport, which provides guidance to aircraft approaching the runway and aids in the landing of the aircraft. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.29.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to improve the Pike County Regional Airport-Hatcher Field. The $190,097 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will enable the Pike County Airport Board to design a new taxiway at the airport. “Eastern Kentucky depends on a robust and safe general aviation system to realize future growth opportunities,” said Rogers. “These design funds will set in motion needed safety improvements at Hatcher Field and increase the long term viability of this Pike County airport. I applaud the Department of Transportation for recognizing the importance of our rural airports and for taking action to ensure these communities have the resources necessary.” These grant funds will support the design phase of a parallel taxiway, which is necessary to eliminate the need to taxi aircraft on the runway. The Pike County Regional Airport-Hatcher Field is 6 miles northwest of Pikeville, Ky. With 23 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, the Pike County Regional Airport supports 24 aircraft operations per day. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.23.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the National Science Foundation has awarded Union College in Barbourville, Kentucky with $67,950 in scholarships for academically-talented students recruited from southeastern Kentucky. This project will establish math and science scholarships in order to increase the number of financially disadvantaged students from the Cumberland Valley Area Development District which includes Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Rockcastle, and Whitley Counties. “Education is a top priority for our state,” said Rogers. “Not only does it better each and every individual in Kentucky, but it helps the Commonwealth as a whole as it boosts the economy and improves the quality of life. I am happy to see that Union College will be able to help more individuals excel in the areas of math and science. There are many students who face the added pressure of financial difficulties in these challenging economic times, so it refreshing to know that these funds will go directly to students who are in the most need.” The grant will cover approximately 15 scholarships and the program will seek to increase retention and graduation rates by the assignment of students to academic advisors and peer mentors, being enrolled in designated sections of key courses, participating in field trips, service-learning opportunities, and career planning and placement process. Rogers has served Kentucky's 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia's natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.23.2010	On Tuesday, July 20, during the 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Mark-up, the House Appropriations Committee unanimously approved an amendment authored by Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and offered by Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10). Rogers released the following statement regarding this amendment, which directs the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to report on the feasibility of participating in state-run prescription drug monitoring programs: “First I want to thank Congressman Frank Wolf for his tireless support to stop the epidemic of prescription drug abuse,” said Rogers. “For decades, I have witnessed first-hand the devastation wrought by the diversion and abuse of otherwise legal and life-changing prescription drugs in Appalachian Kentucky, and now the abuse of prescription painkillers is the fastest growing drug problem nationwide. When I learned that prescription drug abuse was running rampant among our troops returning from combat, I wanted to ensure that we were doing everything in our power to see they are getting the best possible care. Prescription drug monitoring programs are an important part of the solution, since they enable doctors to more easily identify soldiers and veterans at risk for abuse or in need of treatment. I firmly believe the VA should continue to utilize these valuable tools, which are already at its disposal in most states. Our brave men and women have sacrificed so much, the least we can do is help our solders back on the road to recovery.” State-run prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMP) facilitate the exchange of prescription information among pharmacists, physicians and authorized law enforcement personnel, helping medical practitioners to more easily identify symptoms of addiction and also preventing drugs from being diverted on the streets. Currently, 34 states have operational PDMPs and 10 other states and territories have authorized the creation of such a program. Until 2009, the VA was a willing participant in state-run PDMPs. The amendment directs the VA to report within 60 days of enactment of the bill on the feasibility of reinstituting its participation in PDMPs and to highlight any legal or administrative barriers that Congress may address to resolve this issue in the future. Rogers is a founding member and co-chair of the recently created Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse, which aims to unite like-minded policy-makers in their efforts to raise awareness of abuse, and to work towards innovative and effective policy solutions incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research.
07.22.2010	Today, in support of Governor Beshear’s July 21, 2010 request for a federal disaster declaration, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and the entire Kentucky Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Obama urging him to designate Pike County as a federal disaster area. On July 17, 2010 Pike County experienced torrential rain and flash flooding which overwhelmed the area. The Commonwealth of Kentucky and Pike County Judge Executive have already declared a state of emergency in this area. If federal disaster assistance is made available, eligible families and communities devastated by the severe flash flooding may receive relief. “The flash flooding in Pike County is absolutely devastating. My prayers go out to those who lost loved ones in this horrendous disaster,” said Rogers. “I want to assure the people of Pike County that they will not be forgotten. I, along with my colleagues, will remain vigilant and utilize every available resource so that homes can be rebuilt, businesses can be re-opened, and families can begin to heal from this tragic flood. I know that many challenges lie ahead, but I will continue to press the President for help and work with local organizations to deliver much needed supplies to the region.” Following a major incident, state and federal officials conduct a preliminary damage assessment (PDA) to estimate the extent of the disaster and its impact on individuals and public facilities. State officials have indicated that Federal Emergency Management Agency damage assessment teams are currently in Kentucky conducting evaluations. The Governor's initial request letter of July 21, 2010 indicates that this flood and high-water disaster is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of state and local governments and that federal assistance is necessary. Based on the Governor's request, the President may declare that a major disaster or emergency exists, thus activating an array of federal programs to assist in the response and recovery effort. Several other counties in the region were also impacted from the storms, and the letter today urges the President to consider additional designations in a timely manner should Governor Beshear request those in the future.
07.22.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has awarded an additional $5,061 toward the rehabilitation of a baseball field in Whitley City, Kentucky. This newly renovated field will provide athletic activities for the youth of McCreary County. "This project is well deserved by the region and will greatly benefit children and families throughout McCreary County," said Rogers. "I am grateful for USDA's continued support and this funding will go a long way toward bringing healthy activities to the region. Building on the great success of the Lord’s Gym, young people in McCreary County will soon have another outlet for extracurricular activities and will be encouraged to live healthy, active, and drug-free lifestyles. This is another important step toward improving the quality of life in our region." The USDA-RD funds are in addition to a $21,168 USDA Rural Development Community Facility Grant and $8,743 from Lord's Gym to improve this previously abandoned baseball field. Rogers has served Kentucky's 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia's natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture - Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $73,604 grant for the city of Mt. Vernon Police Department to purchase two new 2010 Ford Explorers and one new 2010 Ford Crown Victoria. The vehicles will be used to provide efficient and effective emergency and law enforcement services for the 2,596 citizens of Mt. Vernon and for the surrounding areas of Rockcastle County. “Providing our police departments with equipment to adequately deal with any emergency situation is essential to protecting each and every Kentuckian,” said Rogers. “Reliable transportation for our police officers is critical to solving problems, getting through rough terrain, responding quickly to an accident, and allowing these first responders to focus on their jobs, not their cars. This USDA investment in Rockcastle County is a step in the right direction and I am continually impressed by the loyal friendships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region of Southern and Eastern Kentucky.” The USDA-RD community facilities grant program assists small towns and rural areas of up to 20,000 in population in equipping, improving, and constructing community facilities for health care, public safety and other public services. Grants are awarded to municipalities, counties and non-profit corporations, and areas with low population and low income receive preference in the evaluation of grant applications. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.20.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to improve the Big Sandy Regional Airport. The $367,144 Federal Aviation Administration grant will fund a variety of improvements, including the rehabilitation of the runway, taxiway and apron. “Improving the Big Sandy Airport is an important step to opening up Martin County to greater transportation options, which in turn spur economic development, job growth and tourism throughout the area,” said Rogers. “It is important for our federal government to recognize the importance of our rural airports and I am pleased to see that the Department of Transportation has invested in the Big Sandy region. The community has worked hard to expand transportation in the region which is vitally important in these challenging times.” These grant funds will support new sealant and paint for the runway, taxiway and airport ramp at Big Sandy. Due to cracks in the pavement, the repairs will be necessary to extend the life of the existing pavement before the Airport Board undertakes a major pavement rehabilitation project in the future. The Big Sandy Regional Airport is 9 miles northeast of Prestonsburg, Ky. With 17 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, two helicopters and a jet, the Big Sandy Regional Airport averages 132 aircraft operations per week, 48% local general aviation, 35% transient general aviation, 13% air tax and 4% military. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.20.2010	Today, Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) will serve as Major General and Mrs. Vaughn A. Ary’s Guest of Honor at the United States Marine Corps Sunset Parade in Arlington, Virginia. The Sunset Parade has been a long tradition of the Marines and it is a rare privilege to be chosen as the Guest of Honor. “I am deeply honored to attend this evening’s Sunset Parade,” said Rogers. “The men and women serving in the United States Marine Corps are instilled with the core values of honor, courage, and commitment and tonight’s parade pays tributes to the lives that were lost to preserve our nation’s freedom and liberty. I am proud to be a part of this Marine tradition and I am grateful for all those who are serving our nation during this time of war.” Major General Vaughn Ary is the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the United States Marine Corps and asked Congressman Rogers to serve as tonight’s Guest of Honor. The Sunset Parade features the United States Marine Drum and Bugle Corps and precision drill by the Marine Corps Silent Drill Platoon. On Nov. 10, 1954, the 179th birthday of the United States Marine Corps, a bronze monument modeled after the famous photo of the flag raising on Mount Suribachi, Iwo Jima, was unveiled at the Arlington National Cemetery. President Dwight D. Eisenhower dedicated the U.S. Marine Corps War Memorial to all Marines who had died to keep their country free. Since September 1956, marching and musical units from Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C., have been paying tribute to those whose "Uncommon valor was a common virtue" by presenting Sunset Parades in the shadow of the 32-foot high figures of the United States Marine Corps War Memorial.
07.16.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded funds to improve the Tucker Guthrie Memorial Airport. The $190,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will fund an Automated Weather Observation System (AWOS) which offers more precise weather data to pilots who use this Harlan County airport. “Ensuring that our pilots have the latest technology available to them is essential to keeping travelers safe,” said Rogers. “This upgrade at the Tucker Guthrie Memorial Airport improves on the long tradition of general aviation in our region. I applaud the Department of Transportation for recognizing the importance of our rural airports and for taking action to ensure that they have the resources necessary to support the local community and provide aviators with accurate weather and safety information.” Automated Weather Observation Systems are operated by FAA and considered highly efficient and cost-effective tools to ensure pilots receive the most accurate weather conditions available. An AWOS promotes safer flight operations by making available to pilots real-time data about weather variables such as visibility, wind speed and direction, atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity and precipitation. With 12 aircraft based on its field, including single- and multi-engine airplanes, the Tucker Guthrie Airport averages 107 aircraft operations per week, 86% general aviation. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.16.2010	Today, Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Hal Rogers (KY-05) issued the following statements in response to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) report released yesterday that shows a 400 percent increase between 1998 and 2008 in the number of people admitted for treatment of prescription drug abuse (of all substance abuse admissions). This alarming figure illustrates how serious and dangerous prescription drug abuse is to Americans, especially to our youth,” said Bono Mack. “Prescription drugs have become the drug of choice because of easy access - with over half the people abusing prescription pain relievers getting them from family and friends. We have to work on all levels to fight this disturbing trend through education, working with law enforcement, and putting policies in place to better prevent abuse. I am proud to have formed the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse with Congressman Hal Rogers in June. We have a lot of hard work to do to fight this growing problem.” “This report confirms that the epidemic of prescription drug abuse is increasing at alarming rates in communities small and large and makes the case that we need to address this issue at all levels of government, including the strategic linking of robust state monitoring programs,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “Congress needs to put pressure on the FDA to wake up to the havoc that the diversion of Oxycontin, Xanax, and similar prescription drugs can wreak on families and communities across our nation. Similarly, we need to give state and local law enforcement the tools necessary to go after pain pill mills and rogue Internet pharmacies to curb the influx of these drugs. I look forward to the Caucus' continued collaboration with SAMHSA and the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to raise awareness among my colleagues in Congress, the health community, and all Americans about the addictive dangers behind the medicine cabinet.” The SAMHSA report found a fourfold increase in the number of people 12 years old and over admitted for prescription pain reliever abuse treatment between 1998 and 2008. The report found that this increase was especially pronounced among those aged 18 to 24, where the percentage of all admissions for abuse of prescription pain relievers skyrocketed from 1.5 percent in 1998 to 13.7 percent in 2008. The report notes that these trends cross socio-economic, geographic, ethnic and educational status. It also notes that nonmedical users of prescription pain relievers mostly obtained the medication from a friend or family member. In conjunction with the release of the report, at a joint press conference, ONDCP, SAMHSA, and Delaware Governor Jack Markell noted the need for interoperable state prescription drug monitoring programs to assist physicians when making prescribing decisions and reduce the illicit diversion of these drugs at the street level. Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack and Congressman Hal Rogers (KY) launched the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse on June 3, 2010. The Caucus aims to raise awareness of abuse, and to work towards innovative and effective policy solutions incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Representatives Bill Delahunt (MA-10), Stephen Lynch (MA-09) and Connie Mack (FL-14) are also original caucus members. The Caucus is holding its first forum in Washington D.C. on September 22nd, 2010, to discuss prescription drug abuse. To link to the SAMHSA report, please visit: http://oas.samhsa.gov/2k10/230/230PainRelvr2k10.htm
07.16.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Education is releasing $200,000 to the City of Prestonsburg for the Mountain Arts Center (MAC). Rogers secured this funding to enable the MAC to continue its renowned efforts to inspire young people and showcase the spectacular performing and visual arts of Eastern Kentuckians. “Southern and Eastern Kentucky is blessed with a rich, distinct cultural heritage made up of talented artists on stage and with a canvas. The MAC recognizes the contributions these individuals have made to our communities and is leading the way to ensure that our youth explore and value our cultural heritage and way of life,” said Rogers. “This funding will help expand the Arts Education Program and enable the center to offer more arts and music programs for our students to expand their appreciation and learn new skills in the arts.” The MAC, a non-profit performing arts venue and arts education facility, is the reality of one woman’s dream; Miss Billie Jean Osborne. “Miss Billie,” a retired music teacher, envisioned a center which would provide education and performance opportunities for the region’s talent, especially the youth, and to celebrate the musical heritage of Eastern Kentucky. The MAC significantly impacts the region economically and culturally by operating as a tourist destination, arts education facility, and a performance arts venue. Education and performance opportunities presented through a variety of school and community outreach programs allow the MAC to accomplish its art education goals. The MAC serves 23 counties and 33 school districts in Eastern Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.15.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that $11,045,187 in federal funding has been awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to Kentucky to build and sustain national preparedness capabilities throughout the Commonwealth. Through training programs, volunteer efforts, medical response exercises and more, this funding will increase awareness and help to ensure a stronger response effort in case of an emergency. “Whether it is a natural disaster, like the May floods, or an attempted terrorist attack, like the Christmas Day bomber, every community needs to be prepared and equipped with the resources necessary to appropriately respond,” said Rogers. “This funding is critical toward protecting the Commonwealth and ensuring that all our communities, big or small, are ready at a moment’s notice if a disaster were to strike. The people of Kentucky are safer because of these programs.” Today, DHS will make the following awards to the Commonwealth of Kentucky or other identified local entities through a variety of grant programs including: • $8,007,374 to allow the Commonwealth to plan, gather the necessary equipment, train first responders and implement training exercises to keep citizens of Kentucky safe in case of a disaster • $2,205,723 to the City of Louisville to build up security capabilities and protect this highly populated area • $197,252 for the Commonwealth to bring government leaders together to coordinate the involvement of community members and organizations in emergency preparedness, planning, response, and recovery from a disaster. • $634,838 to help the Commonwealth integrate emergency management, health, and medical systems into a coordinated response to mass casualty incidents. This will help reduce the consequences of such incidents by augmenting existing local operational response systems. Rogers is the lead Republican on the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Homeland Security. The Subcommittee is charged with allocating resources toward these important grant programs. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) awards grants to states, urban areas and transportation authorities under 14 programs to bolster national preparedness capabilities and protect critical infrastructure. As a senior member of the Committee, Rogers works to secure funding to increase the nation’s preparedness and for important homeland security initiatives in Kentucky.
07.09.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that his District Communications Coordinator, Danielle Smoot, will also be serving as his field representative for the western region of Kentucky’s Fifth District. This area includes Bell, Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Wayne and Whitley counties. “I am pleased to announce that Danielle will be serving as my Western Field Representative,” said Rogers. “As my District Communications Coordinator, Danielle has demonstrated her love for Southern and Eastern Kentucky by going above and beyond to help improve communication throughout the region and bring awareness to so many important issues facing our families today. Her dedication to the community along with her tremendous work ethic will go a long way towards ensuring that everyone’s voice is heard.” Danielle Smoot was hired as Rogers’ District Communications Coordinator in November 2008. In addition to her new responsibilities as Field Representative, she will continue in her communications role and will now be based out of the Somerset office. Prior to her service for Rogers’ she worked as a news anchor and reporter for WYMT-TV in Hazard, Kentucky for six years. As a graduate of the University of Kentucky and native to Hyden, Kentucky, Danielle lives happily in London, Kentucky with her husband Dan and son, Peyton. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.09.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that he is launching a new awards program to honor community members who are making a difference in the Fifth Congressional District. The first-ever “Hal Rogers Difference Maker” Awards were presented Thursday, July 8, 2010 during the UNITE Shoot Hoops Not Drugs basketball camp at the Jackson County Middle School. “Too often, good deeds go unnoticed and unappreciated,” said Rogers. “This award is just a small way to let some men, women and youngsters know that they are making a positive impact on this region and their efforts are appreciated. Our future looks brighter thanks to the difference makers in every community.” The first-ever “Hal Rogers Difference Maker” Awards were presented to: Sponsors of the Jackson County Shoot Hoops Not Drugs Basketball Camp, difference makers Tom and Peggy Wilson and Jackson Energy Cowboy Up for Christ, difference makers Brad Hornsby, Bobby Hornsby, Kathy Spurlock and Don Banks The Heavenly Harvest Garden Program, difference makers Kenny and Denise Cox, Johnathon and Laura Tirey, Ronnie Slone, Terry and Sally Brewer, Ronnie and Diane Taylor, Paul and Delena Hays and Ron Maharrey The Jackson County Backpack Club, difference makers David and Melinda Cunagin PRIDE difference maker Barry Spivey Congressman Rogers also shared the value of participating in community activities with the parents of the youth participating in the Jackson County Shoot Hoops Not Drugs basketball camp with former University of Kentucky men’s basketball star Jeff Sheppard. “We want to prevent our children from getting hooked on drugs and wrapped into the court system,” said Rogers. “Get involved, sign up with your local UNITE Coalition and become a difference maker today.” Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
07.02.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has designated Bath, Breathitt, Jackson, Knott, Laurel, Lee, Magoffin, Menifee, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Rowan, Wayne, and Wolfe Counties as eligible for farm disaster assistance due to losses caused by severe storms and flooding earlier this year. “I am grateful that USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack has designated these counties as eligible for farm disaster assistance,” said Rogers. “The damaging winds, flooding, mudslides and severe storms in early May wreaked havoc on our local farm operations. While more challenges lie ahead, this designation will go a long way toward helping our growers and cattlemen receive emergency loans and financial support that they so desperately need to stay afloat.” In May, Congressman Rogers sent a letter to Secretary Tom Vilsack in support of this agricultural emergency designation, and today’s announcement makes available USDA disaster aid to support farm operations. Farmers in eligible counties have 8 months to apply for emergency loan assistance. The Farm Service Agency (FSA) will consider each emergency loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses, security available, and repayment ability. Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments (SURE) Program applications for 2010 crop losses will be accepted in 2011, when the 2010 farm revenue data required by statute becomes available. Local FSA offices can provide affected farmers with further information. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
06.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) reminded individuals today of the approaching July 12, 2010 deadline to request individual assistance from FEMA. Individuals who reside within the counties eligible for disaster assistance as a result of the May severe storms, flash flooding, and mudslides are urged to submit their applications with FEMA as soon as possible. “As our communities begin to recover from the devastating flooding and damage from the May storms, I want to remind everyone to submit their claims to FEMA,” said Rogers. “While more work remains, it is important to follow-up with FEMA and ensure that those eligible have completed the proper paperwork so that claims can be processed and the clean-up can continue.” FEMA will accept registrations for disaster assistance until Monday, July 12, at 8pm EST. Registering for disaster assistance is simple. You can apply online anytime at www.disasterassistance.gov, or by phone at 800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 800-462-7585. Phone lines are open every day from 7am to 10pm EST. Anyone who had damage from the disaster should register even if they’re not sure if they qualify. The FEMA process is completely separate from the Commonwealth, local emergency management agencies, the Red Cross and other charitable organizations. For additional information about this disaster visit www.fema.gov and www.kyem.ky.gov/currentdisasters. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information on the May flooding visit http://halrogers.house.gov/ConstituentServices/UpdateOnMayStorms.htm.
06.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will be awarding $2.88 million to the Rural Domestic Preparedness Consortium (RDPC) hosted at Eastern Kentucky University (EKU). RDPC is a nationwide rural training initiative that enables emergency responders in rural areas to access comprehensive homeland security training programs and fill critical security gaps. EKU serves as the lead institution of a group of colleges across the nation that provides critical training courses for rural first responders and other emergency response stakeholders. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 2892, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. “From the severe May flooding to last year’s paralyzing ice storm, we have seen first hand the importance of providing the tools necessary to our rural first responders,” said Rogers. “No community is immune from the threat of natural or man-made disasters. These funds will go a long way towards ensuring that our local law enforcement, fire, EMS, emergency volunteers and management services are prepared and ready to respond to any circumstance at any time. Our families will have the peace of mind knowing that our brave first responders have every tool at their disposal in order to protect our communities and keep neighborhoods safe.” Disaster prevention and response courses in large part developed by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency are ongoing throughout the country and applied for rural first responders. Eastern Kentucky University, East Tennessee State University, Iowa Central Community College, Northwest Arkansas Community College, the University of Findlay, in Ohio and North Carolina Central University are the Consortium’s academic partners, each of which has unique capabilities in rural emergency preparedness training. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
06.23.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $199,000 grant for the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) to develop a business incubator that will provide training and technical assistance to new and emerging businesses. “Business know-how and product-to-market expertise can make or break an entrepreneur’s success,” said Rogers. “The Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation has once again opened its doors to assist a new cadre of innovators and bring the technical guidance necessary to spur projects from the drawing board to production. Our region only stands to gain from the Business Innovation and Growth Center and I am looking forward to seeing this important project progress.” The mission of the Business Innovation and Growth Center, or business incubator, will be to assist entrepreneurs of startup companies by offering a programmatic approach to executing their business opportunities. Companies will then be able to focus their limited resources and capital toward development of their business and maximizing opportunities. The goal of the incubator will be to move a company through the business development process toward self-sustainability while building a more entrepreneurial community in the region. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
06.23.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded a $582,993 grant to the Mountain Comprehensive Health Corporation to provide services to the coal mining population of Eastern Kentucky impacted by black lung disease and other respiratory problems. “I applaud the Mountain Comprehensive Health Corporation for their efforts to help identify and treat those individuals affected with black lung disease,” said Rogers. “These services help families in Eastern Kentucky with preventative medicine, as well as with state-of-the-art treatment options. This HHS grant will go a long way toward keeping our communities healthy and informed on all the health care options available.” The Respiratory Clinics of Eastern Kentucky and Black Lung Clinics Program is a subsidiary of Mountain Comprehensive Health Corporation and has been providing services to the coal mining population of Eastern Kentucky since 1983. Retired, active, and disabled coal miners are served by the program in addition to other patients suffering from pulmonary problems. The core service area of the program is comprised of the five counties of Letcher, Harlan, Knott, Perry and Pike counties; however, an increasing number of patients from other counties and surrounding states are seeking the services provided by these clinics. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
06.22.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the University of Kentucky Research Foundation in Hazard with a $51,073 Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship Grant. The grant will assist the university’s nursing students who are pursuing a graduate degree that focuses on the elimination of health barriers. “Providing new and innovative research in the medical field is critical to addressing the needs of our region and others that face a shortage of nurses and health professionals,” said Rogers. “The University of Kentucky’s work to research the health disparities in rural regions like southern and eastern Kentucky is key to improving the health of so many people throughout our communities. I applaud UK for their leadership and efforts that will make a measurable difference in the lives of so many families in our region.” The University of Kentucky Research Foundation addresses the overall goal of eliminating barriers to health access with a four pronged approach: eliminating health disparities, assuring quality care, improving the public health and health care systems, and training students in their fields of study to address these issues. Student learning experiences focus on nursing science related to chronically ill populations and populations with acute, complex health care needs, as well as rural and underserved populations. Students learn to provide advanced nursing care using appropriate care delivery strategies and also how to engage community partners in addressing health promotion and illness prevention needs. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
06.22.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has awarded a $147,500 Rural Business Enterprise Grant for the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) to provide a working capital loan to Jabo and Sons in Letcher County. “Once again, SKED is leading our region by generating real economic opportunities for the people of Letcher County and across southeast Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Sound investments, technical assistance, and low-cost small business financing are the tools necessary to bring high-quality jobs and innovation to our rural communities. I applaud those who are working to make Jenkins an even stronger community and look forward to the success that lies ahead.” “This USDA funding enables SKED to assist small business owner James Fouts, Sr. to expand his business and hire more people at a time when jobs are scarce across the nation,” said SKED Executive Director Greg Jones. “It is our privilege to be able to play a small part in seeing a 24-year-old business succeed and expand in eastern Kentucky at a time when it’s needed most.” The loan will provide the working capital required for the expansion of Jabo and Sons at its Jenkins location and the retention of seven jobs while creating an additional eight new jobs over the next two years. The expansion includes moving from its current 2,000 square-foot facility into an 8,000 square-foot building and purchasing additional equipment to fulfill new contracts. Jabo and Sons was organized in 1986 by James Fouts, Sr. to provide specialized welding, pipe bending, molding and other machining type of operations. Its primary customers include the trucking industry, mining industry, and other types of businesses that need machine and metal fabrication work. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents. For more information visit www.halrogers.house.gov.
06.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the Frontier School of Midwifery and Family Nursing (FSMFN) in Hyden with a $177,869 Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship Grant. The grant will assist FSMFN in improving and ensuring access to nursing and midwifery educational services to even more health professionals. “Providing state-of-the-art training in the medical field is critical to addressing the needs of our region and others that face a shortage of nurses and health professionals,” said Rogers. “Right here in Leslie County, the Frontier School is providing top-notch, Internet-based programming to equip medically-minded students around the country with critical skills to help young expectant mothers and growing families. With a focus on rural and underserved communities, Frontier School continues to be a leader in the field of nursing and is making a measurable impact in the lives of so many families.” FSMFN offers a Master of Science in Nursing degree and post-masters certificate leading to education as a certified nurse-midwife, family nurse practitioner, and a women’s health care nurse practitioner. The mission of FSMFN is to provide a high quality education that prepares nurses to become competent, entrepreneurial, ethical and compassionate nurse-midwives and nurse practitioners who will provide primary care for women and families residing in all areas with a focus on rural and medically underserved populations. The FSMFN seeks to meet the needs of prospective nurse-midwives and nurse practitioners who do not want to leave their home communities to obtain the graduate education they desire to fulfill their professional aspirations. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
06.18.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today in reaction to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ decision to indefinitely suspend Nationwide Permit 21 (NWP-21) in Appalachia: “For years, Nationwide Permit-21 (NWP-21) has served as a valuable tool for the Corps and coal operators to expedite non-controversial mining permits. In recent years, NWP-21 guidelines have changed and participation diminished, but by outright cancelling this program in Appalachia, the Corps will force operators into further regulatory limbo where nearly 200 mining permits are already gathering dust. I have no faith that this Administration has the ability or desire to process and approve coal permitting applications. This latest action will result in further uncertainty for our people, and could lead some mines to shut down completely, or prohibit future mines from ever getting off the ground. Perhaps most egregious and unjustifiable, this ban only applies to Appalachian coal, granting other states the ability to legally proceed with their operations. “Eastern Kentucky and Appalachia are national leaders in coal production, by far our most valuable and abundant energy resource. Throughout Appalachia, 1 in 4 mining jobs is threatened by these politically-motivated delays in the permitting process, and 81 small businesses in the region stand to close their doors because of these delays. Today’s announcement, in conjunction with the permit-processing backlog, the President’s misguided “Cap and Trade” bill, and EPA’s bizarre carbon dioxide endangerment policy, amounts to another nail in the coffin for Appalachian mining. With unemployment hovering at 10% and 20,000 hard-working Kentuckians relying on this industry for their livelihoods, this White House is doing nothing short of waging war on coal, putting our nation’s economic and energy security at risk.”
06.17.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that in the past 5 months his new website has received nearly 112,000 visits. His official website, www.halrogers.house.gov was overhauled on January 14, 2010 so that individuals in Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District would be able to easily access information and contact him online. “I appreciate the tens of thousands of individuals who have utilized my new website to reach out and contact me,” said Rogers. “It is my privilege to serve the people of southern and eastern Kentucky and I want to encourage every individual in the Fifth Congressional District to share your opinions with me online, or by contacting my office. From the latest information on the May storms, to the interactive district map, I hope that families, students, entrepreneurs, seniors and local communities will continue to utilize all the helpful material that is continually being updated.” Congressman Hal Rogers can be reached online at www.halrogers.house.gov through the “Contact Hal” tab. Individuals can also connect with Rogers on Facebook by linking to his official page, “Harold Rogers”. Speeches, videos and more are frequently added to Rogers’ YouTube page at www.youtube.com/RepHalRogers. To receive news updates periodically, individuals can subscribe to Rogers’ e-newsletter and learn about the latest debates in Washington as well as things happening back home in Kentucky. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents.
06.11.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture-Rural Development (USDA-RD) awarded a $1,837,000 loan and $613,000 grant to the City of Pikeville to replace the existing waterline along US 23 and extend sewer service to 77 new users in rural Pike County. “As we’ve learned, clean water is essential to attracting businesses, improving health, protecting wildlife habitat, and growing our communities,” said Congressman Rogers. “For years our region has been plagued by straight pipes and contaminated rivers. I’ve fought hard for federal programs like USDA-RD to ensure that our people have the same basic quality of life as others throughout our country. I applaud the City of Pikeville for their efforts to help local residents and improve our environment through this updated infrastructure.” The funding will be used to extend a reliable source of sanitary sewer and safe drinking water to residents of Pike County. The current 12 inch waterline will be replaced to ensure a healthier water infrastructure. The complete rehabilitation of the lift station and extension of the sanitary sewage lines will compensate for an anticipated increase in usage. Once the project is complete, 77 new urban and rural users, including Mullins Elementary School, will have clean water and efficient sewer lines. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for valuable initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District. For more information about Congressman Rogers, visit http://halrogers.house.gov.
06.11.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Morehead State University is being awarded $750,000 from the Appalachian Regional Commission to equip and furnish the University’s Center for Health, Education and Research (CHER). This award will enable MSU to recruit and train current and future health care professionals with state-of-the-art imaging and medical equipment. “MSU and Rowan County are leading our region and the nation in high-tech science and medical education,” said Rogers. “The healthcare needs of our region are no secret and our local communities will benefit from Morehead’s work to teach and train future professionals in the health care industry. I continue to be impressed with the Appalachian Regional Commission’s partnership with our local colleges and universities in bringing high quality education opportunities to our region. I offer high praise to the MSU faculty, board, and President Wayne Andrews for their hard work to take advantage of these opportunities.” Kentucky and the nation are facing an increased demand for radiographers and nurses. To accommodate the expanding need for trained health professionals, Morehead State University is constructing a $30 million facility to house the Nursing and Imaging Sciences Department, as well as a family practice clinic and UK’s Physician Assistant program. The ARC funding, combined with $2.8 million from the Commonwealth of Kentucky, will replace obsolete equipment in the nursing and imaging science programs with state-of-the-art simulators, diagnostic equipment, and associated furnishings which will greatly improve the level of training that can be provided to students in these programs. Morehead State University expects at least 150 students to graduate from these programs each year during the next three years. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.11.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management (KYEM) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are opening Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC) in Pulaski and Rockcastle counties to better serve those devastated by the early May storms. “I am glad to see that KYEM and FEMA are opening two new Disaster Recovery Centers to help the people of Pulaski and Rockcastle Counties,” said Rogers. “So many families and small businesses are overwhelmed from the damage caused by the rising flood waters and severe storms and these centers are essential to answering their questions and assisting those who lost so much. While more challenges lie ahead, these centers will start to move things forward so we can begin to rebuild and recover.” Both the Pulaski and Rockcastle Counties DRC’s will open on Monday, June 14, 2010 and remain open 9am – 6pm Monday through Saturday until further notice. The Pulaski County DRC is located at the Hal Rogers Fire Training Center, 180 Oak Leaf Lane, Building 2, Room 5, in Somerset. The Rockcastle County Disaster Recovery Center is located at the Rockcastle County Court House, 205 East Main Street, 2nd Floor, in Mt. Vernon. Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District. Visit Congressman Rogers’ May Storm Update webpage for answers to frequently asked questions at http://halrogers.house.gov/ConstituentServices/UpdateOnMayStorms.htm.
06.03.2010	Today, Representatives Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Harold Rogers (KY-05) launched a bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. As the Co-Chairs of the Caucus, Bono Mack and Rogers are long-time advocates for multi-tiered solutions to the ever-growing epidemic that has wrought havoc on communities large and small throughout the United States. The new Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse aims to unite like-minded policy-makers to raise awareness of abuse, and to work towards innovative and effective policy solutions incorporating treatment, prevention, law enforcement and research. Representatives Bill Delahunt (MA-10), Stephen Lynch (MA-09) and Connie Mack (FL-14) are also original caucus members. “Prescription drug abuse is on the rise, threatening the lives of more and more of our young people every day,” said Bono Mack. “Far too many Americans have the misconception that prescription drugs are ‘safer’ because they’re prescribed by a doctor, but the fact is that prescription drugs, when abused, can be just as addictive and as deadly as street drugs. Like millions of people across our country, I have seen firsthand the devastation that prescription drug abuse can cause, and I am proud to launch this Caucus with some of my colleagues who share my passion and dedication to ending this cycle of abuse that is destroying the lives and futures of far too many of our young people.” “For decades, I’ve witnessed the devastation wrought by the diversion and abuse of otherwise legal prescription drugs in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. The formulation of this bi-partisan caucus is proof that this epidemic knows no boundaries – geographic, socio-economic or otherwise. Prescription drug abuse is overwhelming our local law enforcement community, challenging our health practitioners and worst of all, is an easy predator on our young people,” stated Rogers. “In Kentucky, we’ve employed a three-pronged approach to combat the scourge of abuse – law enforcement, treatment and education – and today we’re applying this strategy, with the input of research, to tackle drug diversion. I look forward to collaborating with these and other colleagues who are similarly dedicated to tackling prescription drug abuse from the bottom-up and the top-down.” “Prescription drug abuse across America can only be described as an epidemic,” said Delahunt. “Between 2002 and 2007, my home state of Massachusetts lost 42 times as many residents to opioid-related overdoses than in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and the Commonwealth is currently seeing 2 deaths per day. I am proud to join today with my colleagues in forming this bipartisan caucus which makes addressing this crisis a national priority.” “Too many families and communities have felt firsthand the devastation caused by prescription drug abuse,” said Lynch. “The Prescription Drug Caucus will help raise awareness of this terrible epidemic while developing effective policies to combat abuse. I am proud to be an original member of the Caucus and look forward to working with my colleagues on this important issue.” “I have seen firsthand how families are impacted by prescription drug abuse. We need to work together to help the victims and their families cope with a problem that has no social, economic or geographic bounds,” stated Mack. “I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues on this Caucus to find solutions and hope for so many Americans struggling with this addiction.” According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, nearly 7 million people are utilizing prescription drugs for non-medical purposes. Nearly one-third of individuals who began abusing drugs in the past year reported their first drug was a prescription drug, and one out of every five new drug abusers is initiating use with potent narcotics, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone and methadone. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) indicates illegal prescription drug diversion is the fastest growing drug threat nationwide. The Caucus will conduct periodic events to educate Members of Congress, congressional staff, relevant government officials and the general public about the dangers of prescription drug abuse and policies aimed at reducing the diversion and misuse of these drugs.
06.02.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that President Obama extended an Emergency Declaration to Lee and Wolfe Counties to assist with the flooding and damage that occurred during the May severe storms. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been authorized to provide appropriate assistance for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s severe storm emergency. “I am glad to see that President Obama has authorized funds to help the people of Lee and Wolfe Counties,” said Rogers. “The damage from the raging flood waters, mudslides and severe storms have crippled our local communities and this federal assistance will make a difference to the families and small businesses that need help. While more challenges lie ahead, this declaration will start to move things forward so we can begin to rebuild and recover from these storms. I would also like to applaud the volunteers and local first responders that sacrificed their comfort to help those in need.” Congressman Rogers, along with the Kentucky Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Beshear’s May 3, 2010 request for a disaster declaration. On May 29, 2010 the President extended a federal disaster declaration to Lee and Wolfe counties. Lee and Wolfe counties are eligible for individual assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs) and are also eligible for public assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work). Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
05.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the Parker's Mill Volunteer Fire Department $360,000 to purchase a mobile burn trailer. “Our first responders will now have access to state-of-the-art fire training in controlled burns that is safer for them and our environment,” stated Rogers. “The mobile unit will be shared by all 18 fire departments in Pulaski County, as well as the Fire Training Center which hosts a Regional Fire School. This FEMA investment will impact the small rural fire departments from around 30 counties across the state by providing the funds for this advanced equipment.” Through FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program, the Parker's Mill Volunteer Fire Department will purchase a mobile burn trailer with props to be used for controlled burns. The Pulaski County Fire Commission has also committed $140,000 in matching funds. "It is a God-sent piece of equipment for us to train our fire fighters more efficiently and in a safer environment," stated Tiger Robinson, Pulaski County's Public Safety Director. "The better prepared we are, the better we will react in a real fire situation." The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, these grants have helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District. ###
05.25.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) congratulated The Appalachian Regional Healthcare (ARH) system for being honored as the 2010 Outstanding Rural Health Organization by the National Rural Health Association (NRHA). “It goes without saying that Appalachian Regional Healthcare is a bright star in my region. I want to extend my sincerest congratulations to the Board of Trustees and fine staff of ARH for receiving such a prestigious honor and my many thanks for your unwavering efforts to provide quality health care to working families, children, and seniors,” said Rogers. “This is appropriate recognition for a job well done. While superbly meeting the medical needs of our communities, ARH has spearheaded local efforts to train a cadre of health care professionals to sustain quality, modern health care throughout Appalachia. I encourage you to continue this pro-growth perspective and commitment to our people and I look forward to continuing to work with you to meet the healthcare challenges of the 21st Century.” ARH is a not-for-profit health system serving 350,000 residents across eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia. Operating nine hospitals, multi-specialty physician practices, home health agencies, HomeCare Stores and retail pharmacies, ARH is the largest provider of care and single largest employer in southeastern Kentucky. The ARH system employ 4,700 employees and has a network of more than 600 active and courtesy medical staff members representing various specialties. Firmly committed to its mission of improving the health and promoting the well-being of all people in eastern Kentucky and Southern West Virginia, ARH provided more than $107 million in uncompensated care for the uninsured and underinsured in the past 12 months alone. NRHA honors outstanding individuals and organizations in the field of rural health each year. The Outstanding Rural health Organization award recognizes any group or entire organization that has improved access to health services and information for people in rural areas through innovative, comprehensive approaches. Factors considered for the award include outreach, preventative health and education, quality and efficiency of care, and strong community support and involvement. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District. Click here for Congressman Rogers' Radio Actuality
05.25.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement upon the introduction of America Speaking Out, an effort by House Republicans to engage the American people in the process of building a new policy agenda for America. Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. This initiative takes place online at the new and interactive www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com. “While Americans have been speaking out, Washington just hasn’t been listening. Liberals in charge of Congress have pursued a partisan agenda, rather than addressing the concerns of the American people. Whether it’s been forcing a government takeover of health care, passing a National Energy Tax, piling up record deficits, or ignoring our nation’s jobs crisis, the actions of this Congress have been contrary to the will of the American people. Citizens everywhere are ready for a new agenda in Washington, and the nation deserves a Congress that acts to implement the priorities of the people. “House Republicans plan to offer the nation a new set of policy solutions, but rather than handing an agenda down from Washington, we want to include the American people in building it. We have offered our own ideas when we disagreed with the Democrat majority, and we are committed to our principles of a smaller, more accountable government that keeps freedom in the hands of the people. However, we believe that leadership requires the humility to listen to the American people and a recognition that any new agenda should start with them. So to show that the voices of the American people can still make a difference in Washington, we are introducing America Speaking Out and giving citizens a new opportunity to lend their ideas to the creation of a new national policy agenda. “We are looking for all Americans, regardless of party affiliation, to be a part of this unprecedented dialogue of ideas. Throughout the summer we will be engaging the American people to solicit their priorities and discuss how our principles can be applied to America’s challenges. Through America Speaking Out, the people will have a voice in Washington, as well as a group ready to act on their behalf. I hope the working families, seniors, students, miners, and veterans who proudly make up the 5th Congressional District of Kentucky will let their voices be heard and help America get back on track.”
05.25.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that late yesterday President Obama extended a federal disaster declaration to include Clay, Jackson, Knott, Leslie, Magoffin, Menifee, Pulaski, and Wayne Counties to assist with the flooding and damage that occurred during the May 1-3, 2010 severe storms. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been authorized to provide appropriate assistance for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s severe storm emergency. “These early May mudslides, high waters, and torrential rains have hit counties across our Commonwealth, but this is great news for families in our region facing severe property losses and communities with budgets stretched thin already,” said Rogers. “With this expansion of eligible counties for disaster assistance, FEMA has recognized that we’ll need a helping hand to get back on our feet. While more challenges lie ahead, this declaration will start to move things forward so we can begin to rebuild and recover from these storms. I strongly encourage residents and public officials to closely document and photograph damages and any expenses associated with this storm.” Congressman Rogers, along with the Kentucky Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Beshear’s May 3, 2010 request for a disaster declaration. On May 11, 2010 the President declared a federal disaster declaration for 11 counties throughout Kentucky. To date, 59 counties have now been deemed eligible for some form of federal disaster assistance across the Commonwealth. Jackson, Leslie, Magoffin, Menifee, and Pulaski counties are now eligible for individual assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs) and Clay, Jackson, Knott, Leslie, Magoffin, Pulaski and Wayne counties are eligible for public assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work). Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
05.24.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that President Obama extended a federal Disaster Declaration to Pulaski County to assist with the flooding and damage that occurred during the May severe storms. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been authorized to provide appropriate assistance for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s severe storm emergency. “I am glad to see that President Obama has authorized funds to help the people of Pulaski County,” said Rogers. “The damage from the rising flood waters and severe storms has crippled our local communities and this federal assistance will make an enormous difference to the families and small businesses that need help. While more challenges lie ahead, this declaration will start to move things forward so we can begin to rebuild and recover. I would also like to applaud the volunteers and local first responders that sacrificed their comfort to help those in need.” Congressman Rogers, along with the Kentucky Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Beshear’s May 3, 2010 request for a disaster declaration. On May 11, 2010 the President declared a federal disaster declaration for 11 counties throughout Kentucky, extended the declaration to Bath and Menifee Counties on May 17, 2010, and today the President extended that declaration to Pulaski County. Pulaski County is eligible for individual assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs) and public assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work). In addition, nearby Wayne County was deemed eligible for Public Assistance. Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
05.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $53,660 grant for Knott County to purchase two new 2010 Chevrolet Tahoe 4WD vehicles, one for the Knott County Sheriff’s Department and one for the Hindman Police Department. These vehicles will enhance the response capabilities of local law enforcement and better serve the people of Knott County. “This funding will go a long way toward keeping the people of Knott County safe and enabling our law enforcement officers to better respond to emergencies in this mountainous terrain,” said Rogers. “Whether it’s responding to a car accident in Hindman, a fire in Pippa Passes, or other local emergencies, our officers need reliable and safe transportation in all conditions. This is a worthwhile investment and I applaud USDA-RD for their continued support of our local law enforcement.” Rural Development funds will be combined with $17,887 from the Knott County Fiscal Court, totaling $71,547 in funding, to purchase the two 4WD vehicles. These vehicles will be purchased in order to provide for the most modern and effective protection capabilities for the citizens of Knott County. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved an $11,237 grant for the City of Burnside Police Department to purchase one new 2010 Dodge Charger Police Cruiser. This funding will increase safety and cut down on emergency response time for the citizens of Burnside and the surrounding areas. “In responding to a car accident, fire, flood, or other emergency, our police officers need reliable, well-equipped transportation options,” said Rogers. “This investment in the Burnside Police Department not only moves the community’s emergency response forward, it provides peace of mind to the citizens of Pulaski County who rely on local law enforcement for safety and assistance. I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region.” In addition to the Rural Development funds, the City of Burnside is contributing $20,870, bringing the total funding to $32,107 for the new police cruiser. This cruiser will be purchased in order to provide for the most modern and effective protection capabilities for the residents of Burnside and the surrounding rural areas of Pulaski County. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Kentucky is slated to receive $5,211,420 in U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Emergency Management Performance Grants. These funds assist state and local emergency operations centers – the nerve centers for multi-agency response and preparedness to man-made and natural disasters. Emergency management agencies bring together law enforcement, fire, EMS and public health, to coordinate government resources and maximize preparedness, response and recovery measures. “We have seen from the recent May flooding and last year’s devastating ice storm that our first responders need to have centralized, accurate information to work together seamlessly,” said Rogers. “These funds will increase Kentucky’s ability to manage the threats that face our state and coordinate assets like National Guard troops, deployable generators, law enforcement personnel, and hospital beds, toward keeping Kentuckians out of harms way. Ensuring open communication and situational awareness from the onset of a widespread emergency is imperative to protecting lives and minimizing the damages. I applaud DHS for their continued investment in the Bluegrass state and this grant will go a long way toward providing for the safety and security of the citizens of the Commonwealth.” The Emergency Management Performance Grant program provides funding to state agencies, including the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security, to boost capabilities at emergency operations centers across the country. DHS will release $329,799,991 for this program to improve nationwide preparedness and response in 2010. Rogers is the Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which writes the federal budget for DHS and has direct oversight of the Department’s wide-ranging security efforts. As a senior member of this committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in Kentucky.
05.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has awarded a $70,500 grant to the Lee County Fiscal Court for a new ambulance and a $22,871 grant to the City of Beattyville for a new police cruiser. These funds will help provide efficient and effective community services for the 1,193 residents of Beattyville and surrounding areas. “In responding to a car accident, fire, rising flood waters, or other regional crisis, our emergency medical technicians and police officers need reliable, well-equipped transportation options,” said Rogers. “This investment in new vehicles moves Beattyville’s emergency response forward and grants the citizens of Lee County greater peace of mind in the local capabilities of public safety. I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region.” In addition to the Rural Development funding, the City of Beattyville is contributing $7,624 toward the new police cruiser, bringing the total funding to $30,495. Similarly, Lee County Fiscal Court is contributing $23,500 in addition to Rural Development’s $70,500 grant for a new ambulance, bringing the total funding to $94,000. These vehicles will be purchased in order to provide for the most modern and effective protection capabilities for the citizens of Lee County. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for valuable initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.18.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that yesterday President Obama extended an Emergency Declaration to Bath and Menifee Counties, as well as opened up Rowan County to Public Assistance Funding to assist with the flooding and damage that occurred during the May severe storms. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been authorized to provide appropriate assistance for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s severe storm emergency. “I am glad to see that President Obama has authorized funds to help the people of Bath, Menifee and Rowan Counties,” said Rogers. “The damage from the raging flood waters, mudslides and severe storms have crippled our local communities and this federal assistance will make a difference to the families and small businesses that need help. While more challenges lie ahead, this declaration will start to move things forward so we can begin to rebuild and recover from these storms. I would also like to applaud the volunteers and local first responders that sacrificed their comfort to help those in need.” Congressman Rogers, along with the Kentucky Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Beshear’s May 3, 2010 request for a disaster declaration. On May 11, 2010 the President declared a federal disaster declaration for 11 counties throughout Kentucky and yesterday the President extended that declaration to Bath, Menifee and Rowan counties. Rowan and Bath Counties are eligible for individual assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs) and Menifee and Rowan counties are eligible for public assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work). Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. A disaster recovery center has also opened in Rowan County at the county rescue squad building at 1350 Divide Hill Road in Morehead from 7 am to 7pm daily. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
05.14.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today more than $2.18 Million in FY09 federal funding is now available for several communities in the Big Sandy and Cumberland River watersheds for flood control and hazard mitigation demonstration projects. "The devastating storms that ripped through Kentucky nearly two weeks ago, left behind a grim reminder of the importance of not only creating, but maintaining flood control projects," said Congressman Rogers. "These funds are vital to communities that otherwise cannot afford to meet the costs of repairs, replacements and various compliance issues for flood protection.” The following projects will receive funding: KY IFLOWS $870,643.96 to repair, replace and add stream and rain sensors in Eastern Kentucky Barbourville $130,336 for high flow diversion channel cleaning Corbin $265,000 for drainage repairs to prevent flooding around nursing homes on Bacon Creek Road Floyd County $150,000 for a flood prevention study on KY 114 Pineville $300,000 for floodwall compliance Pikeville $120,000 for certification of floodwall Pike County $350,784 for certification of floodwall The Kentucky Emergency Management Office (KyEM) has teamed up with Congressman Rogers’ office for the first time to oversee each of the listed flood control and hazard mitigation projects. KyEM is proactively working with local governments to ensure all community flood projects remain compliant to standards set forth by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. John W. Heltzel, director of KyEM, stated, "Congressman Rogers' leadership and commitment to eastern Kentucky is noteworthy. We applaud the Congressman's forward thinking which will benefit many Kentucky citizens and enhance their quality of life." He continued, "This type of partnership and funding makes a great addition to our state hazard mitigation plans and projects. Congressman Rogers' vision has created a unique partnership which provides much-needed assistance to local officials and enables Kentucky Emergency Management to expand its efforts to protect communities from disaster hazards." Heltzel concluded by saying, "We look forward to future partnerships and working together to help mitigate against future flood damage.” Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers continues to support flood control initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
05.13.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that $4,323,786 in federal funding has been awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to Kentucky to increase security and surveillance, reduce threats, improve communications, and harden facilities across the Commonwealth. “From the recent May flooding and severe storms to the attempted bombing in Times Square, federal funding is critical to ensuring that all our communities, big and small, have access to critical resources to prepare for and respond to natural and man-made disasters,” said Rogers. “I applaud DHS for their continued support of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security and providing important funding that will allow our emergency personnel to have the training and tools necessary to help make our communities safer.” Today, DHS will make the following awards to the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security or other identified local entities through a variety of grant programs including: • $800,677 to prevent terrorism by reducing fraud and improving the reliability and accuracy of driver’s licenses • $543,500 to provide planning, training and exercise funding for state and local governments to improve interoperability communications, including communications in response to natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other man-made disasters • $330,072 to protect transportation infrastructure and the traveling public from acts of terrorism, major disasters and other emergencies • $700,000 to increase the preparedness of those responsible for the safety and security of communities near critical infrastructure and resources such as chemical facilities, financial institutions, nuclear and electric power plants, dams, stadiums, and other high risk facilities • $1,102,578 to protect ports from threats of terrorism as well as increase maritime awareness on how to protect, detect, respond and recover from a disaster impacting the ports • $800,000 to improve emergency management and preparedness capabilities by supporting flexible, secure and sustainable emergency operation centers • $47,031 to create a sustainable program for the protection of intercity bus systems and to protect the traveling public Rogers is the lead Republican on the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Homeland Security. The Subcommittee is charged with allocating resources toward these important grant programs. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) awards grants to states, urban areas and transportation authorities under 14 programs to bolster national preparedness capabilities and protect critical infrastructure. As a senior member of the Committee, Rogers works to secure funding to increase the nation’s preparedness and for important homeland security initiatives in Kentucky.
05.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development program (USDA-RD) has awarded a $75,000 grant and $90,000 loan to the Whitley City-McCreary County Fire Protection District for a newer model ladder fire truck. “Ensuring that the people of McCreary County have adequate fire protection coverage and efficient emergency response capabilities has always been an important priority,” said Rogers. “I applaud USDA-RD for their efforts to ensure that our fire departments have adequate equipment to be able to confront tomorrow’s emergencies. This funding will go a long way towards keeping our families safe and giving our local firefighters the tools they need to promptly put out fires in McCreary County.” The Community Facility Direct Loan and the Economic Impact Initiative Grant funding from USDA-RD will be used to replace one of the older model ladder fire trucks in Whitley City. Its purchase will provide for more efficient fire protection for the 35 square miles of service area, which includes several 2-3 story structures, and the 1,111 residents of Whitley City and surrounding areas in rural McCreary County. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for valuable initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $75,422 Economic Impact Initiative Grant for the City of Hyden to purchase three new Dodge Charger police vehicles for the City’s police department. This funding will provide emergency services for the 204 citizens of Hyden and the surrounding rural areas in Leslie County. “This grant will go a long way toward the promotion and safety of Hyden and the surrounding rural areas,” said Rogers. “Whether responding to a car accident, rising flood waters, or the scene of a crime, local law enforcement officers need vehicles and equipment that they can rely on. This is a worthwhile investment and I applaud the USDA-RD for its continued support of the fine men and women who make up Hyden’s Police Department.” Rural Development funds will be combined with $25,141 from the City of Hyden, totaling $100,563 in funding, to purchase the three police vehicles. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $79,292 grant for the City of Loyall to purchase one 2010 Ford Police Interceptor vehicle for the City’s Police Department and one 2010 John Deere 310J Backhoe for the city’s sewer and street department. This funding will provide efficient emergency services and adequate infrastructure for the 766 residents of Loyall in rural Harlan County. “This funding will go a long way toward the safety and well-being of the people of Loyall,” said Rogers. “Whether it’s responding to a car accident, flooding, or other local emergencies, our law enforcement officers need reliable and safe transportation. Furthermore, this grant will allow Loyall to continue to improve water and sewer infrastructure with this new earthmoving equipment. This is a worthwhile investment and I applaud USDA-RD for their continued support of our local law enforcement officers and critical community services.” Rural Development funds will be combined with $26,100 from the City of Loyall, totaling $105,723 in funding, to purchase the police vehicle and backhoe. These vehicles will be purchased to provide Harlan County residents with modern and effective emergency and protection services and reliable construction equipment. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.12.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $34,049 grant for the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department to purchase two Ford Explorer vehicles. This grant will improve civic protection and emergency response time for the citizens of Wayne County. “This funding will go a long way toward the promotion and safety of Monticello and the surrounding rural areas,” said Rogers. “Whether responding to a car accident, rising flood waters, or the scene of a crime, local law enforcement officers need vehicles and equipment that they can rely on. This is a worthwhile investment and I applaud the USDA-RD for its continued support of the fine men and women who make up Wayne County Sheriff’s Department.” Rural Development funds will be combined with $24,587 from the Wayne County Fiscal Court, totaling $54,636 in funding, to purchase two new 2010 4WD Ford Explorer vehicles for the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department. These vehicles will be purchased in order to provide efficient and effective protection and emergency services for the 5,981 citizens of Monticello and for surrounding rural areas in Wayne County. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
05.11.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and 22 of his colleagues encouraged the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw recently-implemented rules regarding Appalachian surface mining that have caused significant barriers and delays in issuing job-creating coal mining permits throughout the region. In a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Rogers and his colleagues requested that the EPA instead process pending applications under existing rules while seeking comment from the public on the proposed changes. “With the EPA’s new rules on surface mining, the Obama Administration has unveiled the latest tactic in its war against Appalachian coal. Over the past eighteen months, the EPA has demonstrated that politics are more important than following well-established, congressionally-approved procedures, and this time the EPA has crossed the line,” stated Rogers. “In these challenging economic times, we cannot afford to put 80,000 jobs on the line because the EPA is undertaking a one-sided power-grab, overriding the states, and changing the rules with no warning and with no good reason. Both Republicans and Democrats have joined me in sending a letter to the EPA that condemns its practice of arbitrarily making new rules that fit its anti-jobs, anti-coal agenda. This bipartisan letter asks the EPA to immediately withdraw the policies that jeopardize mining and mining families throughout Appalachia.” On April 1, 2010, the EPA implemented new standards for mountaintop mining in six Appalachian states. While Rogers continues to support responsible mining operations that evenly weigh interests of environmental protection, economic development and domestic energy supply, significant concerns have arisen about the EPA’s pre-emption of federally-approved state water quality programs. The letter was signed by 23 Members of Congress, representing 14 states and both political parties, and requests that EPA continue to process permits until implementing a formal rule-making process. Further, the letter requests EPA properly respect the role of states in handling water quality permits. The full text of the letter follows below (click here for a PDF version of the letter): May 11, 2010 Ms. Lisa P. Jackson Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA Headquarters Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Mail Code: 1101A Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson: We write to express our concerns over guidance recently issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that will impose additional regulatory barriers to the issuance of coal mining permits in Central Appalachia. Given the far-reaching regulatory impact of this guidance, EPA ought to undertake a more prudent and transparent course of action through the formal rulemaking process. We believe these proposals should be subject to public comment, as well as outside peer review for any draft scientific data, prior to their implementation, so as to strike a better balance between environmental protections and responsible governance. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, guidance is traditionally issued to clarify or further explain an agency’s interpretation of a statute or regulation. The detailed guidance issued on April 1, 2010 on Improving EPA Review of Appalachian Surface Coal Mining Operations under the Clean Water Act, National Environmental Policy Act, and the Environmental Justice Executive Order makes substantive changes to three sections of the Clean Water Act, along with various provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act and the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA). Such sweeping regulatory action far exceeds the intent of Congress under these Acts, and it is procedurally inappropriate for policies of this magnitude to circumvent the normal rulemaking process. We contend that such substantive changes should not be implemented absent extensive public participation and outside peer review. In issuance of this guidance, which is effective immediately, EPA has jeopardized the future of mining operations, the sustenance of local communities, and ultimately, access to a reliable domestic source of energy within Central Appalachia and the entire country. Permits issued under the Clean Water Act affect nearly 80,000 direct coal mining jobs in Appalachia, as well as the coal to supply affordable electricity to nearly 80 million homes and over 95% of our domestic manufacturers. With the country’s economy still floundering and unemployment hovering near 10%, the potential economic impact of these policies validate our request that affected communities be given the opportunity to voice their concerns in the decision-making process. Also of concern is EPA’s decision to begin reviewing state-issued mining permits. Such a determination threatens the cooperative federalism system Congress created in both SMCRA and the Clean Water Act. Under that scheme, states with approved federal programs are given primary authority to interpret and implement environmental requirements at the local level, taking into account local conditions. The Clean Water Act also gives states the power to design state-specific conditions to federal permits under the Act. This approach recognizes that state regulators at the local level are better equipped to interpret water quality standards and apply them to site-specific permits because they have an in-depth knowledge of local watersheds, their conditions and their long-term plans for improvement. States have demonstrated capable stewardship of their respective water quality programs, and we are troubled by federal efforts to undermine Congressional intent on primary state regulatory authority under SMCRA and the Clean Water Act. By creating a duplicative federal regulatory framework, state authority will be undercut and the value of creating state tailored programs will be lost. We encourage EPA to respect this authority and continue its statutory oversight role, so that ecological considerations are taken seriously at the same time as law-abiding and environmentally-sound permits may be issued in a timely manner to create jobs and promote affordable energy. We have always believed that mining operations in Appalachia should evenly weigh the interests of environmental protection, economic development and energy supply, and we are therefore troubled that the EPA’s unsolicited policy changes to the Clean Water Act are aimed only at the coal industry and more specifically, only the Appalachian coal industry. In noting the far-reaching effects of this guidance on the people who live and work in Central Appalachia, we ask that you withdraw the April 1, 2010, Guidance and process pending applications under existing rules and regulations while seeking comment from the public on the proposed changes through the formal rulemaking process. We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to hearing from you in a timely manner. Sincerely, Harold Rogers Shelley Moore Capito Rick Boucher Rob Bishop Bill Shuster Zack Space Glenn Thompson Ed Whitfield Marsha Blackburn Geoff Davis Charlie Wilson Tim Murphy Aaron Schock Parker Griffith Brett Guthrie Doug Lamborn Cynthia Lummis Fred Upton John J. Duncan Denny Rehberg John Shimkus Phil Roe Don Young
05.11.2010	Today, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that President Obama has authorized a federal disaster declaration for 11 counties throughout Kentucky that were devastated by severe flash flooding, tornadoes, mudslides, high rains and water damage beginning on May 1, 2010 and continuing. This is in response to Governor Beshear’s initial May 3, 2010 request. Immediately following, the Kentucky congressional delegation sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama in support of the Governor’s request. “I applaud the President for declaring a federal disaster in counties throughout Kentucky, including Rockcastle and Rowan, so that our affected families and communities now have access to federal funds to help with the clean-up from these devastating storms,” said Rogers. “The damage from these torrential rains was overwhelming and this declaration will begin the process of cleaning up our schools, homes, and businesses. There are many challenges to overcome as we move forward, but this declaration is a step in the right direction.” The counties being declared a federal disaster area and designated for Public Assistance (available to state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations for repairs/emergency work) include Allen, Hart, Lewis, Logan, Metcalfe, Monroe and Rockcastle Counties. Casey, Lewis, Lincoln, Logan, Metcalfe, Rockcastle, Rowan, and Woodford Counties are eligible for Individual Assistance (available to individuals and households for certain storm-related services/repairs). Other counties may be included as additional damage assessments are completed. All counties in the Commonwealth are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (available to state and local governments and certain private non-profit organizations for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards.) Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1912-DR.
05.10.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) is expanding operations in the Valley Oak Technology Complex in Somerset, Kentucky. "At a time when unemployment rates are soaring nationwide, I am proud to see quality jobs still growing in Southern and Eastern Kentucky," said Congressman Rogers. "SAIC serves as one of the largest IT contractors in the nation and their decision to establish more jobs in our region shows confidence in our driven workforce." SAIC is a Fortune 500 company with approximately 70 employees in Kentucky, 55 of which work at the Somerset facility to provide corporate help desk and technical services to customers. The company intends to hire and relocate 20 employees at the Valley Oak Technology Complex within the next year. “SAIC has been a significant employer in Somerset for more than five years, providing help desk and technical services to a range of federal and commercial customers," said Doug Wagoner, SAIC senior vice president and business unit general manager. “We look forward to expanding our operations in Somerst and strengthening our already positive and productive working relationship with the Somerset business community, including the Southern Kentucky Economic Development (SKED) organization.” Greg Jones, Executive Director of SKED said the organization will co-host a job fair to help SAIC identify potential new hires. The time and date will be announced soon. “SAIC is an outstanding corporate citizen – one of the first companies to locate in the Valley Oak Technology Park," said Jones. "This expansion is a testament to SAIC’s commitment to Somerset, the quality of the local workforce and the important role technology plays in today’s global economy.” In his thirtieth year in office, Congressman Rogers continues to support important initiatives to bring jobs to Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District.
05.05.2010	Yesterday, in support of Governor Beshear’s request for a federal disaster declaration, U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and the Kentucky Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Obama urging him to designate the counties and cities throughout Kentucky impacted by the severe weather as a federal disaster area. Statewide, 70 counties have already declared themselves in a state of emergency. If federal disaster assistance is made available, eligible families and communities devastated by the severe flash flooding, strong winds, mudslides, high rains and water damage may receive relief. “The May storms have caused devastation and destruction throughout the Commonwealth. My prayers go out to those families and communities who are trying to recover from the severe weather and are now faced with the enormous challenge of clean-up, fixing roads, repairing water systems, and getting life back to normal,” said Rogers. “Along with my colleagues, I am urging the President to provide federal aid as quickly as possible. Mother Nature may have washed away homes, businesses, bridges, and roads, but she cannot take away the resolve and determination of the good people of Kentucky.” Following a major incident, state and federal officials conduct a preliminary damage assessment (PDA) to estimate the extent of the disaster and its impact on individuals and public facilities. State officials have indicated that Federal Emergency Management Agency damage assessment teams are due in Kentucky on Thursday to begin evaluations. The Governor's initial request letter of May 3, 2010 indicates that this flood and high-water disaster is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of state and local governments and that federal assistance is necessary. Based on the Governor's request, the President may declare that a major disaster or emergency exists, thus activating an array of federal programs to assist in the response and recovery effort.
04.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development program (USDA-RD) has awarded a $100,000 grant to the Knott County Water and Sewer District to replace aging sewer lines in the county. This funding is in addition to the $250,000 PRIDE awarded Knott County last year for this ongoing project. “Ensuring that everyone in Knott County has access to clean and sanitary water has long been a priority of mine,” said Rogers. “I applaud USDA-RD for their efforts to ensure that failing septic systems are cleaned up and water lines provide clean, healthy drinking water. By improving our sewer and water we not only improve our communities, we help grow economic development and increase the potential for job creation by promoting a cleaner environment.” The funding from USDA-RD will be used to either replace or rehabilitate existing aging sewer lines in Knott Count that are subject to contamination due to leaks and deficiencies with the system. Potential health problems will be eliminated and efficient waste disposal will be provided for 122 customers in rural Knott County by fixing these sewer lines. PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. To date, PRIDE has recruited more than 292,000 volunteers logging over 1 million volunteer hours, provided 29,485 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up 139,725 tons of trash. Through PRIDE, more than $2.6 Million have been awarded in Knott County. The funding has provided 367 homes with access to sanitary sewer and septic systems. Their most recent award of $250,000 helped to reduce or eliminate infiltration of surface water and the leaking of raw sewage into nearby soil and streams. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for valuable initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
04.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development program (USDA-RD) has awarded a $198,000 grant and $462,000 loan to the Bronston Water Association, Inc. to replace approximately 3 miles of deteriorating waterline. “Ensuring that everyone in Pulaski County has access to clean and sanitary water has long been a priority of mine,” said Rogers. “I applaud USDA-RD for their efforts to ensure that waterlines are repaired and infrastructure is in place to provide clean, healthy drinking water. Basic infrastructure used to be a barrier for development, but by improving our water systems we not only improve the health of our communities, we help keep and attract businesses and increase the potential for sustainable job creation.” The funding from USDA-RD will be used to replace the 6-inch waterline in the KY Hwy 790, Twin Rivers Road, and Old KY 90 Loop Areas of Bronston in order to provide a dependable water supply for 2,246 customers in rural Pulaski County. USDA-RD’s Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program is designed to develop water and waste disposal systems, including solid waste disposal and storm drainage, in rural areas and towns with a population of 10,000 or less. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for valuable initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
04.29.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved H.R. 1585, The FIT Kids Act. As a co-sponsor of this bill, Rogers joined his colleagues in the House in encouraging children to be active throughout the school day and learn how to be responsible for a healthy lifestyle in order to battle obesity, diabetes, and weight-related health issues. “The epidemic of obesity and weight-related diseases have adversely affected southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “It is high time we get moving and make smart dietary decisions. Better foods and physical fitness information and coordination will go a long way toward lowering the cost of medical bills and improving the quality of life for families in our region. The FIT Kids Act will provide parents, teachers and students with the information they need to live a long and healthy life.” This bill would address the childhood obesity epidemic by ensuring that children are physically active and learn how to be personally responsible for their health through exercise and a healthy diet. Locally, Rogers has long been active in promoting active lifestyles in children and adults. Since 2008, Rogers has secured $780,000 for the “Martin County on the Move” initiative which works with community leaders, schools, and businesses to draw attention to healthy lifestyle choices and combat the region’s high rate of diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. Rogers is also a supporter of Operation UNITE’s school programs, such as “Shoot Hoops, Not Drugs” and “Hooked on Fishing-Not on Drugs” which promote healthy activities for children throughout the district. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on April 21, 2010 and awaits Senate consideration. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
04.29.2010	Today, House Republican Leader John Boehner (OH-08) tapped U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) to serve on the new National Security Solutions Group, which will take the lead in advocating and developing better solutions to the national security challenges facing the country. Rogers will join several of his colleagues and work toward proposing solutions that will keep America safe. “In a time of continuous threats from terrorists, a drug war raging along our southern border, and fighting the war on terrorism abroad, it is an honor to serve on the National Security Solutions Group and work to keep our nation safe,” said Rogers. “I will use my experience as Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to propose ideas that will protect our men and women in uniform, protect our border and provide more security for the country. We have seen from the Christmas Day bomber that terrorists have not quit and we must remain vigilant at all levels and I intend to do my part.” “Addressing the national security challenges we face and protecting the American people are absolutely vital,” said Boehner. “Rep. Rogers has been a leader in our efforts to offer common-sense solutions that keep America safe and support our troops in harm’s way, and he will be a critical part of our national security solutions group.” Rogers has championed efforts to secure the nation’s borders while also maintaining legitimate travel and trade. Such efforts include: record funding for the border fence, doubling the size of the Border Patrol, modernizing our Nation’s ports of entry, and providing assistance to States and localities to help enforce immigration laws. Rogers has also pushed the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) towards the use of cost-effective technology, enhancement of intelligence resources, and application of risked-based solutions. Since the inception of DHS, tremendous progress has been made, including the disruption of several terrorist plots, ending the flawed practice of “catch and release” at the borders, hardening our nation’s critical infrastructure, strengthening controls at ports of entry, and layering a security framework across all modes of transportation. Members of the GOP National Security Solutions Group include: • Rep. Peter T. King – Chairman of the National Security Solutions Group • Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon • Rep. Peter Hoekstra • Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen • Rep. Jerry Lewis • Rep. Lamar Smith • Rep. Michael Conaway • Rep. Charles Dent • Rep. Trent Franks • Rep. Duncan Hunter • Rep. Candice Miller • Rep. Jeff Miller • Rep. Sue Myrick • Rep. Hal Rogers • Rep. Mike Rogers • Rep. Edward Royce • Rep. Mac Thornberry • Rep. Frank Wolf
04.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the Lily Volunteer Fire Department $213,750 to purchase a foam pumper fire truck. “Whether it’s responding to an accident, a medical emergency, or a burning building, modern, well-equipped fire trucks are essential for our first responders to do their jobs effectively,” stated Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnership forged between FEMA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky. This investment by FEMA will go a long way towards increasing public safety and reducing the potential fire hazard in Lily and the surrounding areas of Laurel County.” Through FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program, the community of Lily will purchase a new foam pumper truck to provide fire protection services for the residents of Lily in rural Laurel County. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, these grants have helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
04.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded Wayne County EMS $37,145 to purchase 3 power cots and 3 stair chairs for EMS rescue operations. These devices assist emergency medical technicians (EMT) in quickly aiding a person down a flight of stairs and into an ambulance with reduced likelihood of EMT or patient injury. “Whether it’s responding to an accident or a medical emergency, modern, state-of-the-art technology is essential for our first responders to do their jobs safely and effectively,” stated Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnership forged between FEMA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky. This investment by FEMA will go a long way towards increasing public safety and emergency response in Wayne County.” Through FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program, Wayne County will purchase new power cots and stair chairs which are essential for transporting victims in an emergency. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, these grants have helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
04.27.2010	Republican Representative Harold Rogers (KY-5) was honored today on Capitol Hill by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his pro-business record during the first session of the 111th Congress. “The Chamber applauds Representative Rogers for supporting the private sector and job growth through these difficult times,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “He has demonstrated great courage and we commend him.” Eligibility for the award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its annual publication How They Voted. These designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the award. According to the scorecard, Representative Rogers maintained an 87% rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds an 85% ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber scored Congress on 7 Senate and 15 House votes in 2009, including the economic stimulus package, legislation to promote the U.S. as a travel destination abroad, and both the House and Senate healthcare reform bills. To view a complete list of the 2009 Spirit of Enterprise recipients, please visit www.uschamber.com/soe. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
04.26.2010	U.S. Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) is encouraging fire departments and emergency medical service (EMS) organizations throughout southern and eastern Kentucky to apply for federal grants through the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program within the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The deadline for submitting application materials is Friday, May, 28, 2010 at 5pm EST. “The federal fire grant program provides funding for training and equipment that is critical to protecting our firefighters and the people they serve,” said Rogers. “These funds will go a long way to ensuring that our local first responders have the resources necessary to effectively respond to emergencies and protect the community. I want to encourage all of our fire departments and EMS organizations to take advantage of this opportunity.” The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program serves rural, urban, and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. Funds are used by the nation’s firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, improve firefighter health and safety programs, and establish or expand fire prevention and safety programs. An application and information about the fire grant program may be obtained by visiting the DHS website at http://www.firegrantsupport.com. Fire Departments and EMS Organizations are also welcome to contact Congressman Rogers’ Washington, DC office at 202-225-4601. Rogers works to provide funding for the Firefighters Grant Program in his role as a senior member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
04.26.2010	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $106,810 grant for the City of Evarts to purchase two new 2010 Ford Explorer ® police vehicles and one new John Deere ® backhoe for the local sanitation department. These funds will help provide efficient and effective community services for the 1,101 residents of Evarts. “In responding to a car accident, fire, flood, or other regional crisis, our police officers need reliable, well-equipped transportation options,” said Rogers. “This new vehicle investment moves Evarts emergency response forward. Furthermore, we’re putting the tools in place to continue to improve our water and sewer infrastructure throughout Harlan County with additional earthmoving equipment. I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region.” The USDA-RD community facilities grant program assists the development of essential community facilities in rural areas and towns of up to 20,000 in population, such as constructing, enlarging, or improving community facilities for health care, public safety and/or community and public services. Grants are awarded to municipalities, counties and non-profit corporations, and areas with low population and low income receive preference in the evaluation of grant applications. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
04.09.2010	In an effort to put a stop to widespread abuse of and addiction to the powerful narcotic OxyContin, Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Congressman Hal Rogers (KY-05) today expressed concern about the approval of a new formulation of the drug and called attention their legislation, the Stop Oxy Abuse Act of 2010. This bill revises the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) classification to ensure that the drug is prescribed only for severe pain, its intended use. “Far too many of our young people are falling prey to the dangerous and highly addictive drug, OxyContin – it is making addicts out of America’s future and costing too many young lives,” said Bono Mack. “The FDA needs to focus on the root of the problem and do better to keep this drug out of the hands of those who don’t need it – especially our young people. “Prescription drug abuse is skyrocketing across the country, and it’s essential that we do everything we can to limit the availability of these potentially deadly drugs and better monitor who is getting them, which is why Congressman Rogers and I are joining forces on this important measure. I’ve seen both the beneficial use of Oxy and the outright abuse of the drug – we must strike a better balance to ensure that only those who actually need such a substance are the ones benefiting from it.” “I have seen first hand the devastating effects of prescription drug abuse and the epidemic that faces our nation,” said Rogers. “If we are serious about keeping this out of the hands of our young people and stopping the lawlessness that comes with drug diversion, then we must ensure that OxyContin is limited to only those who need it, first and foremost. In the face of mounting drug overdoses, federal indictments for misbranding, and burgeoning illegal trafficking, the FDA has simply looked the other way and shirked its responsibility. I join Congresswoman Bono Mack in taking a stand and focusing our efforts on limiting the use of OxyContin rather than simply reformulating this drug that is crippling our future generations.” OxyContin drug was originally intended to be prescribed only for severe pain to help individuals dealing with late stages of cancer and other severe illnesses. However, more and more people are being prescribed this drug for less severe reasons, expanding the availability and potential for abuse of this strong narcotic. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) recently issued the Monitoring the Future Survey, which revealed that an increasing number of young people are abusing prescription drugs. According to NIDA’s findings, nearly 1 in 20 high school seniors reported abuse of OxyContin. Additionally, seven of the top 10 drugs were prescribed or purchased over the counter, with nearly 66% of students reporting that they obtained prescription drugs for non-medical use from friends or relatives.
03.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers’ (KY-05) statement on why he voted against Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s government-run health care bill today and the detrimental effects it will have on our nation’s health care system:“Over the last few months, tens of thousands of Kentucky citizens have contacted me, fearful of the potential consequences of this bill and scared for what the future holds. Frankly, so am I, which is why I listened to my constituents today and voted against President Obama’s socialistic, experimental takeover of health care. Though much has been made of the complexities of the bill, and the dishonest way it was brought to the floor for debate, the facts are simple: trillions more in government debt for our country; debilitating higher taxes and new government mandates on individuals; more economic woes for our small businesses; rationing of vital health services by government bureaucrats; longer lines at the doctor for our seniors; and the loss of millions more innocent unborn children to abortion.“In these challenging economic times, with double digit unemployment and out of control deficit spending, this boondoggle simply adds to our country’s heartache. Costing $1.2 trillion, the bill increases taxes by $570 billion overall, including $52 billion in specific job-killing taxes and mandates on our small businesses. Our seniors and veterans will see the quality of their care diminish, with over $734.5 billion in cuts to Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans, $53 billion stolen from Social Security, and drastic reductions to the VA’s Tricare programs. Paying for this monstrosity on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens is unconscionable.“Further, the bill uses taxpayer funding to pay for abortions and will adversely impact rural areas like ours by making it difficult for doctors to provide care. I believe insurance premiums will skyrocket, quality of care will diminish and bureaucrats will dictate your personal health care decisions. “Speaker Pelosi and her minions in Congress continually ignore these basic truths, and despite the clear pleadings from the American people, they have cast their votes to the detriment of our citizens. I will work tirelessly to repeal this legislation, and do everything in my power to implement real health care reform that actually lowers costs and opens up access to more people. If we don’t take action to reverse this damage, we will go from having the best health care in the world, to a system that is beyond repair.”
03.10.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the Mountain Comprehensive Health Corporation (MCHC) with a $3,462,422 grant to continue their primary and specialty health programs for the next five years.“Increasing access to health care across our region is key to raising healthy children, families and communities,” said Rogers. “This is great news for our region and I applaud HHS for supporting MCHC which is providing essential health care to those who are most in need. Now, more than ever, rural health care is important for our local communities that continue to struggle in these challenging economic times. By providing regular check-ups, education, and preventative care MCHC is empowering our communities and making this region a stronger, healthier place to live and raise a family.”MCHC is a non-profit corporation that began in 1971 out of a trailer in rural Leslie County, Kentucky. Since then, MCHC has grown into one of the largest rural health centers in Kentucky and the United States. With over 250 employees, MCHC provides services to over 27,000 patients each year. Currently, MCHC clinics are located in Perry, Harlan, Owsley, and Letcher Counties. In the communities served by MCHC, rates of poverty are more than double and unemployment is significantly higher than comparable national figures. The funding from HHS will allow MCHC to carry out its important mission as the leading safety net provider of primary and preventative health care services in the Appalachian Coalfields Region of southeast Kentucky.As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
03.02.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) will award $300,000 to the City of Campton for the Campton Water Treatment Plant, which is expected to improve service for more than 2,000 households and enable future expansion to homes and businesses in the region.“Improving and expanding our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” stated Rogers. “These funds will be used to construct a new water treatment plant that will allow Campton to provide its current customers with reliable and efficient water, as well as expand and help 302 rural homes and a school. Improving water services to hard working families will enhance the quality of life in Wolfe County.”ARC awarded the City of Campton a $300,000 grant for the water treatment plant project. This new grant is coupled with previously awarded money from the U.S. Department of Agriculture-Rural Development grant-loan package worth $2,467,200 and $4,498,888 in grants from state sources, bringing the total project funding to $7,266,088. The City of Campton requested this funding assistance to resolve state sanctions and enable expansion to new customers. New water treatment technology will provide far greater energy efficiency and other operating improvements. Throughout his 29 year career, Rogers has long supported ARC and the commission’s important mission and notable work to improve the education, health and well-being of Appalachian residents. In fiscal year 2009, ARC helped finance over 40 development and planning projects throughout southern and eastern Kentucky.As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
02.22.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has awarded the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) a $251,706 grant. These funds are targeted to assist rural businesses with training in Bell, Clay and Wayne Counties.“Providing top-notch business training to our local companies, large and small, is an excellent way to spur innovation, stay ahead and survive these challenging economic times,” said Rogers. “By assisting existing small business owners and encouraging forward-leaning entrepreneurs, we keep our commercial centers thriving and put our people to work. Kentucky Highlands has once again teamed up with the ever-important USDA Rural Development Office to deliver meaningful business solutions and technical assistance expertise rural areas can rely on.”KHIC will use these grant funds to establish a rural micro-business training initiative in conjunction with Bell, Clay and Wayne County governments. The project seeks to build a team of experienced entrepreneurial trainers to assist existing and future business owners throughout these three rural counties. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley.Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
02.19.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has released funding for widening of I-75 in Rockcastle County. Last year, Rogers secured this important funding as part of the 2009 DOT funding cycle. This $712,500 will help create 3 lanes northbound and southbound in order to improve safety and reduce congestion. “Improving our roads is one of the most effective ways to bring new economic opportunities to our region,” Rogers said. “Interstate 75 is a main thoroughfare for Rockcastle County, Kentucky, and the nation. Not only will these dollars make travel safer and more enjoyable, these funds will open up economic development for the small businesses within Rockcastle County. Now, more than ever, it is critical that we provide more opportunities for transportation and job creation, as well as open up tourism to Renfro Valley and the beautiful Rockcastle River.” This additional $712,500 will support ongoing work to widen the I-75 from four to six lanes, addressing important traffic congestion and safety issues along the Rockcastle County section of this important national corridor. Over the last seven years, Rogers has secured over $9 million toward this project. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District. ###
02.03.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the Whitley County Health Department with a $400,000 grant to help families and pregnant women access vital healthcare services.“Raising healthy children and families is important for our local communities,” said Rogers. “I applaud HHS for addressing this specific need in Whitley County. For far too long our mothers have had limited care throughout their pregnancy and this funding will go a long way towards educating our region on the importance of prenatal care. Opening up these healthcare services to our community will only help to make our region a stronger, healthier place to live and raise a family.”The Whitley County Health Department will use this funding for their Voices of Appalachia Health Start project which targets pregnant women and provides outreach, case management, depression screening and referral, health education, interconceptional care, and enabling services. The objectives of the project are to reduce the high infant mortality rates, assure early and ongoing prenatal care, places women and children with medical providers, provide case management and health education services, offer depression screening and counseling referrals, and link young mothers to community support resources.As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
01.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold "Hal" Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today regarding President Barack Obama's State of the Union address: “While I welcome President Obama’s efforts to reign in spending and reduce the deficit, I’m skeptical of his new-found rhetoric. This is, after all, the same President who has brought this country to the brink of bankruptcy with his irresponsible spending policies of the last year. His trillion dollar stimulus has been a total failure, with over 3 million jobs lost since its passage. His liberal allies in Congress have increased spending some 85% over the last 2 years, tried to steamroll a disastrous “Cap and Trade” and government run health care bill down our throats, and have proposed raising taxes on our hardworking families. The time for action has long since passed, and I’m disappointed the President is just now coming to the table. We need to focus on creating jobs and helping Americans get back on their feet. That comes with hard work, not another speech filled with empty promises.”
01.26.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $2,723,902 to the Kentucky Communities Economic Opportunity Council, Inc. (KCEOC) in Barbourville to administer the Head Start program. “Providing every opportunity available for our children is essential to moving our region forward,” said Rogers. “Head Start is vital to ensuring that our children have the support and education they need to be successful now and in the future. Healthy kids that are given the tools they need to thrive will not only make our communities better, it will make our region, our state and our nation a better place.”Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services.The funds go to the Kentucky Communities Economic Opportunity Council (KCEOC). KCEOC is a private, non profit corporation that runs a variety of community service programs and the federal funds will go towards supplementing Head Start programs and making them more available across the region. KCEOC has a long history of operating Head Start Programs since Head Start was launched in 1965. In addition to Knox County, KCEOC also serves Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Laurel and Rockcastle Counties. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
01.26.2010	House Republicans today introduced legislation requiring the Justice Department (DOJ) to consult with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense before giving terrorists Miranda rights. The Ensuring the Collection of Critical Intelligence Act of 2010 (H.R. 4503) requires DOJ to consult with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense before mirandizing or charging a foreign terrorist as a criminal. “I am outraged that we are giving terrorists who seek to destroy our nation the same rights as American citizens,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “We lose valuable intelligence when we allow known terrorists to be given Miranda Rights and try them in civilian courts. I see no reason why we should afford our enemies the same constitutional rights as American citizens or the same due process as criminal defendants. We should not be risking the security of our nation to make a political statement.” Following the Christmas Day bombing plot, Nigerian terrorist Abdulmutallab admitted to FBI agents that he was an al Qaeda operative who had received explosives training from al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Despite confessing to being a foreign terrorist affiliated with al Qaeda, Abdulmutallab was informed of his Miranda rights and charged as a civilian criminal. Neither the FBI nor DOJ consulted with the intelligence community before filing the complaint. According to news reports, Abdulmutallab claimed to be one of many terrorists training with al Qaeda to attack Americans. But now that he has been given access to an attorney, Abdulmutallab has stopped cooperating with investigators. In other words, our ability to gather critical intelligence about pending attacks against Americans has been lost. A recent Investor’s Business Daily poll found that 61% of those polled oppose giving Miranda rights to captured terrorists. Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member Hal Rogers (R-KY) was joined by 17 Republicans in introducing the bill today, including: Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-Texas), House Republican Conference Secretary John Carter (R-Texas), Armed Services Ranking Member Buck McKeon (R-Calif.), Homeland Security Ranking Member Peter King (R-N.Y.), Foreign Affairs Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R- Fla.), Judiciary Committee Members Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), Daniel Lungren (R-Calif.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), and Tom Rooney (R-Fla.), and Congressmen Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), and Don Manzullo (R-Ill.). Representative Manzullo’s District includes the Thomson prison, which is slated to be the future home of as many as 50 Guantanamo Bay terrorists.
01.26.2010	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $100,000 grant for Letcher County Fiscal Court to purchase a fire pumper truck. This truck will be used to provide adequate fire protection services for the 25,277 citizens of Whitesburg and rural Letcher County.“Protecting our local communities by adequately equipping them for possible emergencies is of utmost importance,” said Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky, and this federal investment by the USDA-RD will go a long way towards keeping our families safe and giving our local firefighters the tools they need to promptly put out fires in Letcher County.”The USDA-RD community facilities grant program assists small towns and rural areas in equipping, improving, and constructing community facilities for health care, public safety and other public services. Grants are awarded to municipalities, counties and non-profit corporations, and areas with low population and low income receive preference in the evaluation of grant applications. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $99,000 grant and $81,000 loan for W.R. Castle Volunteer Fire and Rescue to purchase a fire pumper truck. This truck will be used to provide adequate fire protection services for the 2,845 citizens of rural Johnson County. “Protecting our local communities by adequately equipping them for possible emergencies is of utmost importance,” said Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky, and this federal investment by the USDA-RD will go a long way towards keeping our families safe and giving our local firefighters the tools they need to promptly put out fires in Johnson County.” The USDA-RD community facilities grant program assists small towns and rural areas of up to 20,000 in population in equipping, improving, and constructing community facilities for health care, public safety and other public services. Grants are awarded to municipalities, counties and non-profit corporations, and areas with low population and low income receive preference in the evaluation of grant applications. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $3,652,972 to the Big Sandy Area Community Action Program, Inc. in Paintsville to administer the Head Start program. “Providing every opportunity available for our children is essential to moving our region forward,” said Rogers. “Head Start is vital to ensuring that our children have the support and education they need to be successful now and in the future. Healthy kids that are given the tools they need to thrive will not only make our communities better, it will make our region, our state and our nation a better place.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Big Sandy Area Community Action Program, Inc. (BSACAP) which provides various services throughout the region, including Head Start. BSACAP is a private, non-profit organization which operates an extensive range of social programs and services targeting low income households in Pike, Martin, Magoffin, Floyd and Johnson Counties. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $100,000 grant and $15,000 loan for North McCreary Fire and Rescue to purchase a fire pumper truck. This truck will be used to provide adequate fire protection services for the 2,399 citizens of rural McCreary County. “Protecting our local communities by adequately equipping them for possible emergencies is of utmost importance,” said Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky, and this federal investment will go a long way towards keeping our families safe and giving our local firefighters the tools they need to promptly put out fires in McCreary County.” The USDA-RD community facilities grant program assists small towns and rural areas of up to 20,000 in population in equipping, improving, and constructing community facilities for health care, public safety and other public services. Grants are awarded to municipalities, counties and non-profit corporations, and areas with low population and low income receive preference in the evaluation of grant applications. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Knox County Fiscal Court will receive a $75,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Program (USDA-RD) to clean up the old Knox County Hospital in order for Union College to expand its academic programs into the building. This funding is vital to completing the conversion of the former hospital into new academic facilities for the college to develop a full-fledged nursing program. “Providing new career opportunities for our young people is key to moving our region forward,” said Rogers. “Union College’s efforts to expand their academic programs to include nursing will not only help our students; it will also help our local communities address important health care needs and no longer force our health care providers to search for a workforce outside our region. Developing people from within our community to learn the necessary skills to administer medicine, and care for our children, neighbors and citizens are critical to the well-being of our district.” USDA-RD’s $75,000 grant will be combined with $25,000 from local sources to remove hazardous materials and debris from the abandoned, old Knox County Hospital site in Barbourville, Kentucky. Once the site has been cleaned up, Union College will use it to expand their academic facilities to establish a Registered Nurse (RN) to Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN) training program. This program will help to alleviate the critical shortage of trained nurses throughout Appalachia and the nation. In addition, the building will be available to the community for special classes, meetings, symposiums, training and other activities. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
01.19.2010	Update on the Situation in Haiti: How People Can Help On Tuesday, January 12, 2010 a massive earthquake hit the country of Haiti, killing thousands upon thousands and leaving even more injured, homeless and without any supplies. Below is a list of organizations you can contact for more information on the current situation and how to get involved and help make a difference. www.whitehouse.gov www.state.gov www.cidi.org www.redcross.org www.clintonbushhaitifund.org
01.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that he has launched an updated congressional website that centers on constituent services. His official website, halrogers.house.gov, has been overhauled to make it easier for individuals in Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District to access information and contact him online. “It is my privilege to serve the people of southern and eastern Kentucky and I value the opinions of every individual in the Fifth Congressional District,” said Rogers. “As such, I wanted to utilize the most recent technology to connect with constituents and provide the most up-to-date information. From my online office, to the interactive district map, I hope that families, students, entrepreneurs, seniors and local communities will find the website easy to use and full of helpful material.” The upgraded website connects to Rogers’ official YouTube site and Facebook page. The new interactive district map allows individuals to explore what is happening in their county and provides contact information on how to get involved and make the community a better and safer place through PRIDE and Operation UNITE. The Media Center is a one-stop source for Rogers’ latest news- from photos to podcasts to press releases, this section of the website is designed to keep individuals up to date. Rogers also launched an e-newsletter feature today that allows people to see what is happening in Kentucky and Washington by simply opening their email. Rogers has served Kentucky’s 5th Congressional District since 1981. With a focus on economic development, job creation, fighting illegal drugs and preserving Appalachia’s natural treasures, he has a reputation for listening to his constituents and fighting for the region he represents.
12.21.2009	"The people of Kentucky should be disgusted. In the middle of the night, as families are preparing for Christmas and spending time with their loved ones, the Democrats in the United States Senate brokered their latest plan for a government-take over of your health insurance. As the details of this monstrosity of a bill continue to unfold, we are now finding out that the Senate cut back room deals for certain states and special interests in order to pass a government run insurance plan and raise taxes on hard working Americans. "This kind of deal making and politics is Washington at its worst. Rather than change you can believe in, this is corruption at the expense of your hard earned money. Even worse, the sanctity of human life was traded away for votes. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle fought hard to protect the life of unborn children in the House bill; however, this was thrown away in order to buy votes in the Senate. For the first time in our history, your tax dollars could go toward someone else's abortion. "At 2,700 pages, the Senate health care bill is a $2.5 trillion government take over of your health insurance that will increase taxes, raise health care costs, mandate what insurance you must buy and fund abortions. Americans do not want to wake up on Christmas morning to find out that their values have been compromised so that Democrats in the Senate can meet an arbitrary deadline for a passing a health care bill. This bill is Washington at its worst and I will continue to vehemently oppose it. "I want to remind every United States Senator that this misguided and partisan approach to passing a health care bill will impact the lives of every American- whether they like it or not. Americans will remember this moment, the moment where our freedoms were shut out of the process just so Democrats could pass a government takeover of health care. Americans will not forget that their voices were drowned out because of special interests and partisans Senators who refused to listen to what America is saying. I for one will continue to stand up for Kentuckians, no matter what happens, and fight against politics at its worst."
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON DC.—U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Congress has approved over $1.8 million to complete the Kentucky National Guard Joint Operations Support Center in London. Through Rep. Rogers’ efforts, the Readiness Center will be able to complete construction on important infrastructure. President Obama signed H.R. 3288, the 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act into law on December 16, 2010. “Equipping and staging our guardsmen so that they can respond in a moment’s notice is critical to protecting the Bluegrass State,” said Rogers. “The London Readiness Center gives the Kentucky National Guard a strategic outpost and operations center to meeting the counterdrug, emergency response, and mobilization challenges head on in our region. As we experienced this past spring, as some of our counties and communities were ravaged by rising waters and flash floods, help can never be too close to home.” This funding will provide two additional aircraft storage buildings at the London Readiness Center. At the conclusion of this project, the unit will be able to respond quicker and in a much more efficient manner. Since 2006, Rogers has secured over $13 million for the Readiness Center which serves as a regional outpost for training, recruitment, public safety, and counter-drug activities throughout southern and eastern Kentucky. The location, immediately off Interstate 75 and accessible to London’s airport, reduces the logistical demands of the Guard fulfilling its key mission of emergency preparedness. With the new facility, the Guard can more effectively respond to security threats as well as floods, fires, and other potential natural disasters. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $4.8 million in federal funding for transportable generators for the Kentucky National Guard. Through Rep. Rogers’ efforts, the Kentucky National Guard will be able to supply portable generators to key facilities and locations in the event of a manmade or natural disaster. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “No one can forget the freezing temperatures, hazardous conditions, and lives that were lost in January 2009 when the ice storm crippled the Commonwealth. This disaster was simply overwhelming,” said Rogers. “We’ve learned our lesson and these portable generators are essential life-saving tools so that the Kentucky National Guard has the necessary equipment to turn the lights back on should such an event strike. By having the ability to provide electricity at a moments notice, lives can be saved and the impact of severe weather or a power grid disruption can be significantly minimized. The Kentucky National Guard is our first line of defense in times of emergency and the ability of these hometown heroes just got better.” This funding will go towards purchasing a portion of 324 air transportable back-up power generators of varying sizes needed for installation at 52 of Kentucky’s National Guard armories with the remainder designated for distribution to critical facilities in the first 24 hours of an emergency response situation in the Commonwealth. Rapid and effective emergency response is a critical component of the Kentucky National Guard’s Defense Support to Civil Authorities mission and these generators are key so that locations such as hospitals, shelters, fire stations, police stations, and emergency response management locations can quickly be supplied power in case of an emergency. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $1.6 million for the University of Kentucky’s (UK) Marty Driesler Cancer Project as part of the 2010 Department of Defense spending bill. The Senate is expected to vote on this final legislation soon. “Cancer has affected nearly every family in the Commonwealth in some way or another,” said Rogers. “Led by UK’s leading medical researchers, new technologies and techniques are helping us detect cancerous cells at the very early and treatable stages. We’ve made significant progress and lives have been spared because of the Marty Driesler Cancer Project. This new round of funding will continue this important work and alert our service men and women to potential dangers and threats that can lead to lung cancer.” Created in 2004, the Marty Driesler Cancer Project is a lethal cancers early detection and awareness program. The program is named in honor of Congressman Rogers’ former chief of staff, who died in November 2003 after a three-year battle with lung cancer. The University of Kentucky, nationally known for its work and research in the field of cancer detection and treatment, continues to oversee its application at four regional healthcare facilities in Hazard, Somerset, Prestonsburg, and Morehead. These organizations have established robust community research programs, and have successfully recruited individuals who continue to be screened for lung cancer with yearly CT scans. In addition, important samples have been collected, and will serve as a unique resource for researchers who are developing screening blood tests for lung cancer and for epidemiologists studying this dreaded disease. In the past six years, Rogers has secured over $3 million for the Marty Driesler Cancer Project. The most recently approved funding is to help continue the current research, as well as expand the focus to include veterans and educate our military families. Specifically, this new funding can provide the Department of Defense (DOD) with health information to identify high risk factors and exposures to cancer in military environments, and provide a model for early cancer detection and screening within the Armed Forces. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $7.8 million to continue production of specialized military tents like those manufactured by employees of Outdoor Venture Corporation (OVC) in McCreary County. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “I applaud members of Congress for supporting the continued funding of tents for our brave men and women in uniform,” said Rogers. “Outdoor Venture Corporation makes a quality product and ensures that our military has the shelter needed to perform their missions at home and abroad. The hard working individuals in McCreary County should be proud of the work they are doing for our nation’s soldiers.” Founded in 1972, OVC has been manufacturing military tents since 1984. To date, OVC has delivered more than $260 million of their products to their government contractors. OVC is essential to McCreary County as it employs hundreds of individuals from the community and has built a reputation for exceptional value and quality products. Specifically, Rogers secured $4.8 million for the procurement of U.S. Army modular command post tents. This tent is specially designed to be packed and relocated quickly which is essential for today’s military operations. This tent can easily be stood up for a command post, tactical operations center, and for a variety of other purposes such as administration, supply, medical or maintenance facility. In addition to this funding, Rogers secured $3 million for U.S. Army air-supported temper tents which are essential in rapid deployment scenarios. These air beam tents meet the military’s need for a tent that provides a multipurpose shelter for billeting, field feeding, administrative, kitchen, shower, and medical uses, and is designed to function in all weather conditions. In the past six years, Rogers has been successful in securing nearly $38 million for tent assembly right in the heart of McCreary County. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $1.6 million for Morehead State University (MSU) to develop and test solar power technologies applicable to satellites. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “Modern military technology development is happening right here in Rowan County,” said Rogers. “MSU is leading the way in innovative thinking and solutions that will help to strengthen our military and keep our country safe. This Defense Department funding will jumpstart solar panel design for satellites creating new efficiencies and improved resiliency. These satellites are part of the United States’ strategic advantage, giving our soldiers the cutting edge technology, intelligence, and communications they need to perform their critical missions.” The Space Science Center at MSU supports the U.S. aerospace and electronics industries by pursuing research and development in small satellite systems and micro technologies, and by training a space-related workforce of graduates with these skills. MSU is working with the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command to look at increasing the power available from solar cells through innovative mechanical structures and by increasing surface area. This effort is in direct support of the Army’s mission to develop nano-satellites to meet tactical warfighter requirements. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $3.6 million in federal funding for counternarcotics activities in Kentucky. Through Senator Mitch McConnell and Rep. Rogers’ ongoing initiative, the Kentucky National Guard will be able to continue marijuana eradication and methamphetamine lab destruction efforts in the Commonwealth. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “This funding is critical to stomping out the drug epidemic that plagues our region,” said Rogers. “The Kentucky National Guard, working with local partners like Appalachian HIDTA, Operation UNITE and the U.S. Forest Service, are tackling the drug problem right here in southern and eastern Kentucky. Their noble efforts are keeping drugs off our streets and out of our communities. Fighting the war on drugs takes a combination of manpower, covert intelligence, citizen groups, and medical professionals and we are seeing real results because of our teamwork. This funding is essential to stopping home-grown drug production, cleaning up the Daniel Boone National Forest, and puts the resources of our trained Kentucky guardsmen to the fight.” The counter-drug efforts of the Kentucky National Guard support local, state, and federal law enforcement toward reducing illegal drug production, trafficking, and distribution throughout the Commonwealth. Since 2000, nearly $30 million has been secured by Congressman Rogers and Senator McConnell toward this initiative. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $4.5 million to continue retrofitting U.S. Army helicopters with leak proof transmission fluid drip pans that are produced by workers at Phoenix Products in McKee. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “I applaud Members of Congress for approving this vital funding to keep our Blackhawk helicopters at their peak performance,” said Rogers. “The hardworking men and women at the McKee plant produce a quality product that helps to keep our military safe and saves time and money. These specialty drip pans reduce repair time and put our Blackhawks in the air performing critical missions instead of on the shop floor waiting for spare parts and maintenance overhauls.” Phoenix Products was incorporated in 1973 and specializes in composite solutions and custom interiors for military aircraft, especially the Blackhawk helicopter. With an experienced engineering and production staff, Phoenix Products prides themselves on quality and design. Employing individuals from Jackson County, Phoenix Products is vital to the local community. Over the past six years, Rogers has secured over $17 million for transmission drip pan assembly in Jackson County. The UH-60 leak proof transmission drip pan has been operating for over ten years and fits on all variants of the Blackhawk helicopter. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that $950,000 has been approved by the U.S. House of Representatives for the continued development of Interstate 66 (I-66). The Northern Bypass is a critical link in the nationally designated I-66 project. The Senate is expected to vote on H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010, later this year. “Putting in place the road infrastructure necessary for real jobs and real economic development across the Commonwealth is the serious goal of I-66,” said Rogers. “It’s no secret that we are in tough economic times, but road construction is a job multiplier, putting local contractors, surveyors, cement companies, and haulers to work. Nevertheless, I-66 isn’t simply about jobs and opportunity right now. It’s about positioning southern and eastern Kentucky on a road to long-term success where our businesses don’t just survive, but thrive and our children have opportunities in the future because we made the necessary investments today. While critics may charge we should get in line and wait our turn, in this fast moving world, that’s a recipe for failure.” I-66 would provide a vital connection between southern and eastern Kentucky and the nationwide road system. This is crucial to providing residents with better access to health care, opening up communities to tourism, and supporting additional supply lines for new businesses. The highway will also improve safety for people traveling in and around the area. Rogers works to provide funding for Kentucky transportation funding in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that $685,000 was approved by the House of Representatives for continued support of TOUR Southern and Eastern Kentucky (TOUR SEKY). Through this funding, TOUR SEKY will sustain critical tourism-based economic development, training, and promotion. The Senate is expected to vote on this final, comprehensive spending legislation later this year. “Breathtaking views, natural physical wonders and a rich cultural heritage can be found right in our backyard and TOUR SEKY is leading the way toward maximizing our full potential,” said Rogers. “Tourism, whether it is from a neighboring county or from another part of the country, is essential to building our local economy and providing jobs right here in our local communities. TOUR SEKY’s efforts have not only trained entrepreneurs, modernized signage, and promoted our region, this organization has effectively built up local tourism coalitions and cast a vision to kept visitors coming back to Appalachia.” Since its inception, Rogers has secured nearly $14 million for TOUR SEKY. Last year alone, the tourism and travel industry contributed over $1.4 billion to the region, supporting 20,000 jobs. Statewide, there is a $10.1 billion annual impact from tourism. TOUR SEKY is a nonprofit organization initiated in 1987 and originally entitled the Southern and Eastern Kentucky Tourism Development Association (SEKTDA). TOUR SEKY promotes and coordinates tourism efforts throughout Southern and Eastern Kentucky to spur economic and cultural growth of the region. Through its 47-county service area, TOUR SEKY will utilize these funds to train small business operators, community leaders, and entrepreneurs in hospitality, marketing, customer retention, and business plan development. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $1.25 million for PRIDE to continue its valuable environmental initiatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers secured this important funding to promote environmental stewardship and education, as well as initiate and manage important water clean-up and wildlife habitat protection initiatives in the region. The Senate is expected to vote on this final, comprehensive spending legislation later this year. “PRIDE is an essential part of ensuring that we preserve our region’s natural beauty for generations to come,” said Rogers. “Through education programs, PRIDE teaches our children the value of personal responsibility and taking care of the environment around them. Through important clean up efforts, PRIDE teaches the value of conservation and ensures that our communities have access to safe, sanitary water. The empowerment that PRIDE brings to Kentuckians keeps litter out of our forests and makes certain that our breathtaking landscape is second to none.” H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010, includes: • $1 million for PRIDE to continue important regional initiatives like stream clean-ups, debris removal, recycling efforts, stream monitoring and habitat improvement. • $250,000 for PRIDE’s important environmental education and awareness campaigns in our local schools through PRIDE clubs and classroom projects. PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. To date, PRIDE has recruited more than 287,000 volunteers logging over 1 million volunteer hours, provided 28,089 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up 135,884 tons of trash. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC.—U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved federal funding for southern and eastern Kentucky’s educational initiative “Forward in the Fifth.” Through Rogers’ efforts, Forward in the Fifth will be able to continue its valuable instructional programs. The Senate is expected to vote on this final, comprehensive spending legislation later this year. “Forward in the Fifth gives our children the opportunity to excel at skills that are necessary for future success,” said Rogers. “Reading can mean the difference between a good paying job, graduating from college, or having the confidence to pursue your goals. This program provides essential tools to those who are hungry to learn and to those who want to turn their dreams into a reality. Education is a key component to moving our region forward, and Forward in the Fifth provides local educators with the resources they need to help struggling students.” In the last three years, Rogers has secured nearly $1 million for Forward in the Fifth, including the $500,000 announced today. Forward in the Fifth, located at the Center for Rural Development, is a nonprofit, grassroots education organization, uniting parents, students, businesses and educators to improve educational success in the Fifth Congressional District. Forward in the Fifth works with the Center for Rural Development’s other affiliates in developing shared educational programs. Begun in 1986, the organization serves 41 Appalachian counties by placing a high priority on literacy education and working to improve school attendance, enhance science and math instruction, train parents in computer-based education platforms, and increase the number of residents attending college. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the United States House of Representatives has approved $13.45 million to fight drug abuse throughout the country. Locally, the funding will support the ongoing efforts of Operation UNITE. On the national level, funding is provided for the Department of Justice (DOJ) Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, which lends support to state-based prescription drug monitoring systems, including the Kentucky All Schedule Prescription Electronic Reporting (KASPER) program. The Senate is expected to vote on this final, comprehensive spending legislation later this year. “The epidemic of drug abuse has impacted every community and nearly every family in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Thankfully, our churches, local leaders, businessmen and women and kids of all ages have rallied together and are fighting to break the scourge of drugs and clean up our streets,” said Rogers. “Programs like Operation UNITE and the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program are making a difference and provide valuable resources to our law enforcement, doctors, schools, and neighborhoods. Our hills abound with success stories as a direct result of the work Operation UNITE is undertaking and this funding allows us to continue to fight for an addict to get help, a young person to never start, and drug pushers to get out.” H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010, includes: • $4.45 million for Operation UNITE to continue and expand community engagement, drug-free school programs, criminal investigations, drug court initiatives, and other important anti-drug activities already flourishing in southern and eastern Kentucky. • $1 million for Operation UNITE to continue its substance abuse treatment and voucher program. • $1 million for Operation UNITE to continue its multi-school substance abuse counseling and curriculum development program. • $7 million for the DOJ Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to continue its state assistance grant program to prevent and detect the diversion and abuse of pharmaceutical controlled substances, particularly at the retail level, where no other automated information exists. This initiative will also develop interstate information sharing on drug purchases. Operation UNITE, which stands for Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education, serves 29 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky. The region-wide program has three main tasks: creating regional drug task forces for interdiction, confiscation and undercover operations; organizing local citizens’ groups and coordinating drug treatment programs; and working with educators to expand drug awareness and education programs in local schools. To date, UNITE detectives have removed over $9 million worth of drugs off the street, including more than 92,900 prescription pills, more than 23 pounds of cocaine, over 450 pounds of processed marijuana and over 11.75 pounds of methamphetamine. Their efforts have led to the arrests of more than 3,300 drug dealers and a 97% conviction rate. Operation UNITE also provides non-violent offenders and those grappling with addiction with a second chance—over 2,000 people have participated in UNITE drug court programs, and more than 1,500 individuals have received vouchers for treatment. Finally, Operation UNITE continues to educate our youth about the dangers of drug abuse; to date, 64,595 counseling sessions have taken place with UNITE substance abuse counselors. For more information on UNITE, visit www.operationunite.org or call 866-678-6483. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
12.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $5 million to produce autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) for the U.S. Navy at Boneal, Inc. in Means, Kentucky. The Senate is expected to vote on this final 2010 defense spending legislation soon. “I applaud members of Congress for supporting this critical funding which helps our brave sailors in the Navy,” said Rogers. “This innovative vehicle will be a crucial factor in the success of critical missions that the Navy undertakes. The hard working men and women in Means, Kentucky have a reputation for producing quality products that help our military serving at home and abroad.” Menifee County-based Boneal Inc. is a Small Business Administration designated HUBZone firm. Boneal Inc. provides goods and services for a number of government agencies including the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Postal Service as well as various private sector companies. Employing individuals from Menifee County, Boneal, Inc. is vital to the local community. This funding will be used for the development of AUVs which will provide support for a variety of missions including intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, deployment of mine counter measures, and assistance of anti-submarine warfare. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
11.07.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers’ (KY-05) statement on why he voted against Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s government-run health care bill today and why he supports the Republican health care plan: “We can all agree that health care costs are too high and that we need to open up access for more Americans. That being said, we need to pass a bill that actually cuts costs and increases access rather than a government-run takeover of your health care,” said Rogers. “Today, I voted against Speaker Pelosi’s monstrosity of a bill because it puts a Washington bureaucrat between you and your doctor, it adds to our enormous debt in Washington, and, even more frightening, it will limit health care availability in rural regions like southern and eastern Kentucky. “In these challenging economic times, with double digit unemployment, out of control government spending sprees, and bailout after bailout, we should not pass a bill that will kill jobs and raise taxes. Speaker Pelosi’s government-run health care bill not only imposes new penalties and taxes on small businesses, it raises taxes on already struggling individuals and families. Whether you want health insurance or not, you’ll be forced to purchase it, and the federal government will garnish your wages or send you to jail if you don’t. Even more troubling, the more vulnerable and ailing you are, the more you’ll pay, as this bill imposes new taxes on critical medical supplies, like wheelchairs, oxygen tanks, hospital beds, and prosthetic limbs. As if that wasn’t enough, the bill opens the floodgates of taxpayer money for illegal immigrants to abuse the system and obtain free government health insurance – all on the backs of law-abiding Americans. Lastly, I am scared for our seniors as this bill makes devastating cuts to the Medicare program to the tune of $500 billion dollars, and puts the popular Medicare Advantage program on life support, virtually eliminating its existence. “I support the Republican alternative health care bill that focuses on lowering health care premiums for families and small businesses, increases access to affordable high-quality health care, and promotes healthier lifestyles without adding to Washington’s crushing debt. The plan I support guarantees access to affordable care for those with pre-existing conditions, ends junk lawsuits against our doctors, allows small businesses to band together to purchase insurance for their employees and allows individuals to shop for insurance across state lines. Simple and less costly initiatives such as these will lower insurance premiums by at least 10%, and provide health insurance to millions more Americans. “Today’s vote reflects a fundamental and drastic change in our way of life, and is the largest government intrusion into the private lives of our citizens ever. I, for one, am truly frightened by the potential consequences.”
11.02.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Congress has approved an additional $1.15 million in federal funding for the acquisition of the Fern Lake watershed for inclusion in Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. Rogers collaborated with Senator Mitch McConnell to secure these funds in the FY 2010 Interior Department Appropriations bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives last week and signed into law by the President on October 30, 2009. “The scenic ‘gateway to the west,’ Cumberland Gap National Historical Park has enabled thousands of visitors to enjoy the rich history, landscape, caves and trails of southeastern Kentucky for generations. The protection of this historic park, and all national parks, is vitally important to both preserving our environment and driving economic development through tourism,” stated Rogers. “Acquiring the Fern Lake watershed for inclusion in Cumberland Gap has long been a priority of mine and Senator McConnell because of its dual functions—preserving the pristine viewshed from the popular Pinnacle Overlook so that future visitors might envision this land as Daniel Boone and his westward-moving pioneers once did, but also ensuring that the community of Middlesboro has access to a clean water supply. I’m pleased to see local and federal officials, along with the contribution of The Trust for Public Land, come together to expand this historic national park.” Senator Mitch McConnell and Congressman Rogers sponsored the Fern Lake Conservation and Recreation Act, enacted in 2004, which authorized the National Park Service to expand the boundary of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park to incorporate the lake and 4,500 acres in its watershed. Since 2005, McConnell and Rogers have secured $4.95 million for this important acquisition, which protects the drinking water supply for the residents Middlesboro, preserves Appalachia’s historic passageway to the west for future generations, and promotes tourism and economic development in surrounding counties. In December 2008, the Trust for Public Land (TPL), a non-profit conservation organization, purchased a key tract of land surrounding Fern Lake from a private landowner, and in a May 28, 2009 ceremony, with the funds secured by McConnell and Rogers, TPL conveyed over 2,000 acres of this property to Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. To date, 4,021 acres of the watershed have been added to the park, and the ultimate goal is to acquire 4,500 acres within the sightline of the park’s popular Pinnacle Overlook. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.30.2009	.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Congress has approved $500,000 for initial planning and design work for an enhanced and expanded statewide Emergency Operations Center (EOC), operated by the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management. These funds were approved by both the House and Senate as part of the FY 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which was signed into law this week by the President. “Mother Nature has been relentless this year. Early in the year the ice storm impacted 103 counties in the Bluegrass state leaving thousands without the basic necessities that we often take for granted. Then in May, central and eastern Kentucky were devastated by torrential floods and tornados that left many homeless,” said Rogers. “Our emergency first responders and the Kentucky National Guard did a phenomenal job with the resources they had in rescue, recovery, and damage prevention, but it is imperative that we have a centralized, modern, and efficient headquarters to coordinate operations before, during and immediately after a disaster strikes. This investment will initiate important planning and design efforts on an expanded EOC.” The $500,000 directed towards the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management will be used to assist with the planning and design of a 7,126 square foot addition to the existing facility which was constructed in 1975. Currently, the emergency operations staff is scattered across Frankfort in three different locations and during a disaster, FEMA and other local, state, and federal partner agencies lack adequate space to properly organize a coordinated government response. The expanded facility will serve as Kentucky’s primary in-state operations response center for coordination during an emergency. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
10.30.2009	.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Congress has approved $10 million for the Kentucky-based National Institute for Hometown Security (NIHS). NIHS, with the collaboration of Kentucky universities and colleges, develops next generation security solutions at the behest of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Science & Technology Directorate. These funds were approved by both the House and Senate as part of the FY 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which was signed into law this week by the President. “The threat of terrorism is real and we need to do all we can to protect our homeland. Continuing research is vital in these uncertain times so that we can address our security risks and vulnerabilities,” said Rogers. “This funding will allow NIHS to invest in the technology and research that we need to keep our communities and families safe and out of harms way. NIHS goes beyond just protecting our country from terrorist attacks -- it also is working on key research that can better prepare our local emergency workers to respond to natural disasters right here in Kentucky.” The non-profit NIHS performs a critical partnering role with the Science and Technology Directorate of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The Directorate identifies the nation’s security technology needs, and NIHS works with Kentucky’s academic community to develop and commercialize solutions for use in the private sector. The Kentucky Homeland Security University Consortium, founded in 2004 along with NIHS, provides the research assets for this initiative. Consortium members are Eastern Kentucky University, the Kentucky Community and Technical College System, Kentucky State University, Morehead State University, Murray State University, Northern Kentucky University, the University of Kentucky, the University of Louisville and Western Kentucky University. Broadening the outreach to the statewide academic community, members of the Association of Independent Kentucky Colleges and Universities work with the consortium as well. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
10.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after Speaker Pelosi unveiled her latest plan for a government takeover of health care that will raise taxes, increase our national debt, and put government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors: “It is no surprise that after weeks of closed door meetings, Speaker Pelosi released yet another version of her government run health care plan. Their latest plan does nothing to control rising health care costs, adds to our already crippling national debt, drastically cuts Medicare and Medicare Advantage which hurts our seniors, and taxes our small businesses and families. “I stand with the people of my district who want real reform, not the government dictating to them what is or isn’t covered. That is why I support the alternative health care proposals that have been introduced by my House Republican colleagues. The bill I support will lower health care costs and improve access without a massive government intervention. “The bill we need would preserve our right to choose our own doctor; protect Medicare and Medicaid, empower small businesses to get better insurance rates, limit junk lawsuits, prevent public funds from paying for abortions, reject a government takeover of our health care system, and would not bankrupt our nation.”
10.28.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) and Congressman Geoff Davis (KY-04) today announced that a $2 million grant will be awarded to the University of Kentucky’s Center for Applied Energy Research (UK-CAER) for the development of coal-to-liquids technology that would reduce dependence on foreign oil and open new markets for Kentucky’s coal mining economy. The funding comes from Congressional appropriations that Reps. Rogers and Davis secured in the FY10 Energy and Water Appropriations Act, which was signed into law by the President today. “Rising energy costs create a huge burden on Kentucky’s hard-working families that are already struggling with economic uncertainty and job losses in these challenging times. We need to make a more concerted effort to wean ourselves from the stronghold of unfriendly foreign countries and utilize the abundant resources here on American soil,” said Rogers. “Coal is the single most abundant resource at our disposal in the United States, and the basic technology to convert coal into liquid fuel has been around for decades. Now is the time to make targeted investments that engage our best and brightest in the quest to make clean, coal-based transportation fuel commercially available and lower the price at the pump for American consumers and the U.S. military. I am confident that the ground-breaking research performed by scientists at UK-CAER will prove vital on both the national and local levels, particularly in the creation of high-paying jobs here in Kentucky.” Congressman Davis stated, “Energy prices are a major factor in determining the cost of living and the cost of doing business in a particular location. In this time of economic hardship, investing in new energy technology is one of the smartest things we can do to spur our recovery. By encouraging the development of new technology like coal to liquids that will produce cleaner energy, we can attain greater energy independence, reinvigorate our economy and create thousands of new jobs, right here at home. I am very pleased that the University of Kentucky will receive these funds.” This funding will enable UK-CAER to expand upon its ongoing coal-to-liquids research by constructing a small-scale refinery to develop more efficient and environmentally-friendly methods for coal liquefaction. This important research into the manufacturing process of coal-to-liquids technology is widely seen as a critical next step to engage private investors in larger-scale commercial projects. To date, Reps. Rogers and Davis have worked to secure $4.425 million for this applied research project. In addition to pushing for more federal dollars dedicated to alternative energy research, Reps. Rogers and Davis have joined like-minded colleagues in supporting comprehensive legislation to combat soaring energy and gas prices and create a stable, long-term domestic source of affordable energy for working families, seniors and veterans in Kentucky. The American Energy Act (H.R. 2846) takes an “all-of-the-above” approach to reducing and stabilizing energy prices by increasing the supply of American-made energy, improving conservation and efficiency, and promoting renewable and alternative energy technologies. Passage of H.R. 2846 would authorize the Secretary of Energy to enter into price guarantee agreements with up to six coal-to-liquids projects that produce innovative transportation fuel – creating a level of certainty for private investment in domestic coal-to-liquids production.
10.28.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that Congress has approved federal funding to research alternative energy sources in southern and eastern Kentucky. Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations bill includes $250,000 for Morehead State University (MSU) to conduct a study on the availability of bioenergy resources throughout the region. Both the House and Senate passed this legislation and today the President signed the bill into law. “Reducing our dependence on foreign oil and producing energy right here in Kentucky is an important and achievable goal,” said Rogers. “From clean coal technology to bioenergy, Kentucky has the resources necessary to produce affordable alternative energy. Investing in our natural resources is vital for improving our environment and for lessening our reliance on countries like Venezuela and Iran. I applaud MSU for their efforts to make a difference right here in southern and eastern Kentucky.” The FY 2010 Department of Energy funding bill provides $250,000 for Morehead State University to analyze the availability of bioenergy in Appalachia. Bioenergy resources include eastern Kentucky’s vast abundance of wood residues (from forests and mills), underutilized land, corn, switchgrass, wheat straw and animal wastes. Domestic bioenergy development could allow the United States to become less dependent on energy from fossil fuels, create a more energy efficient and environmentally-sound fuel stock, and decrease our dependence on foreign energy resources. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.28.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Congress approved $969,000 for PRIDE to continue its valuable environmental initiatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers secured this important funding for water treatment efforts in the region. These funds were approved by both the House and Senate as part of the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which was signed into law today by the President. “I am pleased to see this important funding signed into law today. PRIDE continues to make a difference throughout our region by improving our water and restoring our environment to its natural beauty,” said Rogers. “This funding will specifically target PRIDE’s water treatment program, which is an ongoing effort to eliminate straight pipes and failing septic systems in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. This funding will allow PRIDE to continue to give our communities access to safe, sanitary water while promoting the values of personal responsibility and conservation.” PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. This funding will enable PRIDE to continue its collaboration with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on important water treatment projects in the region. The Corps’ Section 531 program provides grants to counties, cities and utilities for innovative wastewater treatment projects, sewer line extensions or treatment plant upgrades in rural areas at a 75/25 federal/local cost share, which vastly reduce pollution otherwise headed for local lakes, rivers and streams. Since its inception in 1996, Rogers has secured over $195 million for PRIDE and PRIDE-related sewer and water infrastructure projects. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.27.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Energy has awarded a $9,538,234 Smart Grid technology grant to South Kentucky Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation (SKRECC) to upgrade its current electric metering system to an “automated meter infrastructure” (AMI) network, which will promote energy efficiency, cost savings and environmental stewardship benefiting over 66,000 power users. “High energy bills stifle economic growth and strain the pocketbook of working families and seniors on fixed incomes. This funding will enable SKRECC to improve the way in which we receive our electricity and ultimately help to lower costs and save money for consumers,” said Rogers. “This federal investment will also improve upon the more expensive and traditional meter-reading system in favor of a more accurate and technology-driven system. These types of 21st century infrastructure improvements help make our region attractive to new investment by power dependent, high-tech and manufacturing businesses and lead to the jobs of the future.” The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 charged the U.S. Department of Energy with modernizing the nation’s electricity grid to improve its reliability and efficiency. A major pillar of this effort, the Smart Grid program aims to utilize advanced information-age technologies to move the country’s electric system to a more consumer-interactive and environmentally sensitive model. Upgrading the electric metering system to AMI will enable SKRECC and its consumers to make more energy efficient choices and reduce consumer costs by eliminating the need for manual meter reading expenses. In addition, SKRECC will be able to more easily control the electrical load and shift usage from on-peak to off-peak periods, which will improve overall system efficiency and lower carbon emissions. More information is available at www.smartgrid.gov. SKRECC has provided electricity and related services to its members since 1938. SKRECC employs 162 individuals, serves over 66,000 customers and maintains over 6,600 miles of distribution line and nearly 50,000 transformers. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.27.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded Morehead State University (MSU) with a $235,620 Rural Health Care Grant to continue to bring community wellness and health care services to Martin County. This program is part of an ongoing rural health demonstration program launched by Rogers and begun at the Roy F. Collier Community Center in Inez. “This is great news for the people of Martin County,” said Rogers. “By providing new resources to focus on preventative health care, the community will now be better equipped to address the health care problems that have plagued our region for far too long. MSU is leading the way with this rural demonstration initiative and these new funds will put our efforts on the road and to the front door of Martin County communities. Taking the time to invest in health education, prevention and detection will go a long way to improving the health and well-being of our families.” MSU will use the funds to continue the “Martin County on the Move” health outreach demonstration program initiated by Rogers in 2008 and to launch a new effort aimed at overcoming health care barriers such as accessibility and affordability. This targeted and comprehensive project works with community leaders, schools and businesses to draw attention to healthy lifestyle choices and combat the region’s high rate of diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. The funds will be used to launch a mobile prevention and wellness van, create health assessment, fitness and exercise and disease prevention events. To date, Rogers has secured $1,015,620 in funding for this important initiative. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the Fifth Congressional district.
10.27.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Community Services has awarded a $765,828 grant to the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC). KHIC will use these funds to create 45 jobs through Patriot Industries in Wayne County. “KHIC has long been known for their efforts to create jobs and bring new opportunities to our region,” said Rogers. “This funding is great news for the people of Wayne County. New jobs will help to improve the economic health of our region and help relieve families that have been struggling in these challenging times. Creating environments in which are businesses can excel is critical to our communities and KHIC should be commended for their hard work and strong vision.” KHIC is using this HHS grant to enable Patriot Industries to expand homeland security business opportunities and employ as many as 45 individuals in this endeavor. Patriot Industries is a HubZone certified business that specializes in cutting and sewing, injection molding, screen printing, sonic welding, manufacturing, and warehousing. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.27.2009	.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Community Services has approved a $600,000 grant for the Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation (SKED) to create 40 jobs in Cumberland, Kentucky. SKED will utilize these funds to execute and oversee a business expansion and equipment purchase loan to Southeastern Kentucky Rehabilitation Industries, Inc (SEKRI). “This is great news for the working families of Harlan County,” said Rogers. “These funds will go a long way toward putting people back to work and helping families in these challenging economic times. SEKRI is a local success story and with these funds this locally-focused enterprise will receive the financing and technical assistance necessary to grow, compete, and perform at the highest level. When given the chance, our businesses and our hardworking people can produce top quality goods and services. SKED has done it again.” SKED is a non-profit organization charged with encouraging economic development and job creation throughout the 42-county area in Southern and Eastern Kentucky. Begun by Rogers and likeminded business and community leaders in the region 23 years ago, SKED is also one of the key components of The Center for Rural Development in Somerset. SEKRI is a nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is to provide personnel, facilities and services for persons with disabilities, enabling them to obtain and maintain meaningful employment opportunities. SEKRI manufactures clothing for the U.S. military and have annual sales exceeding $35,000,000. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.23.2009	U.S. Congressman. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that Operation UNITE’s School-Based Adolescent Substance Abuse Counselor Program has received a $618,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Service’s (HHS) Center for Substance Abuse Prevention to prevent students from using drugs and to help treat those who are currently addicted. “Operation UNITE gives hope to those families who are struggling to help loved ones grappling with drug addiction,” said Rogers. “No doubt, this grant from HHS will go a long way to educate our youth about the dangers of drugs and provide hope for those who need treatment. The more our communities band together in this fight, the more successful we will be in keeping drugs off our streets and protecting our children from the dangers of substance abuse.” Operation UNITE’s In-School Adolescent Substance Abuse Counselors assist adolescents in ending use and abuse of alcohol, tobacco and other drug use; supports students, their families, schools and communities in minimizing potential drug abuse risk factors; and helps youth access recovery support services. The program will also assist in drug treatment program referrals in the 29 counties that comprise Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.23.2009	U.S. Congressman. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that Operation UNITE’s Substance Abuse Treatment Voucher Program has received a $714,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Service’s (HHS) Center for Substance Abuse Prevention to assist individuals seeking treatment for substance abuse. “Treatment is one of the most effective ways to treat those bound by the chains of addiction,” said Rogers. “Operation UNITE should be commended for their three-pronged strategy -- investigation, education and treatment -- to fight the scourge of drugs in our region. It is refreshing to see our communities come together to help those who are seeking assistance. We can draw our strength from one another to keep drugs off our streets and protect our families from the perils of addiction.” Operation UNITE’s Substance Abuse Treatment Voucher Program assists individuals and families living in Kentucky’s Fifth Congressional District that suffer from substance abuse issues. UNITE will provide a one-time limited payment for substance abuse treatment at residential facilities. As of April 30, 2009, Operation UNITE’s Treatment Voucher Program has had 3,634 applications taken since inception. Over 1,440 participants have entered a residential treatment program and 919 of those participants have completed a residential substance abuse treatment program. UNITE intends on assisting at least 120 voucher recipients enter a residential substance abuse treatment program through this funding. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.16.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the National Science Foundation, through its Major Research Implementation Program, has awarded Morehead State University with a $175,456 grant for the purchase of specialized modern electronics equipment. The MSU research team will use this equipment to further enhance important research projects. “Providing new technology so that our students have the ability to explore complex issues and expand much needed research is essential for our continued advancement,” said Rogers. “I am pleased to see that researchers and students at MSU are paving the way for new discoveries right here in Kentucky. MSU should be proud that their professors and students have been awarded with these tools that will continue to put them ahead of the curve.” Morehead State University researchers and students will use this funding to purchase equipment for advanced projects that are helping to expand knowledge of large scale integrated circuits, which are the backbone of modern electronics. Through these efforts, professors hope to solve problematic issues that prevent some applications from large-scale production. The National Science Foundation Major Research Instrumentation Program serves to increase access to shared scientific and engineering instruments for research and research training in our Nation’s institutions of high education. This program especially seeks to improve the quality and expand the scope of research and research training in science and engineering by providing shared instrumentation that fosters the integration of research and education in research-intensive learning environments. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.08.2009	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) voted to commemorate Revolutionary War Hero General Casimir Pulaski by supporting and co-sponsoring H.J. Res. 26, which grants him honorary posthumous citizenship. This honor has only been bestowed upon 5 other individuals. “I am proud to honor General Casimir Pulaski who is known as the ‘father of the American cavalry,’” said Rogers. “Kentucky’s Pulaski County is named after this great Revolutionary War Hero who famously came from Poland to America to fight for freedom. The legend of General Pulaski should be remembered by posthumously bestowing upon him honorary citizenship, a tribute fitting for such a defender of freedom and liberty.” General Pulaski left his native Poland and fought on the side of the colonists against the British in the American Revolution. George Washington bestowed the rank of brigadier general on Pulaski, who organized a legion of cavalry known as the Pulaski legion. Famously, he said, “I came here, where freedom is being defended, to serve it, and to live or die for it.” General Pulaski was mortally wounded in Savannah, Georgia and was taken aboard the American ship USS Wasp, where he died at sea on October 11, 1779. H.J.Res. 26 passed by a vote of 422-0 in the U.S. House of Representatives. The joint resolution now awaits further action in the Senate before it can be signed into law.
10.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the Bureau of Health Professionals, has awarded Morehead State University with $30,633 in scholarships for disadvantaged students. This award will help low-income individuals pursue education in the nursing and health care fields. “Helping students achieve their educational goals is an utmost priority,” said Rogers. “I am glad to see that Morehead State University will be better equipped to help individuals on their path to become nurses and health care professionals. There are many students who face the added pressure of financial difficulties in these challenging economic times, so it refreshing to know that these funds will go directly to students who are in financial need.” HHS’ Scholarships for Disadvantaged Students Program provides scholarships to full-time, low income students from disadvantaged backgrounds, enrolled in health professions and nursing programs. Participating schools, such as Morehead State University, are responsible for selecting scholarship recipients and making reasonable determinations of need. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.05.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers announced today that the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has again selected London-based Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) to receive a $1 million award. Kentucky Highlands will use the award to make financing available to local businesses and community activities to produce meaningful careers and expand business operations in Appalachia. “Kentucky Highlands is an invaluable partner toward creating good-paying jobs, spurring business development, and helping entrepreneurs gain the technical know-how and financial backing to turn an idea into reality,” said Rogers. “This grant will help expand opportunities, leverage new investments, and ease cash flow for businesses in southern and eastern Kentucky. Kentucky Highlands not only makes strategic financing available, but helps company officials with the hard work of budgeting, hiring the right people, identifying key growth areas, developing a successful business plan, and formulating a proven marketing strategy. The fingerprints of this organization are widespread and I applaud them on their most recent designation by the U.S. Treasury.” KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in southern and eastern Kentucky. Since 2003, KHIC encompasses twenty two counties, which includes the counties of Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne and Whitley. Their mission is to provide and retain employment opportunities in southern and eastern Kentucky through sound investments and management assistance. CDFI was established as a bipartisan initiative through the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to promote economic revitalization and community development through investment and assistance to community development financial institutions, such as Kentucky Highlands. Their mission is to provide credit, capital, and financial services to underserved populations and communities in the United States. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.02.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement today regarding the latest national unemployment numbers rising to 9.8%: “The latest labor statistics released today is a sobering reminder of the hardship our citizens are facing. The unemployment rate now stands at 9.8% nationally, and it is even worse here in Kentucky. Since the passage of the President’s so-called “stimulus” bill in February, nearly 3 million jobs have been lost. Clearly, it’s not working. Rather than focus on creating jobs, bringing new economic development to our communities and relieving the tax burden on our hard working families, President Obama is instead focusing on the opposite -- pushing an agenda in Washington that includes taxing electricity, shutting down the coal industry, and taking over your healthcare. Enough is enough. It is high time to stop the trillion dollar spending sprees and bailouts in Washington and focus on getting our economy moving again.”
10.01.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved funding for the continued rehabilitation of Wolf Creek Dam. Today, the House passed the FY10 Energy & Water Appropriations Conference Report, which includes $116 million in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ budget for ongoing repairs at the dam. Following Senate passage, this legislation is expected to move to the White House to be signed into law. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this important funding for Wolf Creek Dam,” said Rogers. “Kentucky’s crown jewel, Lake Cumberland, is open for business and this funding will go a long way towards restoring the lake to its original water level. This process has not been without its challenges as tourism has suffered and hurt the local economy throughout the dam’s construction but I am hopeful these additional funds will keep the overall project moving steadily and safely forward so that we can stay on track for a timely completion.” The Wolf Creek Dam project is the top dam safety project for the Corps in the nation and in July 2008, the Corps awarded a $341 million joint venture contract to Treviicos-Soletanche JV for the construction of a 4200-foot concrete barrier wall at the dam. Treviicos-Soletanche recently began installation a Protective Concrete Embankment Wall (PCEW), which is the first stage of barrier wall construction and will increase dam safety during the remainder of construction. Once the President signs this legislation into law, $297 million in federal funding will have been dedicated toward this project. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
10.01.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved federal funding for flood control efforts in southern and eastern Kentucky. Today, the House passed the FY10 Energy & Water Appropriations Conference Report, which included $9.5 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to protect the region from future flooding. Following Senate passage, this legislation is expected to move to the White House to be signed into law. “Mother Nature has been relentless this year. From the winter ice storms to the May floods, it is clear that southern and eastern Kentucky has an urgent need for continued flood control projects,” said Rogers. “The devastation from rushing flood waters has damaged our communities but it has not dampened our spirit. This funding will go a long way toward repairing the destruction of these storms and help to protect our families and our communities from future natural disasters.” The FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations Conference Report provides $9.5 million for flood control and flood damage reduction activities along the Levisa and Tug forks of the Big Sandy and Cumberland Rivers. This includes funding for construction projects in the Town of Martin, the cities of Cumberland and Middlesboro, the community of Clover Fork, as well as county-wide flood reduction projects in Harlan, Martin, Bell and Pike Counties. Funding will also be made available to continue studies in Floyd, Knox, Johnson and Whitley Counties. Administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with local input, these funds build on over two decades of coordinated planning and construction to flood proof and protect homes and communities throughout southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
10.01.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved federal funding for flood control efforts in the Town of Martin. Today, the House passed the FY10 Energy & Water Appropriations Conference Report, which included $9.5 million for flood control and flood damage reduction activities along the Levisa and Tug forks of the Big Sandy and Cumberland Rivers. The legislation requires the Corps to dedicate at least $3 million towards activities in Martin, and directs the Corps to expedite the acquisition of eligible structures impacted by the May 2009 flooding event. Following Senate passage, this legislation is expected to move to the White House to be signed into law. “I am pleased to see that my colleagues in Congress made funding for the town of Martin a priority,” said Rogers. “Martin has a history of devastating flooding and the May 2009 storms were yet another blow to a community that is facing so many challenges from natural disasters. This funding is a positive step that brings renewed hope as the Corps will immediately start buying out structures damaged by the recent floods. Despite the hurdles that may lie ahead, these vital funds are making the relocation of the town of Martin a reality so that families and businesses can re-establish their roots, breathe life into the local economy and restore this vibrant community.” Phase I of the project, construction of the elevated commercial re-development site, is 100% complete. This legislation directs the Corps to expedite the Phase 3 and Phase 4 acquisition of properties that were damaged by the floodwaters in the May 2009 flood event. Approximately 180 commercial and residential structures in the mandatory and voluntary acquisition programs will ultimately be eligible to participate. The Corps is expected to move forward with relevant pre-acquisition activities in the near future, including a landowners meeting, title searches and property appraisals. To date, Rogers has secured nearly $30 million for the flood control project in Martin. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $2 million for Morehead State University (MSU) to develop and test solar power technologies applicable to satellites. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which has passed the House of Representatives and awaits further action by the U.S. Senate. “Our brave men and women in uniform deserve the very best technology to keep our country safe,” said Rogers. “Morehead State University is leading the way in developing innovative solutions that will strengthen our military operations and ability to perform precision tactical warfare. By undertaking satellite solar power research, MSU is doing its part to give our warfighters confidence in the tools necessary to effectively carry-out missions.” The Space Science Center at MSU supports the U.S. aerospace and electronics industries by pursuing research and development in small satellite systems and micro technologies, and by training a space-related workforce of graduates with these skills. MSU is working with the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command to look at increasing the power available from solar cells through innovative mechanical structures and by increasing surface area. This effort is in direct support of the Army’s mission to develop nano-satellites to meet tactical warfighter requirements. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
09.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $2 million for the University of Kentucky’s Marty Driesler Cancer Project. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives on July 30, 2009 and is awaiting further action by the Senate. “So many families throughout the Commonwealth are devastated by a loved one stricken with cancer. Now, thanks to advances in modern medicine, early detection can be the key to save those who fall victim to this terrible disease,” said Rogers. “Right here in Kentucky, UK is working with highly skilled medical professionals on the Marty Driesler Cancer Project. Their efforts have paved the way to discover lung cancer at the earliest stages so that even more lives can be saved. I applaud the House for approving this vital funding so that this important work can continue and so these efforts can be expanded to address cancer detection among our current and former soldiers, sailors, and airmen.” Created in 2004, the Marty Driesler Cancer Project is a lethal cancers early detection and awareness program. The program is named in honor of Congressman Rogers’ former chief of staff, who died in November 2003 after a three-year battle with lung cancer. The University of Kentucky (UK), nationally known for its work and research in the field of cancer detection and treatment, continues to oversee its application at four regional healthcare facilities in Hazard, Somerset, Prestonsburg, and Morehead. These organizations have established robust community research programs, and have successfully recruited individuals who continue to be screened for lung cancer with yearly CT scans. In addition, important samples have been collected, and will serve as a unique resource for researchers who are developing screening blood tests for lung cancer and for epidemiologists studying this dreaded disease. In the past six years, Rogers has secured $3.75 million for the Marty Driesler Cancer Project. The most recently approved funding is to help continue the current research, as well as expand the focus to include veterans. Specifically, this new funding can provide the Department of Defense (DOD) with health information to identify high risk factors and exposures to cancer in military environments, and provide a model for early cancer detection and screening. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
09.25.2009	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that Boneal Inc. has received an order worth $2,338,754 to manufacture and deliver Fifth Class Unlighted Buoys to the United States Coast Guard, of which, a large share of the work will be performed in Means, Kentucky. These red and green navigational buoys serve as important directional tools for boats and ships on U.S. waterways. “This order from the U.S. Coast Guard shows once again that our businesses and our people can compete,” said Rogers. “Right here in Menifee County, the hard working people of southern and eastern Kentucky are producing important navigational buoys. We have the capabilities to produce and manufacture unique products, delivery quality services and meet the demands of the 21st Century homeland security market. Even in these tough times, we’re keeping and creating good jobs and Boneal continues to be a regional leader and star performer.” Menifee County-based Boneal Inc. is a Small Business Administration designated HUBZone firm. Boneal Inc. provides goods and services for a number of government agencies including the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Postal Service as well as various private sector companies. This contract with the U.S. Coast Guard, a primary component of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), follows up a five-year contract previously awarded to Boneal to perform this important work. As a senior member of the House appropriations committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
09.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) was honored today by The Alliance of States with Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs for his leadership and continued efforts to rid the nation of prescription drug abuse. “I am deeply honored to be recognized today,” said Rogers. “Southern and eastern Kentucky has been hit hard by the epidemic of drug abuse and I have witnessed first-hand the devastation that is wrought on families and communities. Stopping the spread of this affliction can only be done at the local levels. Operation UNITE and KASPER have been wildly successful throughout my region and that is because the people of Appalachia have banded together and said enough is enough. Together, we will continue to make progress as we fight against prescription drug abuse here in Kentucky and across the nation.” In 2002, Rogers collaborated with Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) to establish the Harold Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program within the Department of Justice. Since then, 47 states and territories have utilized funds from this grant program to plan, implement or enhance prescription drug monitoring programs. This grant program is also currently supporting a project to help states exchange prescription data, which is a vital component in combating an uptick in interstate doctor shopping that has presented a challenge for both the medical and law enforcement communities. Congressman Rogers has worked to secure $48 million for the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program. Having seen the rising numbers of people abusing prescription drugs and selling them illegally, Rogers supports this system so that law enforcement and the medical community can effectively monitor drug distribution and diversion. The Alliance of States with Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, which represents all the states that have prescription drug monitoring programs, recognized Rogers for the instrumental role he played in funding this important program which has protected and improved public health and safety for so many around the nation. The award from The Alliance of States with Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs was presented to Congressman Rogers at their annual meeting held in Washington, DC on September 24, 2009.
09.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $4.5 million to improve the production capability of Aspen Compressors LLC toward manufacturing highly-valued miniaturized cooling compressors. Eventually, these mini-compressors can assist military men and women in extreme battlefield temperatures and keep cool the electronic support systems they rely on. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives on July 30, 2009 and is awaiting further action by the Senate. “Aspen Compressors is well on its way to being an entrepreneurial success story. Aspen is at the forefront of compressor miniaturization and their recognized development efforts will play a significant role in providing endless military and commercial cooling solutions,” said Rogers. “The desert climates of Afghanistan and Iraq are ruthless working environments and these light-weight cooling compressors can help prevent heat stroke and have the potential to help save soldiers lives. In addition to the personal cooling benefits, the miniature compressors also serve as a chilling device for electronics and all the necessary support systems used by a 21st Century warfighter.” Aspen Compressors specializes in small and lightweight thermal management systems that are best suited for mobile and portable cooling. Aspen Compressors, an affiliate of Aspen Systems, opened doors to its Somerset manufacturing facility on September 17, 2007. Over the past three years, Rogers has secured over $8.1 million for the research and production of these important compressors. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
09.21.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved federal funding to research alternative energy sources in southern and eastern Kentucky. Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations bill includes $250,000 for Morehead State University to begin a study on the availability of bioenergy resources throughout the region. “Finding and cataloging our domestic energy resources is not only important for our long-term economic growth, keeping energy bills low for small businesses and working families, and creating good-paying Kentucky jobs, but it is absolutely essential to our national security,” said Rogers. “By taking an “all of the above” approach to energy, we have the potential to increase our supply right here at home and lessen our dependence on foreign oil while strengthening our global position in dealing with Russia, Venezuela, and Iran. We need to continue to invest in conservation and alternative energy projects so that we reduce costs in the short-term as we fine tune new technologies to provide a stable, long-term source of affordable and environmentally-friendly energy and southern and eastern Kentucky is an ideal place to start.” The FY 2010 Department of Energy funding bill provides $250,000 for Morehead State University to analyze the availability of bioenergy in Appalachia. Bioenergy resources include eastern Kentucky’s vast abundance of wood residues (from forests and mills), underutilized land, corn, switchgrass, wheat straw, and animal wastes. Domestic bioenergy development could allow the United States to become less dependent on energy from fossil fuels, create a more energy efficient and environmentally-sound fuel stock, and decrease our dependence on foreign energy resources. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 17, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
09.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding his opposition to President Obama’s support of a government run health care program and put forward his ideas for real health care reform: “We don’t need a new speech. We need a new bill. “The bill I support protects Medicare and Medicaid; ensures workers can take their insurance between jobs; allows citizens to shop for insurance across state lines; helps small businesses join together to get a better insurance rate; and limits junk lawsuits against doctors so they don’t have to practice “defensive medicine” at a huge expense to the rest of us. “The bill we need would preserve our right to choose our own doctor; would prevent public funds from paying for abortions; rejects a huge government bureaucracy to run our health system, ensures individual rights and decisions; and would not bankrupt our nation as the President’s plan would.”
08.31.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) on the “Cap and Trade” legislation before the United States Senate: “Hello. This is Congressman Hal Rogers. “As we head into September I wanted to bring your attention to an important issue that will be facing the Congress in the upcoming months. “Cap and Trade” is a bill that passed the House in June without my support and is now up for debate in the U.S. Senate. Though the bill claims to protect our environment, in reality it is nothing more than a $646 billion “carbon tax” paid by every American, rich or poor and every business, small or large. Every time you turn on your lights, the tax would begin. “I don’t need to remind you that gas prices are already rising and utility rates are going up. With nearly 11% unemployment in Kentucky, its no secret that our people are hurting. “Yet despite the hard times America is in, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi are determined to pass this “Cap and Trade” bill that will charge consumers a fee just for turning on the lights, driving to work, or heating their home in the winter. “Even worse, Kentucky will be hit the worst from this boondoggle because 95% of our power comes from coal, and this bill takes dead aim at coal. If this “Cap and Trade” bill becomes law, we will go from the lowest electricity rates in the nation, to the highest – an estimated increase of hundreds of dollars a year when fully implemented. “Kentuckians can’t afford this national energy tax, nor do they want it; rather, the people of Kentucky want energy independence. That means sound investments in alternative energy technologies like clean coal, natural gas, and nuclear. It means passing an affordable energy plan that breaks our dependence on foreign oil and unlocks the vast energy resources sitting untapped on American soil and our coastlines. “Let me know how you feel. Visit my website at halrogers.house.gov.”
08.28.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $9 million to continue production of specialized military tents manufactured by employees of Outdoor Venture Corporation (OVC) in McCreary County. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives on July 30, 2009 and is awaiting further action by the Senate. “I am happy to announce that OVC has received additional funding to keep up their important work of developing world-class shelters for our brave men and women in uniform,” said Rogers. “OVC not only provides exceptional products for our military, they are leaders in the community and participate in community development and job training for the people of Stearns. It is refreshing to see a thriving company working so hard to keep people employed and provide new opportunities for McCreary County.” Founded in 1972, OVC has been manufacturing military tents since 1984. To date, OVC has delivered more than $260 million of their products to their government contractors. OVC is essential to McCreary County as it employs hundreds of individuals from the community and has built a reputation for exceptional value and quality products. Rogers secured $6 million to fund the procurement of U.S. Army modular command post tents. This tent is specially designed to be packed and relocated quickly which is essential for today’s military operations and can easily be used as a command post, tactical operations center, and for a variety of other purposes such as administration, supply, medical and maintenance facility. In addition to this funding, Rogers secured $3 million for U.S. Army air-supported temper tents which are essential in rapid deployment scenarios. These air beam tents meet the military’s need for a tent that provides a multipurpose shelter for billeting, field feeding, administrative, kitchen, shower, and medical uses, and is designed to function in all weather conditions. In the past six years, Rogers has been successful in securing over $38 million for tent assembly right in the heart of McCreary County. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
08.28.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $5 million to continue retrofitting U.S. Army helicopters with leak proof transmission fluid drip pans for the HH-60 Blackhawk Helicopter that are produced by workers at Phoenix Products in McKee. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives on July 30, 2009 and is awaiting further action by the Senate. “The hard work from the employees of Phoenix Products is evident in the outstanding products they continue to make and machine for our warfighters and National Guardsmen aboard Blackhawk helicopters,” said Rogers. “The drip pans produced right here in Jackson County have a strong reputation for quality and durability which is essential to keeping this Army air workhorse maintenance free and ensuring these aircraft are safe in the skies over Afghanistan, Fort Campbell, and the Daniel Boone National Forest.” Phoenix Products was incorporated in 1973 and specializes in composite solutions and custom interiors for military aircraft, especially the Blackhawk helicopter. With an experienced engineering and production staff, Phoenix Products prides themselves on quality and design. Employing individuals from Jackson County, Phoenix Products is vital to the local community. Over the past six years, Rogers has secured over $17 million for transmission drip pan assembly in Jackson County. This legislation secures $2.5 million to retrofit U.S. Army transmission drip pans and $2.5 million for U.S. Army National Guard Drip Pans. The UH-60 leak proof transmission drip pan, produced by Phoenix Products, has been operating for over ten years and fits on all variants of the Blackhawk helicopter. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
08.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that he has secured an additional $250,000 toward construction of the Appalachian Rural Wellness Center, a health and wellness facility in Barbourville. This funding was included in the FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representatives on July 23, 2009. “Significant progress has been made this year toward bringing a community wellness center to Knox County and this is an important next step,” said Rogers. “This construction funding, coupled with previous federal, state and local investments, will bring a top-notch work-out facility to Barbourville residence. As medical bills increase, being physically fit is more important than ever toward keeping medical costs low and raising healthy families. I’m confident this facility, when completed, will promote and encourage active lifestyles. It should be noted that through a unique and lasting partnership of the City of Barbourville, Knox County Fiscal Court, Union College, and KCEOC, we’re making important strides to improve the quality of life in our region.” The proposed $15 million Barbourville health and wellness facility, The Robert Stivers, II Appalachian Rural Wellness Initiative Center, would be the first of its kind in the region. The initial groundbreaking, foundation work, and site preparation for the Center began in October 2006, located on Barner Lane in Barbourville. The initial $7.2 million phase will include a 50-meter pool, therapy pool, small workout area and locker rooms with remaining phases to include facility expansion and enhancement. Facility staffing and operations will eventually be handled by Union College. The funding for the Center includes a variety of private investment, state coal severance, Appalachian Regional Commission grant funds, tax credits and $1,775,000 secured by Congressman Rogers since 2002. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
08.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) applauding PRIDE and their efforts to keep southern and eastern Kentucky clean: “Hello. This is Congressman Hal Rogers. “In these challenging times, it is nice to reflect on the positive changes happening all around us. PRIDE, personal responsibility in a desirable environment, is a bright spot for our beautiful region. “In fact, more than 25,000 Kentuckians joined together for PRIDE’s annual spring clean-up earlier this year. To date, nearly one million tires have been removed from our hillsides and over 135,000 tons of trash have been collected. When people join together to take personal responsibility you truly do create a desirable environment. Have you noticed how clean we’re looking these days? “PRIDE also rushed to help those families devastated by the May floods. From delivering food and essential items to removing debris left behind, PRIDE demonstrated the heart of southeastern Kentucky. We can make a difference when we come together. “I am proud to have secured over 198 million dollars for PRIDE over the years to improve our water, educate our children, and continue their efforts throughout our region. My sincere thanks to each and every one of you who continue to invest time and energy into PRIDE and your communities. Get involved. Log onto www.kypride.org.”
08.17.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) applauding Operation UNITE and their efforts to fight against drugs: “Hello. This is Congressman Hal Rogers: “Southern and Eastern Kentucky have been hit hard by the epidemic of drug abuse. Thankfully, Operation UNITE has been able to tackle the problems of addiction by taking dealers off our streets, treating those who are addicted and educating our families and youth. “Since UNITE was founded in 2003, I am proud to say that I have secured nearly 49 million dollars to fight the war against drugs right here in southeastern Kentucky, including $6.5 million in new funds that are pending approval in the current federal budget. “These dollars are making a difference. “More than 3,000 drug dealers have been put in jail. “More than 8 million dollars of illegal drugs have been taken off our streets. “Nearly 2,000 individuals have been given an opportunity to seek treatment for their deadly addiction. “30 new drug courts are now helping cure hopeless addicts. “UNITE clubs and youth programs are in our schools to protect and educate our children. “Today, I want to encourage you to continue the battle against drugs and to remain hopeful that we will succeed in this fight. To learn more about Operation UNITE, log on to w-w-w-dot-operation-unite-dot-org.”
08.13.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture- Rural Development (USDA-RD) has awarded $100,000 to the Magoffin County Health Department for important supply and medical equipment purchases to serve Salyersville and the surrounding communities. “This funding is opening up more doors and opportunities to the people of Magoffin County. Increased access to health care is important and meets the needs of so many in our rural communities,” said Rogers. “County Health Departments are now more than ever an essential part of the health care safety net in this region and this investment in Magoffin County will aid in continuing these important services. USDA Rural Development continues as a valued partner in serving our rural communities with clean water, police protection and medical delivery.” The funds will be used to purchase medical, administrative, environmental testing, diagnostic, office and technology equipment for a new building that houses the Magoffin County Health Department. The health department currently offers programs ranging from abstinence education, community health classes and emergency preparedness to the surrounding residents. Magoffin County’s stated goal is to have a safe, clean, healthy, family-oriented, drug free, united community with opportunities for economic, education, recreational and personal development. USDA-RD Economic Impact Initiative Grants are available to rural communities with a population of 20,000 or less. The funds are used to construct, enlarge, or improve community facilities for health care and public services. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
08.13.2009	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded a grant to the Big Sandy Regional Airport. The $60,000 Airport Improvement Grant will fund stronger, reinforced parking pads to accommodate increased helicopter traffic at this important eastern Kentucky airport. “Helicopters are absolutely critical tools during emergencies and law enforcement response as well as regional business promotion,” said Rogers. “This funding is vital for the Big Sandy region as the airport has seen increasing air traffic and needs to meet the growing needs of the flying public. Both local and national business developers want to see the terrain they’ll be putting the next generation of businesses on and increased helicopter parking and landing access creates endless opportunities to showcase Martin, Pike, Johnson and Floyd counties. I applaud the FAA for their continued support of the airport.” This grant funds the addition of concrete parking pads at the airport in order to maintain the increasing volume of helicopter flights. Since 2004, the airport has received federal grants of $331,000 for runway repairs and fencing improvements. Previously, the airport board won a competitive federal grant to examine bringing commercial air service to the region. Grants are awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA is responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. As a senior member of the House appropriations committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
08.11.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) on students returning to school this August: “Hello. This is Congressman Hal Rogers. “It’s a busy time of the year as families prepare their children to go back to school. Education is the building block for future success. Our children and grandchildren will be the future leaders of our communities, state and nation. The opportunities that exist are endless. “We must be vigilant and encourage our students to stay in school, to take advantage of all that our local schools offer, and remind them of the importance of getting a good education so that they are able to go forward and achieve their dreams. “Right here in southern and eastern Kentucky we are blessed with many unique programs that provide leadership skills for our students and positive messages to guide them on their path to success. “Throughout our communities, 76 UNITE clubs exist in 24 counties. These clubs teach our students about the dangers of drugs and the importance of being a positive influence in the community. “In addition to UNITE clubs, Operation UNITE offers archery in schools, Camp UNITE, Shoot Hoops Not Drugs and Hooked on Fishing so that our children have positive activities and role-models in their lives. “I would also encourage all parents to teach your children to take PRIDE in the environment. Hundreds of outdoor classrooms can be found in our local schools- from nature trails to greenhouses, PRIDE clubs are encouraging our youth to take personal responsibility for the environment around them. “Our youth are the hope of our communities and we should continue to support their education and provide them with the skills they need to lead our region forward.”
08.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), through the COPS Hiring Program, awarded $80,424 for the Cumberland Police Department to keep police on the job and to continue their crime prevention efforts. “Our public safety depends on the efforts of the brave men and women of our community police force who diligently work to protect us,” said Rogers. “Our police officers work everyday to keep our communities safe and to respond to emergency calls. From drug prevention efforts, to shielding our towns from crime, these individuals put our security before all else. This investment in the Cumberland Police Department will help keep officers on staff and will help bolster the safety efforts of Harlan County.” Through his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has long supported local law enforcement efforts within the U.S. Department of Justice. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to the primary law enforcement agency. The grants are used to keep police officers on the job so that local departments can continue their aggressive crime deterrence and policing efforts. The grants cover a wide variety of areas including salary and benefits for existing and new police officers, as well as funding to continue effective crime prevention activities. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
08.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), through the COPS Hiring Program, awarded $91,581 for the Owsley County Sheriff’s Department to keep police on the job and to continue their crime prevention efforts. "Our public safety depends on the efforts of the brave men and women of our community police force who diligently work to protect us,” said Rogers. “Our police officers work everyday to keep our communities safe and to respond to emergency calls. From drug prevention efforts, to shielding our towns from crime, these individuals put our security before all else. This investment in the Owsley County Sheriff’s Department will help keep officers on staff and will help bolster the safety efforts of Owsley County.” Through his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has long supported local law enforcement efforts within the U.S. Department of Justice. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to the primary law enforcement agency. The grants are used to keep police officers on the job so that local departments can continue their aggressive crime deterrence and policing efforts. The grants cover a wide variety of areas including salary and benefits for existing and new police officers, as well as funding to continue effective crime prevention activities. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
08.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), through the COPS Hiring Program, awarded $87,335 for the Benham Police Department to keep police on the job and to continue their crime prevention efforts. “Our public safety depends on the efforts of the brave men and women of our community police force who diligently work to protect us,” said Rogers. “Our police officers work everyday to keep our communities safe and to respond to emergency calls. From drug prevention efforts, to shielding our towns from crime, these individuals put our security before all else. This investment in the Benham Police Department will help keep officers on staff and will help bolster the safety efforts of Harlan County.” Through his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has long supported local law enforcement efforts within the U.S. Department of Justice. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to the primary law enforcement agency. The grants are used to keep police officers on the job so that local departments can continue their aggressive crime deterrence and policing efforts. The grants cover a wide variety of areas including salary and benefits for existing and new police officers, as well as funding to continue effective crime prevention activities. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
08.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), through the COPS Hiring Program, awarded $108,363 for the Hyden Police Department to keep police on the job and to continue their crime prevention efforts. “Our public safety depends on the efforts of the brave men and women of our community police force who diligently work to protect us,” said Rogers. “Our police officers work everyday to keep our communities safe and to respond to emergency calls. From drug prevention efforts, to shielding our towns from crime, these individuals put our security before all else. This investment in the Hyden Police Department will help keep officers on staff and will help bolster the safety efforts of Leslie County.” Through his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has long supported local law enforcement efforts within the U.S. Department of Justice. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to the primary law enforcement agency. The grants are used to keep police officers on the job so that local departments can continue their aggressive crime deterrence and policing efforts. The grants cover a wide variety of areas including salary and benefits for existing and new police officers, as well as funding to continue effective crime prevention activities. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
08.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ), through the COPS Hiring Program, awarded $143,370 for the Coal Run Village Police Department to keep police on the job and to continue their crime prevention efforts. “Our public safety depends on the efforts of the brave men and women of our community police force who diligently work to protect us,” said Rogers. “Our police officers work everyday to keep our communities safe and to respond to emergency calls. From drug prevention efforts, to shielding our towns from crime, these individuals put our security before all else. This investment in the Coal Run Village Police Department will help keep officers on staff and will help bolster the safety efforts of Pike County.” Through his role on the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers has long supported local law enforcement efforts within the U.S. Department of Justice. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to the primary law enforcement agency. The grants are used to keep police officers on the job so that local departments can continue their aggressive crime deterrence and policing efforts. The grants cover a wide variety of areas including salary and benefits for existing and new police officers, as well as funding to continue effective crime prevention activities. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
08.04.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded Health Help, Inc. with a $235,620 grant for technology related equipment to improve patient care. Health Help, Inc. is a non-profit, licensed primary care Federally Qualified Health Center with operations in southern and central Kentucky. “Healthcare is an issue that affects every Kentuckian and fortunately clinics like Health Help offer important medical services to area residents at low costs,” said Rogers. “Whether it is a yearly check-up, cancer screenings, or consultation with doctors on an upcoming surgery, these clinics are a lifeline to many of our neighbors and bring top-notch medicine to our region.” Health Help, Inc. will use this grant to revamp their telecommunications, computer, security, and medical storage systems. This will help enhance patient’s access to comprehensive primary care services, including primary medical, dental, pharmacy, mental health, laboratory, and radiology. Health Help, Inc. was founded by Dr. Phil Curd in 1973. Today, Health Help now operates four community health centers in Jackson, Madison, and Estill Counties, serves over 20,000 patients each year and offers a wide variety of medical services. With 13 physicians, 5 dentists, 3 dental hygienists, 5 pharmacists, 4 nurse practitioners, 1 physician’s assistant and 2 licensed social workers, Health Help, Inc. aims to address the health disparities found in rural, low-income communities. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
08.03.2009	.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) on the government-run health care bill currently making its way through Congress: “Hello. This is Congressman Hal Rogers. “There is no doubt that our country faces many challenges. Our economy in Kentucky continues to struggle, and anxiety levels continue to rise as more Kentuckians lose their jobs. The health and well being of our citizens is one of the main topics of debate here in Washington. “As the Congress looks toward health care reform, I continue to look out for southern and eastern Kentucky. There are some things that we can all agree on. We need better access to health care and we need to lower the cost. “However, the bill that is currently making its way through Congress gives me great cause for concern. The bill proposes the unthinkable – government-run health care for all – even for foreigners illegally living in this country. Whether you want it or not, you’ll be forced to purchase it, and if you don’t, you’ll pay a government-imposed penalty of as much as 8% of your wages. “Forcing people into a one-size-fits-all government-run plan will result in people losing their current coverage. Small businesses will be forced to pay new, steep taxes to pay for it all, and jobs will be lost. Even worse, bureaucrats in Washington who know nothing about your health will be in charge of determining what medical treatments you can get. “We should never gamble with people’s lives. Health care reform is needed, but we should not pass a bad bill that will increase health care costs, force people out of their current insurance, tax small businesses and create more unemployment. “I encourage you to visit my website. Let me know how you feel, at halrogers.house.gov
07.31.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $17.85 million for a variety of drug interdiction and eradication programs that benefit southern and eastern Kentucky. Through Rogers’ leadership, Operation UNITE, drug enforcement operations in the Daniel Boone National Forest, nation-wide prescription drug monitoring programs, and marijuana eradication efforts by the Kentucky National Guard all received funds this summer during consideration of the FY10 federal budget. “I applaud the House for passing these important funding measures to rid our communities of drugs. As our region continues to tackle the epidemic of drugs, it is comforting to know that Operation UNITE and state and local law enforcement partners will be able to carry on their successful programs and rid our streets of drug pushers while drug users get the help they need,” said Rogers. “The combination of crime investigators, church pastors, educators, and medical professionals has made a tremendous impact on our neighborhoods and has taught our young people of the serious dangers of drugs. Operation UNITE brings hope to our region as its vital work strengthens communities, offers addicts a way out, and encourages families to live drug free.” The following is a summary of the 2010 funding passed by the House of Representatives: $4.45 million for Operation UNITE’s law enforcement operations was included in the FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill which passed on June 18, 2009. One of UNITE’s priorities is creating drug task forces for interdiction, confiscation and undercover operations. $2 million for Operation UNITE to continue its school substance abuse counseling, curriculum development, substance abuse treatment and voucher programs was included in the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill passed on July 24, 2009. UNITE also organizes local citizens’ groups, coordinates drug treatment programs, and works with educators to expand drug awareness programs in local schools in an effort to keep the region drug-free. $7 million for the Hal Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to continue efforts throughout the country to monitor prescription drugs through state-sponsored purchase tracking programs was included in the FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill which passed on June 18, 2009. With the rising numbers of people abusing prescription drugs and selling them illegally, this system operates in 33 states and allows law enforcement and the medical community to effectively monitor drug distribution and diversion. $900,000 for marijuana eradication, methamphetamine lab disruption, and drug enforcement in the Daniel Boone National Forest was included in the FY 2010 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which was approved by the House of Representatives on June 26, 2009. Law enforcement will work to keep this national treasure drug free and safe. $3.5 million for the Kentucky National Guard to continue counter-drug efforts throughout the Commonwealth was included in the FY 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill passed on July 30, 2009. The Kentucky National Guard is a critical part of state-wide drug prevention activities and is working hard to ensure that Kentucky is a better place to live as drugs are taken off the street. T These legislative measures await further action by the U.S. Senate. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.30.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives has approved $500,000 for the Kentucky Blood Center (KBC) to construct a new blood storage and donor service center in Somerset. Rogers secured these critical funds in the FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill to strengthen the available blood supply for emergencies in southern and eastern Kentucky. The bill passed the House on July 23, 2009, and awaits Senate action later this year. “Ensuring that southern and eastern Kentucky is well prepared for emergencies is a top priority of mine and adequate blood supply is at the top of our list of needs,” said Rogers. “This announcement is great news for our efforts to improve our resiliency to an act of terrorism, natural disaster, or an unfortunate accident. Lives have been saved because of the Kentucky Blood Center’s long-standing efforts to meet the demands of any emergency situation and I applaud their tenacity in seeing this project move forward. This new facility builds on KBC’s fine record and improves our region’s ability to respond locally and nationally to the call for blood supply.” According to the American Association of Blood Banks International Task Force on Domestic Disasters, the single greatest risk from a disaster is not a lack of blood, but a disruption of the blood delivery system. The small size of KBC’s current Pulaski County facility has proved insufficient to accommodate the growth in blood donation and staffing in southeast Kentucky. The new blood donor center, slated for construction along US-27 in Somerset, will allow KBC to develop a regional approach in meeting blood donation needs and increase preparedness for a disaster or blood emergency with greater storage capacity. The project has already undergone development and design, and can be under construction within 90 days. The Kentucky Blood Center was founded in 1968 with a mission to save lives by providing blood products of the highest quality to patients in Kentucky in an economically sound manner. Through continuous improvements they strive to maintain their status of a premier blood center by exceeding industry standards and community expectations. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
07.30.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that $750,000 has been designated for the expansion of US-25 near Corbin in the FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representatives on July 23, 2009. The road improvements will ease congestion and improve safety for those traveling on this important highway. “Investments in our nation’s roadways and transportation system are absolutely critical to spurring economic development and creating jobs right here in southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Expanding US-25 is key to solving the problems that plague this stretch of road. We need to be looking to build the physical infrastructure not simply for today, but for the future so our region can compete and our talented young people can find good paying jobs, start innovative businesses, and raise healthy families.” This funding will be utilized by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet in its ongoing efforts to expand US-25 to four lanes in Laurel County near Corbin. This section of US-25 is a major connector between Corbin and London, and currently experiences an average of 13,000-15,000 vehicles travelled daily. Reconstructing US-25 in this area will improve safety and reduce congestion while creating opportunities for business creation and put road contractors to work. This important project is also included in Kentucky’s 2008 Highway Plan, as approved by the 2009 Kentucky General Assembly. Recent studies indicate that highway spending yields a 32% annual return on investments measured over decades, which far exceeds most other public or private investments. Rogers works to provide funding for Kentucky transportation funding in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved federal funding for southern and eastern Kentucky’s educational initiative “Forward in the Fifth.” Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill includes $500,000 to continue the valuable programs offered by Forward in the Fifth. “Reading can mean the difference between a good paying job, career advancement, developing confidence to go back and get a college degree, or simply participating in the democratic process,” said Rogers. “We must continue to offer those who desire to learn opportunities to do so and Forward in the Fifth plays an important role in making these dreams a reality. This highly-regarded region-wide initiative gives educators the teaching tools to help students who are struggling or simply need one-on-one instruction. If we’re to move Kentucky forward, education cannot be overlooked.” Forward in the Fifth, located at the Center for Rural Development, is a nonprofit, grassroots education organization, uniting parents, students, businesses and educators to improve educational success in the Fifth Congressional District. Forward in the Fifth works with the Center for Rural Development’s other affiliates in developing shared educational programs. Begun in 1986, the organization serves 41 Appalachian counties by placing a high priority on literacy education and working to improve school attendance, enhance science and math instruction, train parents in computer-based education platforms, and increase the number of residents attending college. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 24, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved federal funding to continue an important health demonstration in Martin County at the Roy F. Collier Community Center. Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill includes $250,000 to continue this important outreach to battle obesity, diabetes, and weight-related health issues. “The epidemic of obesity and weight-related diseases have adversely affected southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “It is high time we get moving and make smart dietary decisions. Better foods and physical fitness information and coordination will go a long way toward lowering the cost of medical bills and improving the quality of life for families in our region. Morehead State University’s Martin County demonstration continues to provide strategic health resources and will go a long way toward preventing disease and encourage active lifestyles for children and adults.” Morehead State University (MSU) will use the funds to continue the “Martin County on the Move” health outreach demonstration program initiated in 2008. This targeted and comprehensive project works with community leaders, schools and businesses to draw attention to healthy lifestyle choices and combat the region’s high rate of diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. The funds will be used for program development, supplies, health information resources, physician and professional support, and promotional/awareness efforts. To date, Rogers has secured $780,000 in funding for this important initiative. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 24, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved federal funding for arts education at the Mountain Arts Center in Prestonsburg. Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill includes $200,000 for the Center to expand its current arts education curriculum. “Arts education is a terrific opportunity for all in our communities to pursue,” stated Rogers. “The Mountain Arts Center opens the door to so many unique opportunities for our region. From music to art to putting on a play, our community is emboldened through the arts. Creativity is fostered through arts education and goes a long way toward helping our students learn new things and embracing positive activities right here at home.” The funding is directed at the Mountain Arts Center which is a non-profit cultural arts complex based in Prestonsburg. In addition to enabling the Center to expand its curriculum, it will also further expand learning opportunities in eastern Kentucky. The Center hosts a wide variety of arts education classes for all ages in music, art, and theater. The Mountain Arts Center was founded in 1996 and has earned the reputation as one of the best family entertainment venues north of Nashville. The Center has hosted conventions, meetings, receptions, dinners, as well as interactive video conferencing to its many users. Moreover, the Center’s diverse educational programming has been attended by over 200,000 school children throughout the region. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 24, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.29.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the House of Representatives recently approved federal funding for Union College’s new nursing and health program facility. Through Rogers’ efforts, the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill includes $500,000 for Union College to convert the old Knox County Hospital into an academic facility in order to develop a full-fledge nursing program and other allied health programs. “Providing new opportunities for our students is critical in these challenging economic times,” said Rogers. “This funding will allow Union College to offer new health and nursing programs which will greatly increase the educational opportunities readily available for our students and expand the source of trained nurses in our region. Our region needs well qualified health care professionals to help us fight the challenges that we face and I’m glad to see that Union College will help to move our region forward.” The funding will go towards renovating and reconstruction at the old Knox County Hospital so that Union College can turn it into a new nursing, science, and allied health program facility. Union College hopes to use this expansion of academic facilities to establish a Registered Nurse (RN) to Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN) training program. This program will help to alleviate the critical shortage of trained nurses throughout Appalachia and the nation. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 24, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the Office of National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS), has awarded Morehead State University with a $198,768 grant for cancer research. The MSU research will focus on improved cancer prevention and drug treatments. “Nearly every family has been impacted by cancer and the destruction and disruption it brings to the individuals and families coping with this dreaded disease. It knows no geographic or socio-economic boundaries,” stated Rogers. “Aggressive prevention, drug testing, and treatment are key to fighting cancer. With continued research there is hope that one day we will be able to close the door on cancer and prevent the hardships it brings. I am pleased to see researchers and students at MSU take a leading role in this fight. This award is also a reminder that our higher education institutions can compete on a national scale in science and medicine and are doing advanced work to improve the lives of Kentuckians.” Morehead State University researchers will use this funding to study how damaged DNA responds to bacteria in hopes of finding answers to this complex disease. By studying the bacteria and DNA damage, scientists hope to find ways to better prevent and treat cancer. Per capita, Kentucky has one of the highest rates of cancer in the country. This year, according to the American Cancer Society, an estimated 24,060 individuals will be diagnosed with cancer in Kentucky. The mission of NIGMS is to support research that increases understanding of life processes and lays the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. NIGMS-funded researchers seek to answer important scientific questions in a wide variety of fields. NIGMS also provides leadership training in the next generation of scientists and increasing the diversity of the scientific workforce to assure the vitality and continued productivity of the research enterprise. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that $750,000 has been designated for the continued planning and construction along the Somerset Northern Bypass in the FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representatives yesterday. The Northern Bypass is a critical link in the nationally designated Interstate 66 (I-66) project. “In these challenging times, the development of I-66 is absolutely critical to spurring economic development and creating jobs right here in southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “The Northern Bypass is a critical road segment to connect future I-66 to the Louie B. Nunn Parkway and the rest of the Commonwealth. We need to be looking to build the physical infrastructure not simply for today, but for the future so our region can compete and our talented young people can find good paying jobs, start innovative businesses, and raise healthy families.” Since 1998, Rogers has secured over $100 million in targeted federal funding for development of I-66 across Kentucky. Upon completion of this project, I-66 will provide a vital connection between southern and eastern Kentucky and the nationwide road system. This is crucial to providing Appalachian Kentucky residents with better access to health care, opening up communities to tourism, and supporting additional supply lines for new businesses. The highway will also improve safety for people traveling in and around the area. Rogers works to provide funding for Kentucky transportation funding in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has provided $2.75 million for PRIDE to continue its valuable environmental initiatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers secured this important funding to promote environmental volunteerism and education, as well as important water treatment efforts in the region. These funds were approved this summer during consideration of three separate federal appropriations measures. “I applaud Congress for approving this important funding. PRIDE has made a significant difference throughout our region as it cleans up our land and restores our countryside to its natural beauty,” said Rogers. “PRIDE has empowered Kentuckians to value the breathtaking landscape and rid our forest, rivers, and roads of litter and trash. Today in our classrooms, because of PRIDE’s important education programs, our children are taught the value of personal responsibility, conservation, and taking care of the environment that surrounds them. Southern and eastern Kentucky will also benefit from the vital water treatment funding which is part of our ongoing effort to eliminate straight pipes and failing septic systems so that our citizens have access to safe, sanitary water.” PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. To date, PRIDE has recruited more than 287,000 volunteers logging over 1 million volunteer hours, provided 28,089 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up 135,884 tons of trash. Since this program’s inception, Rogers has secured over $195 million for PRIDE and PRIDE-related sewer and water infrastructure projects. The 2010 PRIDE funding passed by the House of Representatives includes: $1 million for stream clean-ups, debris removal, recycling efforts, stream monitoring and habitat improvement initiatives was included in the FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill which passed on June 18, 2009. $1.5 million for water infrastructure projects to be administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in southern and eastern Kentucky was included in the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill which passed on July 17, 2009. $250,000 for environmental education and awareness programs in local schools was included in the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill passed on July 24, 2009. These legislative measures await further action by the U.S. Senate. Through his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.21.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that $685,000 was approved by the House of Representatives last week for continued support of the Southern & Eastern Kentucky Tourism Development Association (SEKTDA). As part of the FY 2010 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill, the funding for SEKTDA will sustain critical tourism-based economic development, training, and promotion. “At every turn, families are looking for less expensive and more convenient closer to home vacation options,” said Rogers. “Because of our coordinated tourism initiative, southern and eastern Kentucky is well poised to draw these would-be visitors to fish our wild rivers, enjoy rich family entertainment at Renfro Valley or the Mountain Arts Center, camp along Buckhorn Lake, or hike Pine Mountain. Our region has an endless number of attractions and SEKTDA is leading the way in promoting these eye-catching and adventure-seeking spots around the world. With these funds, SEKTDA will continue its fine efforts at training up entrepreneurs, building up local tourism coalitions, and keeping visitors coming back to Appalachia.” Over the past five years, Rogers has secured nearly $6 million for SEKTDA. In 2007, the tourism and travel industry contributed over $1.3 billion annually to the region, supporting 20,000 jobs. Statewide, there is a $10.1 billion annual impact from tourism. SEKTDA is a nonprofit organization created in 1987 to promote and coordinate tourism throughout Southern and Eastern Kentucky in an effort to contribute to the economic and cultural growth of the region. SEKTDA, through its 47-county service area, utilizes these funds to train small business operators, community leaders, and entrepreneurs in hospitality, marketing, customer retention, and business plan development. This legislation favorably passed out of the House of Representatives on July 16, 2009 and awaits Senate consideration this summer. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.21.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) awarded a $75,000 grant to the Appalachian Early Childhood Development Center in order to expand their facility and open up their services to more families. “Finding adequate childcare is often a challenge for working families. It can be the difference in taking a better paying job or pursuing a career,” said Rogers. “The Appalachian Early Childhood Development Center gives children the boost they need in their formative years. This federal investment will enhance the Center’s facilities, improve safety and access, and enable the Center to continue to provide young children with the educational building blocks for success in school and in life.” The funds will be used to construct a 600 square foot classroom addition and a handicapped accessible bathroom to the existing early child facility. The additional space will also increase enrollment by 15 children and move Letcher County families off of a waiting list for childcare. Previously, in 2007, the Appalachian Early Childhood Development Center received a $60,000 grant from USDA-RD. The grant was awarded through USDA-RD’s Community Programs which administers programs designed to develop essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. The USDA-RD strives to ensure that facilities like the Appalachian Early Childhood Development Center are readily available to all rural communities. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.15.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $200,000 grant for the Appalachian Artisan Center of Kentucky in Hindman. These funds will be used to provide studio space and equipment for artisans in eastern Kentucky, which in turn will generate an estimated 23 jobs in the region. “Our craftsmanship and artistic abilities are known throughout the world,” stated Rogers. “Landscape paintings of our Appalachian mountains, hand-crafted textiles, and refined woodworking products are show pieces in millions of homes, not to mention our mountain music which fills countless rooms. I’m pleased to see this federal investment by USDA to continue to create the physical space necessary to tap into the talents handed down by generations of Kentuckians.” Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. The Appalachian Artisan Center of Kentucky will use the additional studio space to aide and develop micro-manufacturing ceramic artists in eastern Kentucky and it is estimated that 30 new micro-manufacturing craft businesses will be created from this project. The Center will also provide the mechanisms and support staff necessary to facilitate the sale of crafts produced in the expanded facility. The Appalachian Artisan Center of Kentucky is dedicated to building and strengthening an arts-based economic sector through education, business development and support services for artists. The Artisan Center represents artists from 49 counties of eastern Kentucky and serves as a critical promoter and advocate of Appalachian arts. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $98,900 grant for the Hazard Independent Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Hazard Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “Rehearsed plans, adequate preparation, and coordinated response training are critical steps to ensuring educators in Hazard are equipped to handle rising flood waters, a nearby chemical spill, or the threat of fire,” said Rogers, “This is a wise federal investment toward ensuring our schools have learned the basics for handling an emergency situation and are properly outfitted for whatever Mother Nature throws our direction. I applaud this local investment by the Department of Education as we make impressive strides to improve the learning environment for our children.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $199,000 grant for the Wayne County Empowerment Zone Industrial Development Authority to assist emerging businesses in the area. It is anticipated that this grant will help create approximately 18 jobs throughout Wayne County. “Wayne County is open for business thanks in no small part to the work of the Development Authority,” said Rogers. “This funding will go a long way toward improving our communities and creating an environment where businesses can excel in Monticello and the surrounding communities. As this important project progresses, I am looking forward to seeing the positive effects it has on our region.” Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. Wayne County Empowerment Zone Industrial Development Authority’s funding is provided through the Rural Business Enterprise Grant program which supports rural projects that finance and facilitate development of small and emerging businesses. The Industrial Development Authority will use these funds to recapitalize their existing revolving loan fund and assist in creating jobs through small businesses in the area. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $99,900 grant for the Leslie County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Leslie Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “Rehearsed plans, adequate preparation, and coordinated response training are critical steps to ensuring educators in Leslie County are equipped to handle rising flood waters, a nearby chemical spill, or the threat of fire,” said Rogers, “This is a wise federal investment toward ensuring our schools have learned the basics for handling an emergency situation and are properly outfitted for whatever Mother Nature throws our direction. I applaud this local investment by the Department of Education as we make impressive strides to improve the learning environment for our children.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key committee in the U.S. House of Representatives has approved federal funding for flood control efforts in southern and eastern Kentucky. This week, the House Appropriations Committee passed the FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations bill, which included $9.5 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to protect the region from future flooding. “The devastating impact of the May severe storms and flooding reiterated the need for funding of flood control projects in southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Our families and our communities have been hit hard by the damage and destruction these high waters and rushing water have brought. This is an important step toward our region receiving the funding necessary to guard homes, insulate businesses, channel rivers, and reduce the potential for flood losses throughout the Upper Cumberland and Big Sandy watersheds.” The FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations bill provides $9.5 million for flood control and flood damage reduction activities along the Levisa and Tug forks of the Big Sandy and Cumberland Rivers. This includes funding for construction projects in the Town of Martin, the cities of Cumberland and Middlesboro, the community of Clover Fork, as well as county-wide flood reduction projects in Harlan, Martin, Bell and Pike Counties. Funding will also be made available to continue studies in Floyd, Knox, Johnson and Whitley Counties. Administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with local input, these funds build on over two decades of coordinated planning and construction to flood proof and protect homes and communities throughout southern and eastern Kentucky. This legislation is scheduled to be considered by the full House of Representatives later this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $100,486 grant for the Whitley County Board of Education to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Whitley Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “Rehearsed plans, adequate preparation, and coordinated response training are critical steps to ensuring educators in Whitley County are equipped to handle rising flood waters, a nearby chemical spill, or the threat of fire,” said Rogers, “This is a wise federal investment toward ensuring our schools have learned the basics for handling an emergency situation and are properly outfitted for whatever Mother Nature throws our direction. I applaud this local investment by the Department of Education as we make impressive strides to improve the learning environment for our children.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $750,000 loan through their Intermediary Relending Program for the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC). These funds are targeted to provide low-interest loans for business and community development, which in turn will generate an estimated 50 jobs in the region. “In these challenging economic times there is no one more qualified than Kentucky Highlands to provide loans and technical support to local businesses in southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Whether it is creating jobs, offering technical assistance to entrepreneurs, or developing new business opportunities to hard working families of our region, Kentucky Highlands’ efforts are crucial to improving our communities and creating an environment where businesses can excel. As this important project progresses I am looking forward to seeing the positive effects it has on our region.” Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. The Intermediary Relending Program was created to alleviate poverty and increase economic activity and employment in rural communities. KHIC will use these funds to continue supporting small and medium-sized business through equity investments, lending and technical assistance. In addition, this project will serve 14 counties by investing loan proceeds in community development projects including start-ups and expansions to finance real estate, equipment and working capital needs. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key committee in the U.S. House of Representatives has approved federal funding for flood control efforts in the Town of Martin. This week, the House Appropriations Committee passed the FY 2010 Energy & Water Appropriations bill, which included $9.5 million for flood control and flood damage reduction activities along the Levisa and Tug forks of the Big Sandy and Cumberland Rivers. The legislation requires the Corps to dedicate at least $3 million towards activities in Martin, and directs the Corps to expedite the acquisition of eligible structures impacted by the May 2009 flooding event. “There is no question that the town of Martin is in great need of flood control protection. The May 2009 flooding delivered yet another blow to a community that has been hit hard year after year by the destruction that Mother Nature can bring,” said Rogers. “I remain vigilant in pursuing the necessary funding to complete this critical project and I am pleased to report that we were successful at including a provision which requires the Corps to immediately commence appraisals and title work to buyout structures that were damaged by the recent floods. While many challenges still lay ahead and I know patience is worn thin, this funding is a step in the right direction and will help Martin residents relocate to higher ground, re-establish lives, renew the economy, and restore this vibrant community.” Phase I of the project, construction of the elevated commercial re-development site, is 100% complete. This legislation directs the Corps to expedite the Phase 3 and Phase 4 acquisition of properties that were damaged by the floodwaters in the May 2009 flood event. Approximately 180 commercial and residential structures in the mandatory and voluntary acquisition programs will ultimately be eligible to participate. The Corps is expected to move forward with relevant pre-acquisition activities in the near future, including a landowners meeting, title searches and property appraisals. To date, Rogers has secured nearly $30 million for the flood control project in Martin. This legislation is scheduled to be considered by the full House of Representatives later this summer. Rogers works to obtain federal funding for projects across southern and eastern Kentucky in his role as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $99,803 grant for the Magoffin County Schools to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Magoffin Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “Rehearsed plans, adequate preparation, and coordinated response training are critical steps to ensuring educators in Magoffin County are equipped to handle rising flood waters, a nearby chemical spill, or the threat of fire,” said Rogers, “This is a wise federal investment toward ensuring our schools have learned the basics for handling an emergency situation and are properly outfitted for whatever Mother Nature throws our direction. I applaud this local investment by the Department of Education as we make impressive strides to improve the learning environment for our children.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Department of Education (ED) has approved a $99,000 grant for the Johnson County Schools to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. Johnson Schools received the funding through the ED Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools (REMS) Program. “Rehearsed plans, adequate preparation, and coordinated response training are critical steps to ensuring educators in Johnson County are equipped to handle rising flood waters, a nearby chemical spill, or the threat of fire,” said Rogers, “This is a wise federal investment toward ensuring our schools have learned the basics for handling an emergency situation and are properly outfitted for whatever Mother Nature throws our direction. I applaud this local investment by the Department of Education as we make impressive strides to improve the learning environment for our children.” The purpose of REMS is to enable school districts to develop improved plans that address all four phases of emergency management: prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In reviewing and improving existing emergency plans, school districts are required to work with community partners including, local law enforcement, emergency management, public and mental health agencies, and local government. Plans must include staff training, sustained local partnerships, communication with parents regarding the plan and reunification after an emergency, and ongoing reviews of policies and procedures. In addition to improving existing emergency plans, school districts will conduct vulnerability assessments of schools, provide training, organize exercises and crisis simulation drills, and procure emergency supplies. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
07.09.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $299,000 grant for the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) to help emerging area businesses located in Clinton, Jackson, and Wayne Counties. The first small business expected to receive loan funding from KHIC is a non-profit Federally Qualified Health Clinic located in Burkesville. The loan will help create an estimated 13 new jobs. “Access to top-notch healthcare services is of tremendous importance to improving our communities and attracting future businesses. This clinic plays a critical role in serving our seniors, young children, and hard working families while improving the marketability of our region to the world,” said Rogers. “Kentucky Highlands has once again demonstrated their dedication to the betterment of our region, and I am looking forward to seeing this important project progress, as well as the other small businesses that will benefit from this crucial funding.” Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. KHIC will use the grant to establish a revolving loan fund for small and emerging businesses in Clinton, Jackson, and Wayne Counties. The health clinic in Burkesville offers an extensive range of care and treatment to those in financial and medical need. The funds will allow the clinic to expand so that it can focus on providing front-line, preventative medicine. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.08.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $41,523 grant for the Leslie County Sheriff’s Department to purchase two police vehicles. These funds will allow public safety officials in Leslie County to provide adequate protection and emergency services for the rural population of 12,401. “Our law enforcement officials needs safe, fully-equipped and reliable transportation to respond to emergencies and get to the scene on time,” said Rogers. “I continue to be impressed by the valuable partnerships forged between the USDA and the rural communities in our region of southern and eastern Kentucky, and this investment by USDA-RD will go a long way towards speeding response times and increasing public safety in Leslie County.” The USDA-RD Economic Impact Initiative is funding the purchase of a Ford Police Interceptor vehicle and a Ford Expedition for the Leslie County Sheriff’s Department. In 2008, Leslie County Sheriff’s Department received a similar grant of $18,676 for the purchase of a police car. Economic Impact Initiative Grants are awarded to rural communities that are experiencing economic difficulty. The purpose of the grant is to provide for community needs, such as police vehicles, road maintenance equipment, and municipal buildings. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.08.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key committee in the U.S. House of Representatives has approved funding for the continued rehabilitation of Wolf Creek Dam. On Tuesday evening, the House Appropriations Committee passed the FY10 Energy & Water Appropriations bill, which includes $123 million in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ budget for ongoing improvements and repairs at the dam. “Completing the Wolf Creek Dam project in a safe and timely manner is a top priority so that we can restore economic growth and bring jobs back to the Lake Cumberland area,” said Rogers. “Although I am disappointed by recent delays in shoring up Critical Area 1, I am hopeful these additional funds will keep the overall project moving steadily and safely forward and ensure we’re on track for a timely completion. Many challenges remain but I will continue to work with the Corps to ensure that Kentucky’s crown jewel, Lake Cumberland, is brought back to its original water level so that we can continue to bolster tourism.” The Wolf Creek Dam project is the top dam safety project for the Corps in the nation and in July 2008, the Corps awarded a $341 million joint venture contract to Treviicos-Soletanche JV for the construction of a 4200-foot concrete barrier wall at the dam. Treviicos-Soletanche recently began installation a Protective Concrete Embankment Wall (PCEW), which is the first stage of barrier wall construction and will increase dam safety during the remainder of construction. With passage of this legislation, expected later this summer, over $304 million in federal funding will have been dedicated toward this project. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.08.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has approved a $413,701 grant for the Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) to help emerging area businesses. Specifically, the funds will be used to establish a new health clinic located in Clay County and expansion of an existing clinic in Knox County. “Access to top-notch healthcare services is of tremendous importance to improving our communities and attracting future businesses. These two clinics will play a critical role in serving our seniors, young children, and hard working families while improving the marketability of our region to the world,” said Rogers. “Kentucky Highlands has once again demonstrated their dedication to the betterment of our region, and I am looking forward to seeing these important projects progress.” Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. The Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation (KHIC) will use the funds to establish revolving loan funds which will lend to small and emerging businesses and provide technical assistance. The funds will be used in a 14-county service area; however, the initial recipient is a nonprofit, federally qualified health clinic to be located in Clay County. The clinic will focus on front-line preventative medicine and will initially employ 4 people including a physician, nurse and office manager. A portion of these funds will also be used to expand an existing health clinic in Gray, Kentucky. In addition to the $413,701 grant from USDA-RD, KHIC will be contributing $86,299 which brings the project total to $500,000. KHIC was formed in 1968 to stimulate growth and create employment opportunities in Southeastern Kentucky. KHIC currently serves the following twenty-two counties in Kentucky: Bell, Clay, Clinton, Cumberland, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, Letcher, Lincoln, Madison, McCreary, Owsley, Perry, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, Wayne, and Whitley. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.07.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $199,819 to the Bell-Whitley Community Action Agency in Pineville to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “The Bell-Whitley Head Start Program is well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Bell-Whitley Community Action Agency which is one of more than 1,000 similar agencies in the nation. Organized in 1968 and incorporated in 1969, as part of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 to fight America’s War on Poverty, Bell-Whitley Community Action Agency utilizes all resources available to help others become self-sufficient. In addition to the Head Start program, the Bell-Whitley Community Action Agency provides other services to the community such as weatherization, PRIDE, housing initiatives and Winter Care. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.07.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that individuals in Breathitt, Floyd, Magoffin, Owsley, and Pike counties that were impacted by the May 2009 severe storms and flooding have until July 27, 2009 to register with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in order to be considered for individual assistance. “The damage from this storm was overwhelming and while much progress has been made, there are still many challenges to overcome as we move forward,” said Rogers. “FEMA assistance is crucial to our region’s recovery, so I encourage every citizen, even if they have received federal assistance in the past, to apply before the July 27th deadline.” Individuals seeking reimbursement for disaster related expenses incurred as a result of the May storms and flooding should do so no later than Monday, July 27, 2009. Individuals can register by calling toll-free 800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 800-462-7585 or may register online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. These resources can also be used to ask questions about or check the status of previously filed applications and to find out about appeals. Rogers has worked closely with other members of the Kentucky delegation to bring awareness in Washington D.C. to the severity of the flooding and immediately called for a federal disaster declaration. To date, more than 4,800 Kentuckians have applied for disaster assistance. More than $15.6 million in disaster assistance has been approved, which includes more than $3 million in disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The deadline for disaster loan applications to SBA for disaster-related real and personal property losses is July 28. Information about SBA disaster loan programs is available by calling 800-659-2955, online at www.sba.gov or by e-mailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov.
07.07.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $591,132 to the Big Sandy Area Community Action Program, Inc. in Paintsville to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “Johnson County Head Start is well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Big Sandy Area Community Action Program, Inc. (BSACAP) which provides various services throughout the region, including Head Start. BSACAP is a private, non-profit organization which operates an extensive range of social programs and services targeting low income households in Pike, Martin, Magoffin, Floyd and Johnson Counties. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $39,879 to the Owsley County Board of Education to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “Owsley County Head Start is well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Owsley County Board of Education which provides primary and secondary, as well as Head Start education to Booneville and Owsley County. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Morehead State University was awarded a $449,511 grant for the Educational Opportunity Centers (EOC) Program. The EOC Program is designed to provide information on financial and academic assistance to low-income students who wish to enroll in a postsecondary education program. “Encouraging our young people to perform to their best of their academic abilities, and providing them with the proper resources for such performance, is critical to sustaining and improving our communities,” stated Rogers. “In these challenging economic times, students need every opportunity we can provide them with to give them a solid foundation for the future. By offering vital information on financial aid and academic assistance we are breaking down walls and making higher education an obtainable goal for our children.” The EOC Program is for low-income, potential first-generation college students who are at least 19 years of age. The EOC Program services include; public information campaigns designed to inform the community regarding opportunities for postsecondary education, academic advice for students, assistance in completing college admission and financial aid applications, assistance in preparing for college entrance exams, guidance on secondary school reentry or GED programs, personal counseling, tutorial services, career workshops, mentoring programs and programs for students with limited English proficiency. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $173,924 to the Middle Kentucky Community Action Partnership in Jackson to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “Breathitt County Head Start is well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Middle Kentucky Community Action Partnership, Inc. which provides various services throughout the region, including Head Start. Their Head Start program services 248 children and families in Breathitt, Lee, and Wolfe Counties, as well as 90 children and families in Owsley County. Middle Kentucky Head Start increases a child’s effectiveness in dealing with present and future responsibilities in school and in life. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $544,440 to the Kentucky Communities Economic Opportunity Council in Barbourville to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “Knox County Head Start is well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the Kentucky Communities Economic Opportunity Council (KCEOC). KCEOC is a private, non-profit corporation that runs a variety of community service programs and the federal funds will go towards supplementing Head Start programs and making them more available across the region. KCEOC has a long history of operating Head Start Programs since Head Start was launched in 1965. In addition to Knox County, KCEOC also serves Clay, Harlan, Jackson, Laurel and Rockcastle Counties. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Campton, Ky.-based Appalachian Heritage Alliance (AHA) will receive a $25,000 grant from the National Endowment of the Arts. These funds will be used to support AHA staff, as the organization continues valuable programs such as Arts in Education and Arts in the Community. “Encouraging our communities to get involved in the arts and take pride in their history is critical to building their talents, increasing their confidence and maintaining our rich Appalachian arts heritage,” stated Rogers. “The Appalachian Heritage Alliance has long partnered with the community to provide arts education, Appalachian heritage events and clean up efforts throughout the region. This funding will go a long way toward keeping our Appalachian traditions alive and well.” The Appalachian Heritage Alliance grew out of the Wolfe County Arts Association that was formed in 1989. Located in one of the most economically depressed regions of the United States, AHA optimizes limited resources to provide over 17 art programs and projects to the community. The National Endowment for the Arts is an independent federal agency supporting artists and arts organizations and bringing the arts to all Americans. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
07.06.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $331,501 to the LKLP Community Action Council in Redfox to administer the Head Start program. “Head Start gives children the boost they need in their formative years,” said Rogers. “Leslie, Knott, Letcher and Perry Counties Head Start Programs are well deserving of this grant as they provide new opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By reaching out to our young children and providing them with skills they need to excel at school as they grow older, we are raising healthy, well-educated children who grow up ready to work, raise families and lead our region forward.” Head Start provides comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school. This national initiative also promotes school readiness by enhancing the development of children through educational, health and nutritional services. The funds go to the LKLP Community Action Council, Inc. which is a private, non-profit organization serving the Kentucky counties of Leslie, Knott, Letcher and Perry. It is designed to be a community action service and planning agency, as well as developing the fullest potential of the resources in the four county area. Although the Council’s primary focus is the poor, it seeks to actively and substantially involve all segments of the community in an effort to alleviate the distress of poverty. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
06.26.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement regarding his opposition to President Obama and Speaker Pelosi’s “Cap and Tax” bill which will impose a national energy tax on hard-working Americans: “It is unimaginable that in these challenging economic times President Obama and Speaker Pelosi would push Congress to pass a national energy tax under the guise of environmental stewardship – but today they succeeded in doing just that. I voted against this job-killing ‘Cap-and-Tax’ legislation because every American would have to pay a ‘carbon tax’ for turning on the lights, driving to work or heating their home throughout the winter. Even more disturbing is the fact that one independent analysis suggested 2.3 to 2.7 million jobs would be lost over the next 20 years under Cap and Tax. At a time when 2.9 million Americans have lost their job this year alone, it is irresponsible and unacceptable to support this reckless bill. “Perhaps most egregious is the disproportionate affect of these policies on Kentucky, where more than 95% of our electricity comes from coal. This legislation places an enormous tax on coal-burning companies in an attempt to lower emissions, but the reality is these costs will necessarily be passed onto consumers – costing Kentucky electric consumers an estimated $561 million in 2012. Taking into consideration increased costs of gasoline, diesel, food and goods, some studies show this legislation would cost each Kentucky family an additional $4600 a year when fully implemented. This shouldn’t be a complete surprise as President Obama even said that under ‘Cap and Tax’ utility rates would necessarily skyrocket. In these tough economic times it is a slap in the face for working families in rural America to be expected to pay more for basic needs. “Kentuckians can’t afford this national energy tax, nor do they want it; rather, the people of Kentucky want energy independence. I have always been a proponent of protecting our environment which is why I founded PRIDE and support alternative energy such as clean coal, and nuclear power. I co-sponsored the “All of the Above” Republican energy plan which offers more affordable energy, supports clean coal, creates more jobs here at home and protects the environment by developing our domestic resources and investing in renewable and alternative energy sources. We need a comprehensive energy solution, not a bill that unfairly taxes rural America and sends jobs overseas.”
06.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $3 million for the Rural Domestic Preparedness Consortium (RDPC) hosted at Eastern Kentucky University (EKU). RDPC is a nationwide rural training initiative that enables emergency responders in rural areas to access comprehensive homeland security training programs and fill critical security gaps. EKU serves as the lead institution of a group of colleges across the nation that provides critical training courses for rural first responders and other emergency response stakeholders. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 2892, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. “Providing the tools necessary for our rural first responders to address natural or man-made disasters is a priority,” said Rogers. “No community is immune from the threat of terrorism or potential natural disasters. Right here in Kentucky our communities have been devastated by recent flooding and the January 2009 ice storm. Law enforcement, fire, EMS, emergency volunteer and management services must always be vigilant and prepared to act under any circumstance, at any time. Proper and up-to-date training is key to give our brave first responders all the tools necessary to protect our communities and keep our families safe.” Disaster prevention and response courses in large part developed by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency are ongoing throughout the country and applied for rural first responders. Eastern Kentucky University, East Tennessee State University, Iowa Central Community College, Northwest Arkansas Community College, the University of Findlay, in Ohio and North Carolina Central University are the Consortium’s academic partners, each of which has unique capabilities in rural emergency preparedness training. The Center for Rural Development in Somerset is also an integral partner to the Consortium's rural training initiative. H.R. 2892 has been referred to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
06.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $500,000 to prevent flooding in Martin County. Partnering with the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management, Martin County Fiscal Court will use the funding for a stream improvement and hazard mitigation project to alleviate the severe flooding in the area. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 2892, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. “Last month we saw the devastating affects that flooding has on southern and eastern Kentucky,” said Rogers. “Entire communities were destroyed by this natural disaster. It is of utmost importance to protect our region by taking the necessary steps to prevent flooding and the wreckage it leaves behind. Investing in Martin County today will defend this community from the severe blows that Mother nature can bring.” The Martin County Fiscal Court, through the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management, will use the funding identified under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Predisaster Mitigation Program to reduce flooding concerns along Blacklog Fork and Old Route 40 in Inez. The county intends to widen the channel in key locations and armor eroding banks for the first two stream miles of Blacklog Fork. Roadways and bridges have already been elevated and correction of the drainage problem will alleviate perennial high water concerns in this area. Last night, the House of Representatives approved $500,000 in planning and construction funds toward this $700,000 project. H.R. 2892 has been referred to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
06.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $10 million for the Kentucky-based National Institute for Hometown Security (NIHS). NIHS, with the collaboration of Kentucky universities and colleges, develops next generation security solutions at the behest of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Science & Technology Directorate. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 2892, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. “Terrorism is a real threat and we need advanced research to ensure that our security risks and vulnerabilities are adequately addressed,” said Rogers. “Investing in technology and research is critical to solving the challenges we face today and in the future. Protecting our country from terrorist attacks, preparing and responding to natural disaster, and hardening our infrastructure are all key to keeping America safe. Right here in Kentucky, NIHS and our renowned universities, are conducting this vital and important research.” The non-profit NIHS performs a critical, partnering role with the Science and Technology Directorate of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The Directorate identifies the nation’s security technology needs, and NIHS works with Kentucky’s academic community to develop and commercialize solutions for use in the private sector. The Kentucky Homeland Security University Consortium, founded in 2004 along with NIHS, provides the research assets for this initiative. Consortium members are Eastern Kentucky University, the Kentucky Community and Technical College System, Kentucky State University, Morehead State University, Murray State University, Northern Kentucky University, the University of Kentucky, the University of Louisville and Western Kentucky University. Broadening the outreach to the statewide academic community, members of the Association of Independent Kentucky Colleges and Universities work with the consortium. H.R. 2892 has been referred to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Fifth Congressional District.
06.25.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the House of Representatives has approved $500,000 toward planning and construction of an addition to the Kentucky Emergency Operations Center (KEOC), operated by the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management. Rogers secured this funding in H.R. 2892, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. “Kentucky has been hit hard by natural disasters. This year alone the ice storm impacted 103 counties in Kentucky and left thousands without power, shelter and protection. Last month, southern and eastern Kentucky was devastated by torrential floods and many still do not have a permanent home,” said Rogers. “It is imperative that we properly equip and centrally locate the Kentucky Emergency Operations Center to enable quick and coordinated response to a natural or man made disaster. If you do not have a scalable headquarters to handle a statewide crisis, you cannot properly adjust to the challenges we face and this funding gets the ball rolling on an operations center the Commonwealth needs.” The $500,000 allocated to the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management will be used to assist with the planning and construction of a 7,126 square foot building addition to the existing KEOC which was built in 1975. Currently, the emergency operations staff is scattered across Frankfort in three different locations and during a disaster, FEMA and other local, state, and federal partner agencies have no space in the existing buildings to coordinate with the KEOC. The KEOC serves as Kentucky’s primary in-state operations response center for coordination during an emergency. H.R. 2892 has been referred to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Through his role as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Rogers supports important initiatives for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
06.24.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) will invest $420,000 to expand water, sewer and electrical infrastructure at the Rockcastle Industrial Park South. This federal investment is designed to enhance this Mount Vernon facility, create new jobs, and spur private investment at the industrial park. “EDA continues to be a vital partner in developing the infrastructure essential to creating jobs in our region,” stated Rogers, “At such a time as this, we need to be pressing forward, putting our diligent men and women to work, and seeking out business prospects rather than waiting for good things to happen. The Rockcastle County Industrial Development Authority has long been ahead of the curve in pursuing opportunity to attract and grow businesses and I applaud their work in attracting and leveraging this EDA grant.” Housed within the U.S. Department of Commerce, EDA awarded this grant to the Rockcastle County Industrial Development Authority and has long been a critical partner to economic development in southern and eastern Kentucky. According to EDA, the impact of this investment is estimated to be 159 new jobs, retain 91 jobs and leverage $5.3 million in private investments. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to provide funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional district.
06.22.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service awarded the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources with $124,469. Lake Cumberland will benefit from a portion of the funds by purchasing a sewage pumpout boat. “Whether it is bass fishing, grilling on the houseboat, irrigating nearby family farms, or tubing behind a ski boat, Lake Cumberland is the crown jewel of our region. This award from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is important to keep the lake clean and the water healthy for all to enjoy,” said Rogers. “Clean water is vital to promote tourism and spur economic development. This funding is key to maintaining the natural beauty of the region as well as provide healthy drinking water to the communities around the lake.” The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services announced that this funding was made available through the 2009 Clean Vessel Act Grant Program of 2009, which helps state agencies and private marinas with the construction, renovation, operation, and maintenance of pumpout stations and waste reception facilities for recreational boaters. The grants are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis and can constitute up to 75% of all approved project costs. Sewage pumpout boats make the sewage collection process more efficient and convenient and has an immediate and clear impact on the well-being of aquatic resources and recreational waterways that provide drinking water to millions of Americans. This conservation tool will benefit Lake Cumberland and the region around it. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
06.19.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Forest Service has awarded $3,696,700 toward numerous improvement projects in the Daniel Boone National Forest (DBNF) including debris removal for trail and road restoration, forest thinning to resist the Gypsy Moth, stream and ecosystem monitoring, and dump clean ups with Kentucky PRIDE. The forest improvement projects are a part of USFS efforts to address deferred maintenance, reduce the threat of wildfire and invasive species, and improve overall forest health. “The Daniel Boone stretches across our region and these sound investments will ensure the forest can continue to serve as a natural and economic resource for our people,” said Rogers. “I’m pleased to see the Forest Service partner with PRIDE toward cleaning up our streams and improving the landscape. Illegal dumps not only burden the land, but toxins can get into our waterways and affect the water we drink and our ability to attract future businesses to southern and eastern Kentucky. Furthermore, clearing and cutting roads and reducing the wildfire threat in the Daniel Boone will put our men and women to work and increase the safety of homeowners in or near the forest.” Daniel Boone National Forest Projects: Kentucky Ice Storm Trails and Roads Restoration Project: $558,200 allocated for removal of debris and trees that are blocking roads and trails as a result of the January 2009 ice storm. Fuels for Forest Health Project: $1,145,000 allocated for thinning portions of the forest to resist Gypsy Moth attacks and reducing hazardous fuels to prevent destructive wildfires. Invasive Species Treatment Project: $343,500 allocated for the removal of invasive plant species which have disrupted the forest canopy. Kentucky Dump Site Clean-up Project: $500,000 allocated for working with PRIDE to clean up illegal dumping sites throughout the Daniel Boone National Forest. Aquatic Monitoring Near Roads and Trails Project: $240,000 allocated for monitoring streams near roads and trails to determine the impact on endangered mussel species. Kentucky Road Maintenance Project: $910,000 allocated for improving road safety and protecting aquatic wildlife near the roads. These projects will occur across the 700,000 acre Daniel Boone National Forest and in the counties of Bath, Clay, Estill, Harlan, Jackson, Knox, Laurel, Lee, Leslie, McCreary, Menifee, Morgan, Owsley, Perry, Powell, Pulaski, Rowan, Rockcastle, Wayne, Whitley, and Wolfe. The funding for the above projects will help those communities impacted by the economic downturn and, as a result, create jobs that support the Forest Service’s mission of sustaining the health, diversity, and productivity of the Nation’s forests and grasslands. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
06.18.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA-RD) program has awarded a $1.04 million grant and loan package to South Kentucky Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation (SKRECC) to construct a network operations building at The Center for Rural Development. The network operations center (NOC) will improve and secure broadband services to the Valley Oak Technology Park, the Kentucky Community and Technical College System, and future customers. The facility will ensure adequate data storage and service is available to regional businesses and data-dependent institutions. “To deliver high speed Internet services for tomorrow’s jobs, you need a top-notch broadband backbone. The NOC is a critical piece to building that long-term architecture,” said Rogers. “This federal investment creates immediate jobs while laying the ground work for new businesses, on-line job training and webcasting, and new high-tech careers. We no longer compete for jobs in neighboring counties, but around the world and the Internet provides an invaluable tool toward marketing our region’s rich manufacturing skills, technology services, and future capabilities. South Kentucky RECC is a model community leader and I applaud their continued partnership with the Center for Rural Development.” USDA Rural Development funds are used to provide loans and grants to rural programs that will provide economic development. An additional contribution from SKRECC of $60,000, along with a $148,000 contribution from the Center for Rural Development brings project funding to $1,248,000. This project is expected to create 5 permanent full-time jobs and save 12 existing jobs over a three-year period. The network operations center, currently operational at Valley Oak, will be moved to the Center for Rural Development and safely house and monitor servers for data-intensive customers. SKRECC was created in 1938 to provide electricity and related services to its members at a competitive price and to improve the quality of life in the communities of its service area. The cooperative’s Office of Community Development was established to further this goal. The Center for Rural Development is a non-profit corporation in Somerset, Kentucky that aims to improve the quality of life in 42 economically distressed counties in southern and eastern Kentucky. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.17.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will award an airport improvement grant to the West Liberty Airport. The $21,866 grant will fund the completion of safety improvements being made to the airport’s apron. “This grant allows the West Liberty Airport to make necessary improvements which is an important step to open up Morgan County and the surrounding communities to additional transportation options as the airport continues to expand,” said Rogers. “In these challenging economic times, I am delighted to see the federal government get behind our smaller general aviation airports, which serve as critical job creators and are instrumental in attracting businesses to invest in our region.” With these funds, the airport will be able to bring the apron, the area in which planes are loaded, unloaded and maintained, up to the most current FAA standards. The airport experiences roughly 50 aircraft operations per week. Grants are awarded through the FAA, a division of the U.S. Department of Transportation responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important initiatives in the fifth Congressional District.
06.17.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that U.S. Department of Transportation funds are slated for improvements at the Morehead-Rowan County Clyde A. Thomas Regional Airport. The $182,292 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant will fund the second phase of installation for a new fuel farm, which lessens the need for regular deliveries of fuel. “This grant allows the Clyde A. Thomas Regional Airport to make a necessary addition which is an important step to open up Rowan County and the surrounding communities to additional transportation options as the airport continues to expand,” said Rogers. “In these challenging economic times, I am delighted to see the federal government get behind our smaller airports and enhance their ability to provide a critical link in our region’s transportation system. The Department of Transportation has recognized both our hard work as a community and is rightly interested in future air service to this region.” Since 2001, Rogers has secured over $5 million in federal funding for Morehead-Rowan County Airport, including funds for a soon-to-be constructed access road. This recent grant is vital for the creation of a fuel farm, which stores the necessary fuel for aircraft on site and helps to improve air quality and roadway safety by eliminating the need for regular deliveries of fuel. Grants are awarded through the FAA, a division of the U.S. Department of Transportation responsible for the safety of civil aviation. The FAA’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants for the planning and development of public-use airports, including improvements related to enhancing airport safety, capacity, security, and environmental concerns. For small primary, reliever and general aviation airports, such as those in Southeastern Kentucky, the grant covers 95 percent of eligible costs. As a senior member of the House appropriations committee, Rogers works to secure funding for important projects in the fifth Congressional district.
06.16.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that Letcher County Public Schools has been awarded a Department of Education grant totaling $332,297 through the Literacy and School Libraries Program. This grant will provide over 1,000 students with programs and resources to improve reading skills and overall achievement in the classroom. “Encouraging our young people to perform to their best of their academic abilities, and providing them with the proper resources for such performance, is critical to sustaining and improving our communities,” stated Rogers. “In these challenging economic times, our children need every opportunity we can provide them with to give them a solid foundation for the future. By improving our libraries, utilizing new technology and providing our teachers with more resources, we are giving our children and grandchildren what they deserve, a chance to learn and achieve in the classroom.” Letcher County Public Schools received the grant in order to provide students with increased access to up-to-date school library materials, a well-equipped technologically advanced school library media center, and well-trained, professionally certified school library media specialist to improve literacy skills and achievement of students. Libraries at Letcher Elementary, Fleming Neon Elementary, and West Whitesburg Elementary will be targeted sites for enhancing student reading, literacy, and critical thinking skills, while forging strong collaborations between all teachers and certified librarians. The goal is to better prepare all school students to meet current grade level expectations and provide students and their families with access to community-supported reading enrichment activities at the school libraries before and after school, on the weekends, and during the summer. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.16.2009	U.S. Rep. Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that $11,668,229 in federal funding has been set aside to increase preparedness, reduce threats, and improve emergency response across the Commonwealth of Kentucky. This funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will boost a variety of capabilities for first responders at the state and local level. “Federal funding is critical to ensuring all communities big and small are meeting national preparedness goals and reducing potential security vulnerabilities within the Commonwealth,” said Rogers. “We must continue to make wise investments in upgrading communications equipment, training our first responders, and hardening potential targets. Disasters, whether manmade or the work of nature, are indiscriminate and will often seek the path of least resistance; therefore, we must give our police, fire and emergency response personnel the tools and training necessary to stay ahead and on top.” After receiving applications from the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security, DHS has reviewed the applications and will release funds in the following amounts through a variety of formula grant programs including: the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP), $8,593,000; the Metropolitan Medical Response System, $642,442; the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), $2,201,800; and Citizens Corps, $230,487. For seven years, Rogers has served as the lead Republican on the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Homeland Security. The Subcommittee is charged with allocating resources toward these important grant programs. In fiscal year 2009, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will award more than $3 billion in grants to states, urban areas and transportation authorities under 14 programs to bolster national preparedness capabilities and protect critical infrastructure. As a senior member of the Committee, Rogers works to secure funding to increase the nation’s preparedness and for important homeland security initiatives in Kentucky.
06.15.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) is encouraging local fire departments throughout southern and eastern Kentucky to apply for a new competitive grant program to assist in firehouse construction and renovation. Through the Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction Grants (SCG) within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), this grant program will provide financial assistance directly to fire departments to build or modify existing fire stations. These enhancements will improve response capability and protect the community they serve from fire and fire-related hazards. “Times are tough and local government budgets are tight, but this is one of the few opportunities our rural fire fighters throughout Kentucky have this year to update and repair their firehouses,” said Rogers. “Firefighters are our first responders to the scene of a car accident, wildfire, or chemical spill, and adequate fire facilities improve morale and encourage others to volunteer and serve our region. I want to encourage all of our fire chiefs to try and take full advantage of this unique opportunity.” An application and information about the fire grant program may be obtained by visiting the DHS website at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/afscg/. Information and assistance can also be obtained by calling 1.866-274-0960 or email firegrants@dhs.gov. The deadline for submitting application materials is Friday, July 10, 2009 at 5:00 PM EST. Rogers works to provide funding for important firefighter grant programs in his role as a senior member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
06.12.2009	U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that through his efforts, instead of the standard 75%, FEMA will reimburse the Commonwealth of Kentucky for 90% of Public Assistance costs and 100% of essential assistance and debris removal costs for those affected by the May 2009 severe storms. These significant increases will take the cost burden off of state and local governments and accelerate the rebuilding process at little to no cost to the community. Provisions authored by Rogers waiving the current federal cost-share requirements have been included in the pending FY09 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, which is expected to be considered by the Congress next week: “Hello, this is Congressman Hal Rogers. “I am proud to announce that in my continuing efforts to bring relief to those devastated by the severe storms last month. I have succeeded in inserting in a pending bill provisions which will greatly increase the federal share of the costs of flood relief in Eastern Kentucky well above that contained in President Obama’s original disaster declaration. These provisions will require FEMA to increase the federal share of public assistance to 90%, instead of 75%. This will help our communities speed up road repairs, school rebuilding, courthouse fixes, and other public facility improvements. “Further, and perhaps more importantly, FEMA will now completely cover the costs, 100%, for essential assistance and debris removal on public and private property, instead of 75%. This means that the federal government will pay 100% of help to individuals expenses to address immediate threats to life and property, such as the costs of search and rescue activities, emergency medical care, supplies, and temporary shelter, will all be covered. This congressional action is an enormous win for our region and our people who have suffered greatly this year. “I’ve been through many of the counties myself to see and survey the damage and have pleaded and pushed state and federal officials to move as quickly as possible toward helping families get back on their feet and piece together their lives. Today, I’m pleased to have worked with my colleagues in Congress to unlock additional federal funds that put us further down the road to recovery. “This is Congressman Hal Rogers. You have my pledge to continue to work on these important issues and see our communities restored.” Click here to hear Rep Rogers’ Statement
06.12.2009	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that through his efforts, instead of the standard 75%, FEMA will reimburse the Commonwealth of Kentucky for 90% of Public Assistance costs and 100% of essential assistance and debris removal costs for those affected by the May 2009 severe storms. These significant increases will take the cost burden off of state and local governments and accelerate the rebuilding process at little to no cost to the community. Provisions authored by Rogers waiving the current federal cost-share requirements have been included in the pending FY09 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, which is expected to be considered by the Congress next week. “Between the devastating winter ice storm, the monstrous rainstorm that flooded homes and hollers, and now with yesterday’s most recent flooding that continues to plague our region, Kentucky continues to be ransacked by devastation and overwhelmed by the expense. These provisions increase the federal share and get more money flowing to repair and restoration projects more quickly,” said Rogers. “Our counties are already strapped thin and a higher federal share will ease the burden facing our Commonwealth. I’m pleased to see that my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee recognized this tremendous need and the true emergency facing our people. There are many challenges to overcome as we move forward, but this is a huge step in the right direction as we begin to rebuild and continue to respond to Mother Nature’s wrath.” “After the provision was agreed to, other extraneous items unrelated to our war efforts and emergency relief for natural disasters were added to the bill and are complicating its passage in the House of Representatives. Among these extraneous items is a U.S. Taxpayer bailout of foreign governments to the tune of $108 billion which dwarfs the amount included for our own troops that are bravely serving overseas in Afghanistan and Iraq. I remain steadfastly opposed to any additional bailouts- especially bailouts that could conceivably go to countries that exploit terrorism like Iran and Lebanon. Shortchanging the troops and bailing out foreign governments and potentially terrorist states, is not something I can support. I remain hopeful that these objectionable provisions can be addressed so that my concerns and the apprehension of many others can be satisfied.” Background on the FEMA Cost Share Provisions: Previously, under President Obama’s May 29, 2009 disaster declaration, FEMA was authorized to reimburse only 75% of expenses covered under Public Assistance categories. Now, because of the change spearheaded by Rogers, FEMA is required to reimburse 90% of the total costs incurred, which significantly lessens the financial burdens on state and local governments. Public assistance covers any repairs, restoration or replacement of damaged public facilities, such as schools, courthouses, and police stations. This provision will also reimburse 90% of the state’s costs for deploying the National Guard, and reimbursement of wages and overtime costs of public employees who spent countless hours helping their fellow citizens. 22 counties across the Commonwealth are eligible for Public Assistance. Similarly, essential assistance and debris removal categories were also only originally covered at a 75% cost-share by FEMA. Because of the provisions authored by Rogers, these costs will now be reimbursed fully by the federal government, at 100%. Essential assistance covers a wide range of services and addresses issues that threatened life and property immediately after the storm, including costs incurred from search and rescue efforts, emergency medical care, supplies, temporary shelters, and public health and safety announcements. Debris removal covers expenses related to the removal of wreckage left behind from the disaster on public and private lands, roads, and waterways. These provisions come on top of the 100% reimbursement rates for individual assistance claims already announced by President Obama. Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1841-DR.
06.12.2009	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) offered a three-pronged amendment in the Homeland Security FY 2010 Full Committee Mark Up that will add a vital requirement for a detailed, individualized threat assessment of each Guantanamo Bay detainee, add detainees to the “No Fly List”, and prohibit detainees from being granted a legal immigration status. The amendment passed 34-24. “I am pleased that this amendment passed the committee today. It is without question that any plan for closing Guantanamo Bay must include a detailed threat assessment for each and every detainee,” said Rogers. “We cannot ask the American people to endure such risks when the threat is not even known or made clear to Congress. Even more infuriating is that despite the raging debate on this issue across the Capitol, the Administration is thumbing its nose at our concerns and moving forward with the transfer of these terrorists. Now is not the time for political games, the American people deserve to know the threat that these individuals pose to their families’ safety and well-being. Finally, the amendment I offered will add these detainees to the “No Fly List.” and restrict them from receiving immigration benefit programs. Commonsense would tell you that under no circumstances should detainees be moved to the front of the line whether that be to board an aircraft or obtaining legal status within our borders.” Rogers’ amendment will complement the work the Appropriations Committee has already done on requiring a plan for the proposed disposition of each detainee prior to each transfer by adding a vital requirement for a detailed, individualized threat assessment of each detainee. It will also require that the names of all the Guantanamo detainees are placed on the No Fly list- a requirement that the entire House supported last week during the consideration of the TSA Authorization Bill. Finally, the amendment will make clear that these terrorists should not be granted any favorable immigration treatment and prohibit CIS from granting any immigration benefit or legal immigration status to detainees. This measure will close any legal loopholes that could result in a detainee from walking out of the courtroom. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Rogers has championed efforts to secure the nation’s borders while also maintaining legitimate travel and trade. Such efforts include: record funding for the border fence, doubling the size of the Border Patrol, modernizing our Nation’s ports of entry, and providing assistance to States and localities to help enforce immigration laws. Rogers has also pushed the Department towards the use of cost-effective technology, enhancement of intelligence resources, and application of risked-based solutions.
06.11.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key subcommittee has approved $500,000 to support the Perry County Sanitation District’s ongoing efforts to provide sanitary wastewater treatment services for residents in the Chavies area. This funding will support the Sanitation District in developing a 150,000 gallon per day wastewater treatment plant and an enhanced collection system, which will ultimately serve 502 households. The funding was included in the FY10 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill and will provide residents of rural Perry County with much-needed sanitary wastewater treatment services. Congress is expected to vote on this legislation in late June. “Expanding our water system infrastructure is a critical step toward improving our environment, increasing public health, and growing our local economy,” stated Rogers. “This facility will greatly enhance the water quality in the region and make Perry County an even more desirable place to live and work, as well as create a sizable number of construction and maintenance jobs. I’m pleased to see this funding move forward in the process and will continue to keep a watchful eye on this project.” The project will initially construct approximately 24,900 feet of gravity sewer, 3,500 feet of force main and two pump stations to serve 109 new customers. The wastewater treatment plant will be constructed to accommodate future expansions as collection lines are extended to serve additional customers. The Perry County Sanitation District received a grant from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the design of the Wastewater Treatment Plant and Collection System, which covered the cost of a regional facilities plan, environmental assessment and design. An additional $1.154 million in Environmental Protection Agency funds have also been secured to begin construction. Throughout his tenure in the U.S. Congress, Rogers has worked to secure funding for water improvement projects throughout the fifth congressional district. In 1997, Rogers founded Eastern Kentucky PRIDE to promote Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties. PRIDE unites citizens with the resources of federal, state and local governments to improve water quality in the region, clean up illegal trash and solid waste that would pollute local rivers and streams, and promote environmental awareness and education in our communities. “PRIDE has united people around our region to alleviate major concerns about access to safe drinking water and damage to the environment,” said Rogers. “The many individuals affiliated with organizations such as PRIDE have invested incredible time, talent and resources into the betterment of southern and eastern Kentucky, and their continued support and dedication to our area will ensure that the quality of life for families in our region will continue to rise.” Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.11.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key committee in the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $1 million for PRIDE to continue its valuable environmental initiatives in southern and eastern Kentucky. This legislation is expected to be voted on by Congress next week. “Since its inception in 1997, I have witnessed firsthand the incalculable role of PRIDE in restoring our great land to its natural beauty. Just as important as ridding our forests, streams and roadways of litter and debris, the PRIDE program has inspired a younger generation of Kentuckians to value their surroundings and empowered them to take responsibility for the future of our region,” stated Rogers. “Kids in our communities are developing wetlands, constructing greenhouses, developing nature walks, and monitoring pollution. These funds are critical to continuing these efforts and equip teachers to lead inside and outside the classroom.” PRIDE, which promotes Personal Responsibility in a Desirable Environment in 38 counties, was launched by Rogers and the late General James Bickford, former Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. To date, PRIDE has recruited more than 287,000 volunteers logging over 1 million volunteer hours, provided 28,089 homes with access to sanitary wastewater treatment, and cleaned up 135,884 tons of trash. Since this program’s inception, Rogers has secured over $195 million for PRIDE and PRIDE-related sewer and water infrastructure projects. These funds are included in the FY10 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on June 9, 2009. The bill is slated to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.11.2009	U.S. Representatives Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Ed-Whitfield (KY-01) introduced legislation today to help marina operators in the Lake Cumberland region whose operations have been hurt by lower water levels at the popular tourist site. Lake levels have been lowered to accommodate emergency repairs at Wolf Creek Dam. “Scenic Lake Cumberland has been the hub of economic development in our area of southern Kentucky for years,” said Congressman Rogers. “Many marinas have had to incur tremendous expenses to accommodate the lower pool, such as relocation and investments in additional infrastructure, and these unanticipated expenses have significantly disrupted their cash flow. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has been tasked and is hard at work with correcting structural issues with the dam, and Congress has diligently provided vital funds for the continuation of this project. I have no argument with this work or the funding. However, insufficient relief has been made available to those who have tied their livelihoods to this lake and who, through no fault of their own, are enduring a government-induced hardship. The bill introduced today will correct this and provide some measure of relief to the hardworking small business owners scattered along beautiful Lake Cumberland.” “Lake Cumberland is a vibrant part of the Kentucky culture and a vital part of the local economies surrounding the lake,” Whitfield said. “During tough financial times, we need to do all that we can to protect small businesses and help spur economic growth. This legislation will help safeguard the critical tourism industry in the Lake Cumberland region, ensuring a bright and prosperous future for the entire region.” Rogers and Whitfield introduced H.R. 2821, legislation to assist counties and marinas adversely affected by the Wolf Creek Dam rehabilitation project. The bill would suspend lease payments for marina owners on Lake Cumberland until higher water levels are restored and reimburse these businesses for losses in revenue, costs of relocating on Lake Cumberland and interest payments on loans undertaken as a result of the project. To ensure county governments surrounding Lake Cumberland do not lose funding they otherwise would have received from marina lease payments, the legislation directs the Corps of Engineers to reimburse the counties for lost revenue. Rehabilitation of Wolf Creek Dam has been underway for several years to ensure the safety and health of residents living in the Dam’s surrounding communities. However, this rehabilitation has resulted in lower water levels on Lake Cumberland which has adversely affected tourism and recreation at the popular lake. The legislation introduced today by Rogers and Whitfield will help marina operators in the area maintain their operations, aiding the local economy and helping to ensure tourism in the area continues to thrive. Often referred to as the “Houseboat Capitol of the World,” Lake Cumberland has been the hub of economic development in the region for many years. An estimated 4 million visitors travel to Lake Cumberland every year to take advantage of the lake’s many attractions, including world class bass fishing and boating. Visitors contribute $70 million annually to the local economy, benefitting a wide array of businesses in the surrounding counties.
06.11.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that another $500,000 in federal funding has been designated for the acquisition of the Fern Lake watershed for inclusion in Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. These funds are included in the FY10 Interior Department spending bill, which has been approved by a key congressional subcommittee. “The acquisition of Fern Lake and the surrounding watershed has long been a priority of mine, and I’m pleased to see the cooperation of local and federal officials, as well as the fine contribution of the Trust for Public Lands, to expand this historical national park,” said Rogers. “Fern Lake is a prime example of pairing economic development with protecting our environment and heritage. Not only will this funding increase tourism and expand recreation options for visitors to Cumberland Gap, but this initiative preserves the lake resources and ensures a clean water supply for the citizens of Middlesboro.” Senator Mitch McConnell and Congressman Rogers sponsored the Fern Lake Conservation and Recreation Act, enacted in 2004, which authorized the National Park Service to expand the boundary of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park to incorporate the lake and 4,500 acres in its watershed. Since 2005, McConnell and Rogers have secured $4.95 million for this important acquisition, which protects the drinking water supply for the residents Middlesboro, preserves Appalachia’s historic passageway to the west for future generations, and promotes tourism and economic development in surrounding counties. In December 2008, the Trust for Public Land (TPL), a non-profit conservation organization, purchased a key tract of land surrounding Fern Lake from a private landowner, and in a May 28, 2009 ceremony, with the funds secured by McConnell and Rogers, TPL conveyed over 2,000 acres of this property to Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. To date, 4,021 acres of the watershed have been added to the park, and the ultimate goal is to acquire 4,500 acres within the sightline of the park’s popular Pinnacle Overlook. Rogers currently serves as a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. Through this role, Rogers supports important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.10.2009	Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced today that a key committee in the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $4.45 million for Operation UNITE to continue its flourishing counter-drug initiative in southern and eastern Kentucky. UNITE employs a successful multi-pronged strategy to tackle the scourge of drug abuse throughout the region using cooperative law enforcement efforts, treatment, and education. “Operation UNITE’s innovative tactics have received accolades at the local, state and national level, and Congress’ continued endorsement of this successful program is an indication that we are well-poised to continue the fight against drugs,” said Rogers. “Our community has come together like never before, and the numbers speak for themselves. By uniting the manpower and resources of law enforcement officers, citizen groups and medical professionals and educating our young people on the serious dangers of drug use, Operation UNITE is truly making a difference in the battle against drugs.” Operation UNITE, which stands for Unlawful Narcotics Investigations, Treatment and Education, serves 29 counties in southern and eastern Kentucky. The region-wide program has three main tasks: creating regional drug task forces for interdiction, confiscation and undercover operations; organizing local citizens’ groups and coordinating drug treatment programs; and working with educators to expand drug awareness and education programs in local schools. With this funding, Rogers has directed over $50 million for UNITE related activities over the last 8 years. To date, UNITE detectives have removed over $8.6 million worth of drugs off the street, including more than 86,000 prescription pills, more than 23 pounds of cocaine, over 450 pounds of processed marijuana and over 11.6 pounds of methamphetamine. Their efforts have led to the arrests of more than 3,000 drug dealers and a 96.8% conviction rate. Operation UNITE also provides non-violent offenders and those grappling with addiction with a second chance—over 2,000 people have participated in UNITE drug court programs, and more than 1,400 individuals have received vouchers for treatment. Finally, Operation UNITE continues to educate our youth about the dangers of drug abuse; to date, 64,595 counseling sessions have taken place with UNITE substance abuse counselors. For more information on UNITE, visit www.operationunite.org or call 866-678-6483. The funds are included in the FY10 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on June 9, 2009. The bill is slated to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week. Rogers works to secure valuable funding for important initiatives in the Fifth Congressional District.
06.10.2009	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) released the following statement after House Republicans introduced a comprehensive energy solutions plan entitled “The American Energy Act”: “Gas prices are rising. Utility rates are going up. And yet, in these challenging economic times, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Obama are proposing a bill that will dramatically increase energy prices for hard-working families. This so-called ‘Cap and Trade’ bill that the liberals in Congress are trying to push through Congress would tax you every time you turn on the lights. The President was quoted as saying that energy prices would ‘necessarily skyrocket’ and many experts estimate that millions of jobs will be lost because of this proposed tax. “As you know, I have been a strong advocate for the environment and have created PRIDE to help keep our region beautiful. There is no doubt that we need a plan to keep our environment safe, but for the sake of economic security, we also need a plan that offers reasonable solutions and keeps jobs at home, instead of sending them overseas. That is why I am proud to support the American Energy Act, a Republican energy solution that offers more affordable energy, more jobs here at home, and a cleaner environment. The Republican plan will increase America’s energy supply through an ‘all of the above’ approach, while the Democrat plan seeks to lower energy demand through government control and high taxes. Kentuckians deserve a comprehensive approach that considers all options to our emerging energy crisis; they should not be punished for turning on the lights.” The American Energy Act is centered on domestic production of natural resources and is committed to safe and emissions-free nuclear energy. According to the Department of Energy, the safest and most efficient way for utility companies to control carbon emissions is to increase their supply of nuclear energy. The Republican plan has a national goal of licensing 100 new nuclear reactors over the next twenty years by streamlining a burdensome regulatory process and ensuring the recycling and safe storage of spent nuclear fuel. Also, the plan will increase domestic supply by lifting restrictions on the Artic Coastal Plain, the Outer Continental Shelf, and oil shale in the Mountain West. Revenues generated through domestic productions will support innovation in renewable and alternative energy sources, like wind, solar and clean coal technologies.
06.09.2009	Today, U.S. Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) announced that the President’s federal disaster declaration of May 29, 2009 has been amended to include FEMA Individual Assistance for residents of Magoffin County. The initial federal disaster declaration was in response to the devastating flash floods, tornadoes, mudslides, and severe storms across Kentucky beginning on May 3, 2009. This amended declaration will enable Magoffin County residents to apply for rental assistance, home repairs, and other emergency aid. “This is sorely needed relief and good news for Magoffin County families,” stated Rogers. “The damages from this recent spate of storms have simply been overwhelming. Magoffin County and our whole region face significant challenges in putting communities and homes back together, but this designation will give homeowners in this community some assurance that help is on the way. I can’t stress enough how important it is for families to register for disaster assistance as soon as possible.” With this modified declaration, 5 counties have been designated for 100% Individual Assistance. Individuals and local governments claiming a storm-related loss and seeking assistance from storm damages should contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at (800) 621-3362 or TTY (800) 462-7585 for persons with speech or hearing disabilities. Additional information about this disaster and required forms to apply for assistance are available at http://www.disasterassistance.gov/. In order to apply for individual assistance, an applicant should have on hand his/her social security number, current and pre-disaster address, telephone number to be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, bank routing and account numbers, and a description of losses that were caused by the disaster. The disaster declaration number is FEMA-1841-DR.
06.09.2009	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) relayed important information to those individuals who have been displaced by the severe storms: “Hello, this is Congressman Hal Rogers. “I would like to take a moment to share some good news with all those impacted by the devastating floods. It’s been one week since the President issued a federal disaster declaration. In that time, over six million dollars in federal disaster assistance has been approved. Nearly all of that money has been distributed. “I also requested help from the Tide detergent company so that families displaced would have an opportunity to do some much-needed laundry. Thanks to Tide and Proctor and Gamble, I’m pleased to announce that Tide delivered 260 cases of laundry detergent and it is being handed out at God’s Pantry locations in Floyd, Pike and Breathitt Counties. “No doubt, many challenges lie ahead, but we will all work together to find additional help for those in need. We are making progress, and we will continue to move forward. Remember, register with FEMA even if you have received help in previous disasters. May God bless you all during the recovery process.”
06.05.2009	For those individuals in Eastern Kentucky impacted by the devastating floods that occurred May 8 and 9, 2009, please click here: http://www.disasterassistance.gov/daip_en.portal ADVISORY: Pike, Owsley, Floyd, and Breathitt County Residents: Register with FEMA if you have suffered property losses as a result of mudslides and flooding from storms beginning May 3, 2009 (FEMA Disaster # DR-1841-KY). You may be eligible for assistance even if you have received help from FEMA in the past.
06.03.2009	Today, Congressman Harold “Hal” Rogers (KY-05) relayed important information to those individuals who are eligible for FEMA Assistance: “Hello, this is Congressman Hal Rogers. “As we begin to recover from the terrible storms and flooding, I wanted to ensure that you had the most up to date and accurate information on how to apply for FEMA assistance. “Individuals and households in Breathitt, Pike, Owsley and Floyd counties can now register for FEMA disaster assistance. “If you suffered damage and losses from the flooding, be sure to call FEMA toll free at 1-800-621-FEMA. Lines are open 7 A.M. to 10 P.M. seven days a week. “If you have access to internet, you can also register online at anytime by visiting www.disasterassistance.gov. “Remember to have your current contact information, proof of address, social security number, list of damages and bank information with you when you place your request with FEMA. “Finally, do not delay. Even if you registered with a local agency or the Red Cross you must register with FEMA to be considered for federal assistance. “Register with FEMA today. The number again is 1-800-621-3362.”
