11.30.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements after the United States, Mexico, and Canada formally signed the new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement. Trade Subcommittee Chairman Reichert stated:“Throughout my time in Congress I have been proud to champion trade agreements that help American businesses, workers, and farmers sell their goods and services around the world. With today’s signing of an updated agreement with our North American partners, I urge the Administration to continue to work with my colleagues to ensure the agreement meets the standards laid out by Congress and is ultimately successful. A modernized agreement that increases opportunities to sell more goods and services and provides certainty for American businesses is key to the over 248,000 jobs in my home state that depend on trade with Canada and Mexico. I thank Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for their work on this agreement.” Chairman Brady added:“A trilateral agreement to update and modernize NAFTA for the 21st century can be a big win for America’s workers, farmers, and ranchers. With today’s signing by the United States, Mexico, and Canada, we are carefully analyzing this text in the open and transparent process that Congress created under our new trade rules. “There is no doubt that President Trump has delivered on his promise to obtain many provisions that will increase our ability to sell more American goods and services. But as I’ve said throughout the negotiations, for USMCA to gain widespread support, it must increase certainty as to the durability of the agreement, be fully enforceable to hold our trading partners accountable across all sectors, and increase – not diminish – our ability to sell into these markets. “I look forward to continuing to consult with the Trump Administration as we look closely at these important questions.”
10.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements after United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer, pursuant to the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) Act, sent letters to Congress expressing the Administration’s intent to enter into three different trade negotiations with the European Union, Japan, and the United Kingdom. Trade Subcommittee Chairman Reichert stated:“I am pleased by today’s announcement demonstrating a formal intent to begin negotiations with some of our greatest trading partners: Japan, the European Union, and the United Kingdom. I applaud Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for this progress and urge the Administration to consult extensively with Congress as the scope and objectives for these negotiations are set. With 40 percent of jobs tied to trade in my home state of Washington, strong and ambitious trade agreements with these allies would be beneficial for our workers, businesses, and farmers.” Chairman Brady added:“I welcome these letters stating that Ambassador Lighthizer intends to begin trade negotiations with the European Union, Japan, and the United Kingdom after additional consultation with Congress. I commend President Trump for working to open up more customers in new markets for U.S. farmers and companies. The progress that has been made to prepare for such negotiations is encouraging. “These three economies are some of our largest and most important trading partners, but they are also markets in which U.S. farmers, manufacturers, and service providers face significant barriers. New, ambitious, and high-standard trade agreements with each of these economies would expand our ability to sell ‘made in America’ products around the globe and deepen our partnership with these close trading partners and vital allies. “I look forward to consulting with the Administration to develop detailed U.S. negotiating objectives that comply with the requirements of TPA, so we can obtain the strongest and most ambitious possible trade agreements for U.S. workers, companies, and farmers.” Background: Under the requirements of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Trade Promotion Authority Act, these negotiations can begin after 90 days, which allows for intensive consultation with Members of Congress and stakeholders regarding the negotiating objectives for the talks. TPA also requires the publication of detailed negotiating objectives at least 30 days before the start of negotiations.
10.01.2018	Washington, DC - Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, released the following statements after their recent introduction of House Resolution 1107 supporting the designation of National Secure Your Load Day on June 6th. “Each year, thousands of drivers are injured as a result of unsecure loads and road debris on our nation’s highways,” Rep. Reichert said. “This resolution honors the lives of those who have been impacted, including the daughter of my constituent, Robin Abel. After her daughter was catastrophically injured by an unsecured load, Robin has dedicated her time and energy to raising awareness about these avoidable tragedies. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, I am proud to introduce this resolution to highlight the need to make our roads safer by securing loads and preventing road debris.” “Highway safety is an important issue, and one that means a lot to me,” said Rep. Pascrell. “In 2015, there was a deadly incident on the New Jersey Turnpike in Kearny. The driver of a gasoline tanker was killed when his oil tanker collided with another vehicle, flipped over a guardrail, and caught fire trying to avoid an unsecured load which had fallen off of a vehicle and obstructed the highway. There have been so many similar tragedies across the country. Congress should bring greater awareness to this problem, and establishing a National Secure Your Loads Day would do just that.” According to a study by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, in 2016 more than 90,266 incidents were caused by unsecured loads, resulting in approximately 19,663 injuries and 683 deaths. Additionally, in 2018, 48 States participated in Secure Your Load Day on June 6th. Rep. Reichert has been a strong advocate in Congress for this issue, encouraging his colleagues to support this cause and raise awareness across the country.
10.01.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the United States, Mexico, and Canada announced that an agreement has been reached on the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement: “I congratulate Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for the work they have done so far in this agreement. I am very glad Canada is now part of the agreement because North America is stronger and more successful together. With 40% of jobs tied to trade in my home state of Washington, an updated NAFTA agreement is beneficial for our workers, businesses, and farmers. I look forward to taking a closer look at the agreement and discussing it with my colleagues to determine whether it meets our objectives. I am optimistic that a strong partnership will create jobs and growth here in America."
09.28.2018	Washington, DC - The House passed H.R. 6757, the Family Savings Act of 2018, H.R. 6756, the American Innovation Act of 2018, and H.R. 6760, the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018 this week. These bills make up a package known as Tax Reform 2.0. As a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and member of the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after passage: “Today my colleagues and I in the House reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring Americans can continue to keep more of their hard-earned dollars for years to come. To do this we made the provisions for individuals in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent, improved retirement security, and promoted entrepreneurship in America. Since passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December, Washingtonians have seen more jobs in their communities and increased wages and benefits. For an average family of four in my district, the new tax code results in a tax cut of nearly $3,357. With these bills we built on the success of tax reform, expanding opportunities for Americans to save for their retirement and supporting new businesses that drive innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America with startup costs and capital.” In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97) was passed and signed into law. As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Reichert was actively involved in the formulation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and will continue to be involved in Tax Reform 2.0. The House Ways and Means Committee passed the Tax Reform 2.0 package earlier this month.
09.28.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House passed H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, with strong bipartisan support. This package includes H.R. 5788, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act of 2018. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the vote: “The opioid epidemic does not discriminate. It affects all Americans, tearing apart families and destroying thousands of lives every year because of overdoses. In my home state of Washington, we have seen an 134% increase in opioid-related cases between 2004 and 2016 which has also led to a 33% increase in opioid-related deaths. Today, my colleagues and I took a stand against this epidemic by passing a package of solutions aimed at stopping this crisis called the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. This includes stopping the shipment of opioids in the international mail system through the STOP Act that I was proud to champion as Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. I know this bipartisan, bicameral package will help combat the opioid epidemic in our country.”
09.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, released the following statement after a bipartisan Ways and Means meeting with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to discuss the Administration’s trade agenda and current trade negotiations. “I appreciated this morning’s discussion with Ambassador Lighthizer about how we can create more opportunities for Washington’s farmers, workers, and businesses to sell their world class products around the world through trade agreements. Ambitious trade agreements that provide access, certainty, and high-standard rules support American workers and the creation of jobs here at home. This is why I am committed to working with the Administration to ensure successful bilateral negotiations with Japan and an updated agreement with our North American trading partners. It is my hope that the Administration will focus on pursuing these and new opportunities to tear down tariff and non-tariff barriers, opening up new markets to American businesses, rather than placing tariffs on U.S. imports.”
09.27.2018	Wenatchee, WA - On Friday, September 28, 2018, the Wenatchee Office of Congressman Dave Reichert, located at 5 South Wenatchee Avenue, Suite 315, will close. Pending Congressman Reichert’s retirement, appointments in the Central Washington area will continue to be scheduled through the end of the year. To schedule an appointment in this area, please contact Tyler Mackay at (509) 885-6615 or Tyler.Mackay@mail.house.gov. When the meeting has been arranged, a meeting location will be provided. If you are a constituent of the 8th District and are in need of assistance with a federal agency, please contact Congressman Reichert’s Issaquah Office at (425) 677-7414. The Congressman’s Issaquah Office will remain open through the fall.
09.26.2018	Washington, DC - Today, President Donald J. Trump and Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced they will be entering negotiations on a bilateral trade agreement between the United States and Japan. Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement: “With the close ties between Washington State and Japan, I welcome the news that the United States and Japan intend to enter into bilateral negotiations. These negotiations represent an opportunity to create a stronger partnership with this key ally that will benefit communities in my home state and across the country. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee and Co-Chair of the U.S.-Japan Caucus, I look forward to engaging with Ambassador Lighthizer to ensure Washington’s farmers, workers, and businesses gain greater access to the Japanese market through the removal of significant tariff and non-tariff barriers.
09.26.2018	Washington, DC - This afternoon, the House passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the vote: “Today, my colleagues and I passed important legislation that not only continues to fund the government, but also gives our troops a much-needed pay raise, funds medical research, ensures resources to fight the opioid epidemic, provides more funding for underprivileged students to pursue higher education, and improves school safety by investing in mental health and violence prevention programs in schools. Throughout my time in Congress, I have consistently voted in support of legislation that ensures our government remains open and serving the American people. I am proud that this legislation consists of more than just a short-term extension of funding, and instead provides funding for several government agencies through the next fiscal year, providing funding certainty for key programs that the American people rely on.” This “minibus” appropriations bill funds the Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Labor, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department of Education, and Related Agencies for fiscal year 2019. The bill includes funding to support military readiness and includes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops, the largest pay raise in nine years. It also makes critical investments in several programs championed by Congressman Reichert, including medical research through the DOD Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program and the National Institutes of Health; as well as funding for Community Health Centers and programs to improve school safety and access to mental health services. The bill also increases funding for special education, and programs to help prepare low income students for college, including an increase in the maximum Pell Grant award. Finally, the bill rejects efforts to eliminate funding for public broadcasting. The package also includes a Continuing Resolution that will fund remaining government programs not included in the minibus through December 7, 2018, as well as an extension of the Violence Against Women Act. The bill also provided an additional $8.8 billion for victims of Hurricane Florence.
09.24.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements regarding the agreement the United States and South Korea signed today to update the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS): “Passage of the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement is one of my proudest achievements during my time in Congress," Chairman Reichert said. "I fought for this agreement because I knew it would benefit Washington’s workers and businesses and make our relationship with Korea even stronger. With the signing of today’s updated agreement, we are improving our trade relationship and reaffirming our commitment to a key ally and trading partner in a region of the world where we must be engaged. Thank you to Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for their work on this important agreement that will further strengthen our ties and benefit both our countries.”“I am pleased that the United States and South Korea took this important step toward implementing the agreement to update and improve KORUS, and I congratulate the President and Ambassador Lighthizer for negotiating this positive outcome," Chairman Brady said. "South Korea is one of our closest allies and trading partners, and these updates to KORUS will put our trade relationship on an even stronger and more durable foundation. The outcome is a win for both countries and will help ensure that our trade relationship with South Korea benefits all Americans.”BACKGROUND: KORUS took effect in March 2012. The Governments of the United States and South Korea announced an agreement in March 2018 to address implementation issues with the agreement and to make modifications or amendments to certain aspects of the agreement. President Trump and President Moon Jae-in signed this agreement on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York today. Prior to a House vote on KORUS, Chairman Reichert launched the bipartisan Congressional U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement.
09.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), and Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) highlighted a decision by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to include sweet cherries in the Market Facilitation Program (MFP), which was established through USDA’s Trade Relief Plan, beginning on September 24. The MFP assists farmers hurt by unjustified retaliatory tariffs. The decision comes after the members sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue in August, calling on USDA to provide sweet cherries equal access to the relief measures being developed for U.S. agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. Sweet cherries will be eligible for MFP payments starting at a rate of 16 cents per pound.“While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs,” the members of Congress wrote to Secretary Perdue in August.“Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting,” the members of Congress added. Following today’s announcement that sweet cherries will be eligible for the funding, the USDA will announce the specifics of the available aid in the coming weeks.The full text of the letter the members sent to Secretary Perdue in August can be found HERE and below. Dear Secretary Perdue: We write to request that sweet cherries have equal access to any relief measures the Department of Agriculture provides for agricultural commodities impacted by retaliatory tariffs. While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. The Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714) provides the Secretary of Agriculture broad authority to use the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out almost any program that supports U.S. agriculture, including expanding domestic and international markets, providing disaster relief, supporting research and pest and disease management, and assisting farmers when crop prices drop or revenues decline. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 removed language that once limited the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) ability to provide assistance to certain commodities. Therefore, we believe there are no limitations on how the USDA can assist our agricultural producers or what type of agricultural commodities qualify for assistance. The 2,500 sweet cherry producers grow more cherries in the Pacific Northwest than any other region in the country. Sweet cherries have the shortest growing season of any tree fruit, which typically starts the beginning of May and ends by the middle of August. Sweet cherries are highly perishable, so the cherries must be picked and reach intended markets immediately. Sweet cherries cannot be stored. This harvest time sensitivity and short season creates tremendous pressure for the producer to sell cherries at any available price, even if it means financial losses. On July 24, 2018, you announced that the USDA will use the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance to agricultural producers that have experienced harm from the retaliatory tariffs that have been imposed on U.S. agricultural exports. You announced relief would come in three forms: a market facilitation program that will provide payments to producers that have and continue to experience damage from the ongoing trade wars, a food purchase and distribution program that will purchase surplus agricultural commodities, and a trade promotion program that will assist in developing new markets for agricultural products. Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting. Sincerely,
09.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA, 8th District) joined Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA, 4th District) and Denny Heck (D-WA, 10th District) to renew their bipartisan defense of the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing industry in a letter to President Trump. The letter, which highlights immediate and dire threats to the U.S. polysilicon industry, comes as the devastating impacts of Chinese tariffs placed on polysilicon materials in 2014 could force the closure of REC Silicon in Moses Lake. “In July we warned that the trade dispute between the U.S. and China over solar power was threatening hundreds of highly skilled jobs in Washington State and Montana, and we regret to inform you that REC will be forced to completely shutter its operations in Moses Lake, Washington at the end of this month,” the members of Congress wrote. “The closure will result in the loss of 150-200 highly skilled manufacturers and will severely impact the economy of Eastern Washington.” In 2014, China placed tariffs on polysilicon materials, a key component in the production of semiconductors, solar panels, and other technology products, in retaliation for U.S. tariffs previously imposed on energy products from China. The move effectively locked U.S. polysilicon manufacturers out of the market, forcing the closure of REC Silicon at its Moses Lake plant, which relied on Chinese imports of polysilicon materials. In today’s bipartisan letter to President Trump, the members of Congress urged the president to find an immediate resolution to the trade dispute over Chinese solar panels and American polysilicon, noting that hundreds more highly skilled workers could lose their jobs if a solution isn’t found. “We strongly encourage your trade negotiators to raise the issues facing the U.S. polysilicon industry, and we request a progress report on these negotiations as soon as possible,” the letter states. “We believe a resolution over solar panels and polysilicon could serve as a symbol of good faith on both sides, protect intellectual property that provides domestic manufacturers a competitive edge, and spark meaningful progress in the larger trade negotiations between the U.S. and China.” In July of this year, a similar letter was sent to President Trump to underscore the importance of the U.S. polysilicon industry to local economies in Washington and across the country. In addition to Representative Reichert, Senators Murray and Cantwell, and Representatives Newhouse and Heck, the bipartisan letter was also signed by the members of Montana’s congressional delegation, including U.S. Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), U.S. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), and U.S. Representative Greg Gianforte (R-MT). The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. September 21, 2018 Dear Mr. President: We write to follow up on a letter sent July 23, 2018 regarding REC Silicon and the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing industry. In July we warned that the trade dispute between the U.S. and China over solar power was threatening hundreds of highly skilled jobs in Washington State and Montana, and we regret to inform you that REC will be forced to completely shutter its operations in Moses Lake, Washington at the end of this month. The closure will result in the loss of 150-200 highly skilled manufacturers and will severely impact the economy of Eastern Washington. As you are undoubtedly aware, in 2012 the Obama Administration unsuccessfully attempted to bolster domestic solar manufacturing capacity by levying tariffs on imported solar panels from China. In response, China announced a 50% tariff on American polysilicon, a crucial input in the production of semiconductors and solar panels. The impact of this Chinese retaliation has been devastating to the U.S. polysilicon industry, which has shed thousands of jobs since China announced tariffs in 2014. The damage inflicted on the US polysilicon industry was of course an unintended consequence, but one that has dramatically affected our constituents. We strongly urge you to move past the unsuccessful actions of the past Administration and find an immediate resolution to the trade dispute over Chinese solar panels and American polysilicon. According to news reports, your Administration may soon reengage China in a new round of trade talks. We strongly encourage your trade negotiators to raise the issues facing the U.S. polysilicon industry, and we request a progress report on these negotiations as soon as possible. We also implore you to separate the negotiations over solar power from the larger bilateral trade conversations between the U.S. and China. The threats to the U.S. polysilicon industry are immediate and dire, and we believe this sectoral dispute could be resolved in a short period of time. We believe a resolution over solar panels and polysilicon could serve as a symbol of good faith on both sides, protect intellectual property that provides domestic manufacturers a competitive edge, and spark meaningful progress in the larger trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. As we wrote in July, it is imperative the United States obtain a positive and permanent resolution for U.S. polysilicon companies like REC Silicon. Without a resolution, hundreds of highly skilled workers will lose their jobs and U.S. control of the world’s most advanced polysilicon technology could be jeopardized. Sincerely,
09.21.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, President Trump signed into law the Tribal Social Security Fairness Act (H.R. 6124), sponsored by Washington State Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA). This law ensures tribal governments have the same opportunity to participate in the Social Security program that so many others rely on. “We are proud to see this bipartisan legislation signed into law,” the Members said. “This bill rights a wrong that our tribal leaders have been facing for too long, ensuring they can receive the Social Security benefits they deserve. This straightforward solution to a technical problem will now allow our tribal leaders to participate in Social Security and get the benefits they have worked hard for. We thank the Muckleshoot and Snoqualmie tribes in our home state of Washington for their dedication to resolving this issue.” "Representative Reichert, Representative Kilmer, Representative DelBene, and their staffs have championed this cause ever since we raised it with them. We appreciate their leadership on this issue and their success in providing tribal leaders with equal access to the Social Security system,” Washington State Muckleshoot Tribe Chairwoman, Virginia Cross said.Background: When Social Security was created in 1935, state and local government employees were excluded from receiving Social Security coverage. The Social Security Amendments of 1950 gave states the option to extend Social Security coverage to certain state and local government employees. However, unlike state and local governments, Tribal Councils do not have the option to participate in Social Security under current law. The Tribal Social Security Fairness Act makes the needed technical fix so tribal nations can voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Social Security Administration (SSA) to allow their elected leaders to participate in Social Security. Additional cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Cole (R-OK), Schweikert (R-AZ), Gallego (D-AZ), and O’Halleran (D-AZ).
09.17.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the United States Trade Representative announced that the Administration will impose additional tariffs on Chinese products: “Instead of punishing China, today’s announcement places the burden on American families, manufacturers, and farmers, who will pay the higher tariffs and bear the brunt of retaliation. To address China’s unfair trade practices and theft of intellectual property, I join Chairman Brady and my colleagues in urging President Trump to negotiate a lasting, long-term solution that will end China’s practices and support the competitiveness of U.S. businesses and workers. As we work to put a stop to China’s practices that harm American workers and businesses, I call on the Administration to provide for a product exclusion process from the tariffs, so Americans can seek the relief they need to make, create, and sell their products.”
09.13.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House Ways and Means Committee passed three pieces of legislation that compile a package known as Tax Reform 2.0. This package makes the provisions for individuals in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent, improves retirement security, and promotes entrepreneurship in America. “Over the past nine months we have seen significant benefits from tax reform including almost 1.7 million new jobs, the fastest wage growth in 9 years, and greater investments in workforce development and employee benefits. And for the average family of four in my district, the new tax code means a tax cut of nearly $3,357. Today, by passing these three bills, we are building on this work and reaffirming our commitment to keeping our tax code competitive and up-to-date. We are making tax relief permanent for families and individuals, so Americans can continue to keep more of their hard-earned dollars for years to come. We are promoting retirement savings by helping smaller employers offer retirement plans to their employees. And lastly, we are encouraging innovation and reinvigorating the entrepreneurial spirit in America by helping new businesses with startup costs and capital. Today marks an important step for families, entrepreneurs, and communities across America." In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97) was passed and signed into law. As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Reichert was actively involved in the formulation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and will continue to be involved in Tax Reform 2.0.
09.04.2018	Washington, DC - The House passed by voice vote today the Senate amendment to H.R. 4318, the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2018. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation passed the House in January by a unanimous vote, and then the Senate amended the House bill in July and passed it by unanimous consent. The House today agreed to the Senate amendment. House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), original cosponsor of the bill, released the following statement upon final passage:“With passage of the MTB, American manufacturers can create jobs, reduce costs, and better compete globally,” Chairman Reichert said. “For businesses in my home state of Washington, the MTB will provide nearly $16 million in cost savings that they can put towards investing in their employees and their products. Today’s vote reaffirms our commitment to these workers and manufacturers and will benefit communities across the country.” Rep. Reichert has been a leader on this issue for many years. Earlier this Congress, he held a hearing in the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee on the issue entitled, “Miscellaneous Tariff Bill: Providing Relief to U.S. Manufacturers Through the New MTB Process.” In 2016, Congress passed the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) that established an open and transparent process for consideration of the MTB. Under this new process, American businesses have been able to petition the International Trade Commission (ITC) for tariff relief on their products, so long as it met the requirements outlined in the AMCA. Based on the petition requests and recommendations from the ITC, this legislation provides tariff relief on products for hundreds of businesses across the country. In December 2017, more than 190 businesses and organizations sent a letter to Congress urging swift passage of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act. Since the last MTB expired in 2012, American companies have faced an annual $748 million tax hike on manufacturing in the United States. This has resulted in a $1.8 billion loss to the U.S. economy.
08.31.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after President Donald Trump notified Congress of his intention to enter into a modernized trade agreement: "With forty percent of jobs tied to trade in Washington, my constituents rely on trade agreements to create jobs and growth at home. An improved and updated agreement with our North American trading partners is key to supporting and growing these jobs in my home state and across the country. The Administration’s notification of its intent to sign an agreement with Mexico is encouraging, as well as its acknowledgement that Canada will be included if it is able to meet the high standards. I look forward to reviewing the details of the agreement to ensure that it meets the high standards we have established in Congress and that my constituents demand. I strongly urge Canada to engage in the negotiations with renewed energy, and I expect the Administration to engage with Congress as it continues negotiating with Canada. We are stronger and more successful together, and I look forward to reaching agreement on an updated agreement that includes all three countries and benefits American farmers, workers, and businesses." Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) added: “While NAFTA has been largely successful for our workers and companies, the President is correct that we need new rules to better face the challenges of today’s modern economy. The President’s notification today marks an important step toward that goal. “I look forward to carefully analyzing the details of what has been agreed to and consulting with my colleagues and constituents to determine whether the new proposal meets the high-standard trade priorities set out by Congress under Trade Promotion Authority. “I also strongly urge Canada to step up and demonstrate that it can take on the ambitious obligations of the agreement with the aim of concluding a modern, seamless three-way agreement.”
08.30.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Commerce announced improvements to the section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs product exclusion process: “I am pleased the Administration is now making significant improvements to the 232 product exclusion process and responding to the requests made by my colleagues and me. Through hearings and letters, we have requested these changes to make the process more effective and efficient for American businesses, workers, and manufacturers. I thank the Administration for making several of these important reforms and urge the timely consideration of the remaining applications.” Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) added: “I welcome President Trump and Secretary Ross’s announcement of several important improvements to the Commerce Department’s authority to issue product exclusions. These enhancements allow U.S. companies to obtain needed and fairly traded steel and aluminum inputs that are not available from U.S. suppliers. "I have joined with many other Members of Congress over the last several months - including Dave Reichert, Jackie Walorski and Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson - to urge Secretary Ross to consider these common-sense improvements, and I applaud him for doing so. These changes will improve the competitiveness of our local businesses. “I hope that these expansions to Commerce’s authority to issue product exclusions will make a real difference to the hundreds of U.S. companies in Texas and throughout the country that await a decision on their product exclusion requests. Now that these very helpful improvements are in place, I am confident that Commerce will continue to expedite and streamline the process using its existing authority to make relief broadly available and extend it where there are no objections. I will continue to engage with Secretary Ross and his staff to that end.”Background: President Trump signed proclamations yesterday that make several changes to the Commerce Department’s authority to issue product exclusions from tariffs and quotas on steel and aluminum that have been imposed under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. These changes allow the Commerce Department to grant product exclusions for products that are from countries subject to quotas, just as it can do for products from other countries; allow for limited grandfathering of certain contracts to import steel or aluminum that were entered into prior to the announcement of Section 232 tariffs on March 8, 2018; and extend retroactivity of relief from product exclusion to the date that the request for relief was accepted by the Department of Commerce (rather than the date the application was posted, as was previously the case).
08.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the Administration announced that the United States and Mexico have resolved bilateral issues with respect to their trade negotiations: “With the importance of trade with Canada and Mexico to my home state of Washington, I am encouraged that today’s announcement reaffirms our commitment to a trade agreement with our North American partners. Because my constituents rely on NAFTA to create jobs and growth at home, my priorities remain an improved and modernized NAFTA that provides certainty, includes strong protections, and is fully enforceable. I urge the Administration to engage with Congress as it moves forward in negotiations with Canada, and I hope that Canada will come back to the table with new energy. We are stronger and more successful together, and I look forward to reaching agreement on an updated agreement that includes all three countries and benefits American farmers, workers, and businesses.”
08.25.2018	Washington, DC - Following the passing of Senator John McCain, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: "Today, we lost a true American hero. Senator John McCain dedicated his life to serving this great country. From his military service in the United States Navy, representing Arizona in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, to running for president in 2008, Senator McCain’s record of public service will be remembered for generations. My thoughts, prayers, and sincerest condolences are with his family as they reflect on his life on this earth and joyfully celebrate his new life with his Father in Heaven."
08.24.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08), U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-04) called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture to provide sweet cherries equal access to the relief measures being developed for U.S. agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. Last month, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue announced that the department would provide assistance to agricultural producers harmed by increased tariffs and prices, but it has not yet released how and what agricultural commodities will receive this assistance. “While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs,” the members of Congress said in a letter to Secretary Perdue. Sweet cherry growers are estimating up to $86 million in damages from the trade wars, with increased costs coming directly out-of-pocket.“Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting,” the members of Congress said. The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. Dear Secretary Perdue: We write to request that sweet cherries have equal access to any relief measures the Department of Agriculture provides for agricultural commodities impacted by retaliatory tariffs. While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. The Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714) provides the Secretary of Agriculture broad authority to use the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out almost any program that supports U.S. agriculture, including expanding domestic and international markets, providing disaster relief, supporting research and pest and disease management, and assisting farmers when crop prices drop or revenues decline. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 removed language that once limited the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) ability to provide assistance to certain commodities. Therefore, we believe there are no limitations on how the USDA can assist our agricultural producers or what type of agricultural commodities qualify for assistance. The 2,500 sweet cherry producers grow more cherries in the Pacific Northwest than any other region in the country. Sweet cherries have the shortest growing season of any tree fruit, which typically starts the beginning of May and ends by the middle of August. Sweet cherries are highly perishable, so the cherries must be picked and reach intended markets immediately. Sweet cherries cannot be stored. This harvest time sensitivity and short season creates tremendous pressure for the producer to sell cherries at any available price, even if it means financial losses. On July 24, 2018, you announced that the USDA will use the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance to agricultural producers that have experienced harm from the retaliatory tariffs that have been imposed on U.S. agricultural exports. You announced relief would come in three forms: a market facilitation program that will provide payments to producers that have and continue to experience damage from the ongoing trade wars, a food purchase and distribution program that will purchase surplus agricultural commodities, and a trade promotion program that will assist in developing new markets for agricultural products. Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting. Sincerely,
08.03.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) received the Excellence in Public Service Award from the American Academy of Pediatrics. The Excellence in Public Service Award is given to public servants who demonstrate distinguished service to infants, children, adolescents, and young adults. Rep. Reichert was recognized for his record in Congress, including service as co-chair of the Global Health Caucus and Children’s Health Care Caucus, sponsorship of bills critical to the health and development of children worldwide, such as the Reach Every Mother and Child Act and the READ Act, as well as legislation he ushered into law such as the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act and the Family First Prevention Services Act. Past recipients of this prestigious award include First Lady Michelle Obama, Senator Edward Kennedy, and Senator Orrin Hatch.“Since my time in law enforcement, my career has been dedicated to protecting, strengthening, and creating opportunities for our children. It has been my privilege to advocate on behalf of children during my 14 years in Congress, improving the health and safety of children in our community and around the world. It is a true honor to receive this prestigious award in recognition of this work,” said Rep. Reichert. Dr. Robyn Rogers, MD, FAAP, presented Rep. Reichert with the award at a presentation ceremony at Mary Bridge Children’s Hospital in Tacoma, Washington. During the presentation, she shared,“Congressman Reichert has long been a just such a champion. His efforts stretch from the global to the local…[his] record of achievement, including [his] service as co-chair of the Global Health and Children’s Health Care Caucuses has profoundly improved the lives of children in the United States and worldwide. Congratulations, and on behalf of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Mary Bridge Children’s Hospital and my fellow District Eight constituents, I sincerely thank [him] for [his] years of service.”
07.26.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) led 20 of their Republican Committee colleagues in a letter to President Donald J. Trump urging the President to meet directly with Chinese President Xi Jinping. This letter was delivered by Chairman Reichert, Chairman Brady and Committee Republicans prior to their meeting with President Trump at the White House this week focused on agriculture. In the letter, the lawmakers wrote to President Trump:“We are writing to urge you to meet directly with President Xi to begin crafting an historic new solution on trade that levels the playing field between China and the United States for U.S. farmers, workers, and businesses. We are confident that if you personally engage with President Xi, you would reinvigorate the negotiations and develop meaningful solutions that will establish free, fair, and lasting trade between the United States and China and improve the competitiveness of U.S. companies.""To your credit, you have developed a strong personal relationship with President Xi.""We strongly agree with the conclusions that you and your Administration have made in the recent Section 301 Report that China engages in a wide range of unfair and distortive trade practices harming U.S. companies, farmers, and their employees." "We are confident that you have China’s attention on these issues and that you have the ability to negotiate an ambitious and enforceable agreement." Joining Chairmen Reichert and Brady on the letter were: Reps. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Adrian Smith (R-NE), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Kenny Marchant (R-TX), Diane Black (R-TN), Tom Reed (R-NY), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Kristi Noem (R-SD), George Holding (R-NC), Tom Rice (R-SC), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Jackie Walorski (R-IN), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Darin LaHood (R-IL), and Brad Wenstrup (R-OH).CLICK HERE or read below to see the full letter.Dear President Trump:We are writing to urge you to meet directly with President Xi to begin crafting an historic new solution on trade that levels the playing field between China and the United States for U.S. farmers, workers, and businesses. We are confident that if you personally engage with President Xi, you would reinvigorate the negotiations and develop meaningful solutions that will establish free, fair, and lasting trade between the United States and China and improve the competitiveness of U.S. companies. Senior officials in your Administration have gone to great lengths to meet with Chinese officials, but it appears that there are no serious trade discussions underway or currently scheduled that could lead to a solution. We strongly agree with the conclusions that you and your Administration have made in the recent Section 301 Report that China engages in a wide range of unfair and distortive trade practices harming U.S. companies, farmers, and their employees. These practices include subsidies and other unjustified government support that have led to severe overcapacity in China’s steel, aluminum, and other sectors. These inequitable practices also include the theft of U.S. intellectual property, forced technology transfer, and licensing policies that you and your Administration have identified. We are pleased that you are committed to addressing these challenges to compel change to China’s unfair practices so that U.S. companies can compete on a level playing field.Our shared objective is long-term and enduring reform in Chinese subsidies, tariffs, and other trade barriers. While tariffs cause short-term economic pain to China, they also boomerang on American companies, farmers, workers, and consumers – and we hear every day from Americans who are caught in a destructive cycle of escalation. A lasting solution can be established only through fundamental change to the Chinese system. Timely and astute negotiations under your leadership are essential to accomplishing this goal. To your credit, you have developed a strong personal relationship with President Xi. We are confident that this background can provide the platform for tough, candid, and pragmatic discussions with President Xi about solutions for China to reform its unfair trade practices and reduce unacceptable barriers to U.S. trade and investment in China. The stakes are high but the opportunity is upon us.We recognize that all too often China has refused to discuss the fundamental changes that are needed to establish a trade relationship that is fair for America. We are confident that you have China’s attention on these issues and that you have the ability to negotiate an ambitious and enforceable agreement. We look forward to working with you in the very near future to accomplish this bold but necessary goal.
07.26.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, attended a meeting at the White House to discuss trade and agriculture. "I appreciated the opportunity to speak with the President directly and share examples of how the Section 232 and 301 tariffs are hurting farmers, workers, and consumers in my home state of Washington. From contracts cancelled by customers abroad to increased costs on imported equipment, our agricultural industry is feeling the pain both from the Administration’s tariffs on certain U.S. imports and the retaliatory tariffs placed by our trading partners on our exports. While I share the Administration’s goal of helping America’s farmers, we can best support their efforts with a long-term solution that provides certainty and not only protects their access to overseas markets but opens up new market opportunities. I remain committed to working with the President and his Administration to ensure America’s farmers have the chance to compete globally and win, creating jobs here at home."
07.26.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, released the following statement regarding the announcement by President Donald Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. Yesterday, Chairman Reichert had the opportunity to meet with EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström. “I welcome the President’s announcement regarding an agreement with EU Commission President Juncker to negotiate zero tariffs, zero subsidies, and zero barriers with the European Union. This sends a positive message that we are negotiating better access into the European market on behalf of America’s farmers, workers, and manufacturers while also joining with a key partner to tackle China’s unfair trade practices and reform the World Trade Organization (WTO). Cooperation with our major trading partners and allies benefits American businesses, workers, and farmers, and strengthens our partnerships around the world. I am committed to working with the Administration to further this goal.”
07.26.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the Administration's announcement it will authorize up to $12 billion in aid for farmers facing retaliatory tariffs. "I share and appreciate the Administration’s commitment to helping our farmers, but our priority must be to provide a long-term solution for our communities that ensures our farmers, ranchers, and producers have access to foreign markets. With 90% of apple exports and 83% of cherry exports coming from the Pacific Northwest, Washington’s growers have worked for decades to build their brand and customer base abroad. Protecting this work requires a long-term solution. We heard this message loud and clear last week at a hearing of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. I am committed to working with the Administration to provide a lasting solution and the certainty our agriculture community needs to thrive."
07.24.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) spoke on the House floor in support of his legislation, the Tribal Social Security Fairness Act (H.R. 6124). The bill ensures tribal governments have the same opportunity to participate in the Social Security program that so many others rely on. The bill passed by unanimous consent, and is cosponsored by fellow Washington delegation members, Reps. DelBene and Kilmer. “I am proud to see my bipartisan legislation pass the House today,” said Rep. Reichert. “This bill rights a wrong for our tribal leaders, ensuring that they can receive the Social Security benefits they deserve. For too long, they haven’t been given the chance to pay into Social Security, and that just isn’t fair. This bill provides a straightforward solution to this problem, so that our tribal leaders no longer need to worry about whether or not they can rely on the Social Security benefits they deserve. I thank my delegation colleagues, Reps. DelBene and Kilmer, as well as the Muckleshoot and Snoqualmie tribes for their work on this important issue.” To watch Rep. Reichert’s floor speech, click HERE.Background: When Social Security was created in 1935, state and local government employees were excluded from receiving Social Security coverage. The Social Security Amendments of 1950 gave states the option to extend Social Security coverage to certain state and local government employees. However, unlike state and local governments, Tribal Councils do not have the option to participate in Social Security under current law. This bill makes the needed technical fix so tribal nations can voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Social Security Administration (SSA) to allow their elected leaders to participate in Social Security. Additional cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Cole (R-OK), Schweikert (R-AZ), Gallego (D-AZ), and O’Halleran (D-AZ).
07.24.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, led today’s hearing on the product exclusion process for Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. The hearing addressed the experiences of U.S. companies navigating the process for requesting product exclusions from Section 232 tariffs and quotas on steel and aluminum. To watch the hearing in full, click HERE. Chairman Reichert’s prepared opening remarks:“Good afternoon. The Subcommittee will come to order. “Today’s hearing focuses on the experiences of U.S. companies that are participating in the product exclusion process in the hopes of obtaining relief from the tariffs that the Administration has imposed on steel and aluminum. “As Congress provides oversight related to the Administration’s initiatives to confront China’s unfair trade practices, we must strike the right balance between being tough but also being effective and minimizing harm to American businesses and workers. “China’s predatory trading tactics are clear, and we applaud the President for taking action to end these abusive policies. However, these challenges warrant a targeted response that minimizes collateral damage to the U.S. economy. There are now serious problems as a result of the Administration’s decision to implement broad tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. “I believe that these tariffs are hitting the wrong target. When it comes to market-distorting excess capacity to produce steel and aluminum, our allies like Canada, Mexico, and the European Union are not the problem – China is. Exempting our closest trading partners from these steel and aluminum tariffs would take some pressure off of American businesses, but in the meantime, we must help our manufacturers by making the product exclusion process more efficient. As it stands, it is broken and must be fixed. “In particular, many American manufacturers need to import certain specialized products from other countries that are not readily available in the United States so they can manufacture goods and create jobs here in America. It’s clear to me that “readily available” in this context should include availability in the specifications, quality, and timing a U.S. company requires. Otherwise, we are penalizing American businesses for making their products here at home rather than importing finished goods that in most cases would not face steel or aluminum tariffs. “That is why this hearing will focus on improving the exclusion process from the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs. We must lift the significant burden that American manufacturers are facing – burdens that can lead to lost projects and lost jobs. Our manufacturers need certainty and predictability so that they can make their business decisions and do what they do best. “Today, we’ll hear from a broad range of local American job creators about the problems with the exclusion process. We are gathering facts – to find out what is working and what is not – so that the Administration can make the necessary changes and provide relief for our businesses and workers. “I want to recognize that the small staff at the Commerce Department working on the exclusion process has worked hard in challenging circumstances to consider thousands of exclusion requests. We received a statement from Secretary Ross today summarizing the efforts that the Commerce Department has made to address the backlog and improve the process, and I ask unanimous consent to place this document on the record. Without objection, so ordered. “I believe the Commerce Department is moving to improve the exclusion process, but much more is needed. The goal of this hearing is to be constructive in partnering with the Commerce Department to streamline the process and achieve the goal of prompt and fair resolution of all exclusion requests. “Members of this Committee have been actively engaged in providing advice since before the tariffs took effect in March. The improvements that Commerce has made so far were, at least in part, results of the efforts by Members of this Committee, particularly Rep. Walorski, and countless constituents. For example, Commerce agreed to implement an exclusion process in the first place after many Members advised them to do so. It later agreed to provide some retroactive relief. However, despite these efforts, the exclusion process is bogged down in red tape and is moving far too slowly. “Four months have passed since the steel and aluminum tariffs were imposed, and less than 700 out of the 27,000 requests have resulted in determinations by the Commerce Department, with only 266 accepted and 421 denied. The problem is not lack of resources. The fact is that the process is burdensome, unwieldy, and inefficient. “There are a variety of improvements that Commerce can and should make immediately so that the exclusion process works. I will highlight just a few, and I look forward to hearing more from our witnesses. “One common-sense solution would be to streamline the process both at the beginning and the end. Allowing trade associations to apply would prevent duplicative applications and save time and money for both the U.S. company that needs the exclusion and the Commerce Department that must review all requests. For the same reason, at the end of the process, when an exclusion is granted, it should be available to any U.S. company. “Both of these streamlining suggestions would particularly benefit small businesses and manufacturers that are at a disadvantage by having fewer resources to fill out these complicated exclusion forms and hire outside lawyers. We don’t want a situation in which larger companies with more resources can use the product exclusion process to gain an advantage over smaller firms. “In addition, Commerce has not provided these companies whose petitions have been denied an opportunity to refute objections or appeal the decision even if an objection contains clearly incorrect information. Commerce should institute a brief but fair rebuttal process for these American businesses to ensure a robust record on which we can rely and not pick winners and losers arbitrarily. And if there are no objections, the petition should be automatically granted. “Moreover, Commerce should also allow our companies to use the product exclusion process for products coming from countries facing hard quotas like Argentina, Brazil, and South Korea. “These are only a few of the changes that can and should be made to make the exclusion process more fair and efficient. The last thing we need is an unnecessarily cumbersome process that acts as a new bureaucracy. “Last year’s historic passage of tax reform has energized the economy and improved the spirits of American manufactures and businesses. However, overly broad tariffs can slow this momentum, and a cumbersome exclusion process does not provide the necessary relief to affected U.S. companies. It creates uncertainty in the economy, postponing investment and hindering job growth.”
07.18.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, led today’s hearing on “The Effects of Tariffs on U.S. Agriculture and Rural Communities.” The hearing focused on the effects on American agriculture and rural communities of both U.S. tariffs imposed under Sections 232 and 301 as well as retaliation imposed by other countries against U.S. exports. To watch the hearing in full, click HERE. Chairman Reichert’s prepared opening remarks:“Good afternoon. The Subcommittee will come to order. Welcome to the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on the effects of tariffs on U.S. agriculture and rural communities. Before hearing from our witnesses, I’d like to make a few points. “As many of you know, U.S. farmers, ranchers, and growers right now are caught in the middle of international crossfire. First, they are hurt because products, such as equipment, chemicals, and fertilizer, which they need to run lean and competitive agriculture operations have been included on the Administration’s Section 301 list, as well as the steel and aluminum they need. And then, adding insult to injury, they are the first to face retaliatory tariffs from across the globe as countries react to U.S. trade policy decisions. In fact, U.S. agriculture is now facing retaliatory tariffs from the EU, China, Mexico, Canada, Turkey, Russia, and India. Now, I know that the Administration did not intend for U.S. agriculture to be hurt, but the damage is entirely predictable. As some of you know well, low commodity prices have made the last several years very challenging for many American farmers. And what we’re hearing from farmers, ranchers, producers, and fisherman in my home state of Washington, and many other states across the country, is that U.S. agriculture just isn’t in a healthy place. “Most of our agriculture producers today rely heavily on export markets, and unfortunately, many of these farmers and producers are now facing the loss of not just one of their top international export markets, but their top 2, 3, and 4 export markets – all at once. They are facing severe and devastating uncertainty – and that goes right to their profitability. “Now, it’s important to acknowledge that the President is absolutely correct that we need to stand up to China’s unfair and predatory trade practices, including overcapacity in steel and aluminum, IP theft and other Chinese policies that endanger the innovative technologies developed by U.S. companies. As we take on China, though, we must take into account the effects on U.S. agriculture, like the examples we’ll hear today. “I’ve heard heart-wrenching stories, in some cases of farmers and families already scrambling to make ends meet, who are forced to make difficult decisions to cope with the uncertainty caused by tariffs. They don’t know what and how much they should plant. They are having trouble getting financing, and they are forced to put expansion plans on hold. Entire rural communities are affected when farmers are struggling – their suppliers and workers, and even banks, restaurants, and school districts. “As we learn about the challenges that many people in the agriculture sector are facing, it’s critical to remember that many family farmers have invested all they have in their farms, their orchards, or their ranches – and sometimes these have been in their families for generations. This is serious business – it is their livelihood. And even worse, our small farmers and producers are suffering the most, because they already are running on tight margins, without the economies of scale that the larger producers can benefit from. “In my home state of Washington, one winery has already lost $500,000 in export sales after China imposed a tariff in retaliation for the Section 232 tariffs – their shipments dropped by 50 percent in the second quarter alone. In another sector, USDA reported that China canceled nearly $140 million in soybean contracts at the end of June. And as you will hear in a few minutes from our witness from Washington State, cherry producers are really feeling the pinch during their short cherry season, as they face an additional 25 percent tariff in China, their top export market. “Today we’ll hear from a broad range of American agriculture producers about the real-world impact of increased tariffs. I’m eager to hear from our witnesses and learn how these tariffs are affecting their farms, families, and communities. Our hearing will focus on both U.S. tariff increases related to the Section 232 action on steel and aluminum and the Section 301 tariffs on China as well as retaliatory tariffs from around the world. “I look forward to learning from our excellent panel of witnesses today as we all continue to engage with the President regarding how to reach a durable solution to the challenging trade agenda. I, for one, have urged the President to restore the exemptions from steel and aluminum tariffs for Mexico and Canada – two of America’s most trusted allies that are also incredibly important markets for our agricultural exports. At the same time, I am encouraging the President to push forward with our negotiations with our other international trading partners, including with China, to find a solution that evens the playing field for American workers, manufacturers, service providers, and farmers, while at the same time making sure that farmers don’t become collateral damage. We also cannot lose sight of the cost of inaction when it comes to new markets. When our trading partners move forward and make agreements without us, our farmers, workers, and business fall behind.”
07.17.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced today that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing entitled “Product Exclusion Process for Section 232 Tariffs on Steel and Aluminum.” The hearing will address the experiences of U.S. companies navigating the process for requesting product exclusions from Section 232 tariffs and quotas on steel and aluminum. The hearing will take place on Tuesday, July 24, 2018, in 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 2:00 PM. “In combating unfair trade practices, I’ve always advocated for a tough but targeted approach that addresses unfair trade while avoiding harm to U.S. workers, businesses, and consumers. I’m concerned that the broken Section 232 product exclusion process has created more red tape and uncertainty for American companies rather than fixing the problems created by broad steel and aluminum tariffs that apply even to our closest allies. Our witnesses will describe the damage they are experiencing firsthand as they struggle through this cumbersome product exclusion process. We owe it to our companies and workers to find effective solutions to streamline and improve this burdensome process and ease the pain created by these tariffs.”
07.17.2018	“As investigations have proven, Russia interfered in our elections. This foreign attack on our democratic process threatens the very foundation of America. Those who have perpetrated interference in our elections will be held accountable. This is the message the President should deliver to Russia.”
07.11.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced today that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing entitled “The Effects of Tariffs on U.S. Agriculture and Rural Communities.” The hearing will address the effects on American agriculture and rural communities of both U.S. tariffs imposed under Sections 232 and 301 as well as retaliation imposed by other countries against U.S. exports. The hearing will take place on Wednesday, July 18, 2018, in 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 2:00 PM. Chairman Reichert said: “When the United States uses trade enforcement tools such as tariffs, it should do so in a way that does not harm American farmers, consumers, workers, and manufacturers, either through the negative effects of the tariffs themselves or by attracting retaliation by other countries that destroys our ability to sell high-quality American-made goods and services around the globe. Farmers, growers, and ranchers in my home state of Washington and around the country are significantly hurt because products that they are forced to import to stay competitive — such as agriculture equipment, chemicals, steel, and aluminum – are now prohibitively expensive. Adding insult to injury, these same farmers, growers, and ranchers are experiencing severe retaliation through prohibitive tariffs and other measures by their major customers including China, Canada, Mexico, and the EU. This hearing will provide an important opportunity to discuss both the direct and indirect negative effects of the U.S. Section 232 and 301 tariffs on America’s farmers as well as the retaliation they are now experiencing. It will also be an opportunity to discuss the effects on the rural communities that depend on a vibrant agriculture sector. The agricultural economy is unquestionably dependent on trade, and so it is vital that we get this right – the livelihood of our rural communities depends on it.”
07.11.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement regarding yesterday's announcement of Section 301 action by the Trump Administration toward China. “American farmers, workers, and consumers are already hurting because of the placement of tariffs on certain imports from China. I strongly disagree with the Administration’s plan to place tariffs on additional goods, resulting in higher prices here at home for American families and less sales abroad for American workers and farmers as markets are closed to American-made goods through retaliation. I am committed to working with the Administration to address China’s theft of American technology and intellectual property in a way that targets the problem and does not further harm communities across America."
07.03.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Speaker Paul Ryan announced that Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) was selected to serve on the conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). In this role, Rep. Reichert will work with other lawmakers from the House and Senate to negotiate and come to an agreement on legislation to authorize funding for our military. After hearing news of his appointment, Rep. Reichert made the following statement: “I am honored to be appointed to the bipartisan conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act. I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues to finalize legislation that gives our troops a well-deserved pay raise, increases resources to strengthen our military forces, and invests in critical defense capabilities. I am proud to serve on this committee and work towards a final bill that further shows our support for our service men and women.”
07.03.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) was chosen as the winner for the first-ever “Life in Congress” Workplace Environment Award as part of the Congressional Management Foundation’s (CMF) Democracy Awards. This award highlights offices that have both formal policies and informal cultures that exhibit core office values and support the professional development of their staffs. “Throughout my time in public service, my number one priority has always been to serve my constituents to the best of my ability. To receive this award recognizing this commitment is a true honor,” Rep. Reichert said. “My office’s established values of leadership, integrity, service, and teamwork are what has always set my team apart. I could not have received this award without them, and we will continue this service throughout my time in Congress.” “As a Democracy Award winner, Rep. Reichert’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. Reichert has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents in Washington. Rep. Reichert and his staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for his colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work.” A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and staff selected the winners in a blind review process where the name of the Member was redacted from the review material submitted by each congressional office. The congressional offices nominated themselves for the award and provided supporting documents to CMF. The review committee then conducted more than 70 interviews and evaluated additional supporting material to select 20 finalists. All of the winners and finalists will be honored at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. on July 13. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with Member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress. For more information, please visit www.CongressFoundation.org.
06.28.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill to provide funding for the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2019. Rep. Reichert released the following statement after the vote: “As threats continue to change and grow around the world, we must support our military and recognize the sacrifices our service men and women make every day. Today, my colleagues and I passed a bipartisan bill to provide this support by funding important programs within the Department of Defense and ensuring our service members have the tools they need to keep all of us safe,” Rep. Reichert said. “This bill gives our troops a much-deserved pay raise; allows for the purchase of needed equipment; and funds our operational needs and support for America’s allies, a vital piece of the global fight against terrorism. I am proud the House passed this bill to provide our troops and their families with the necessary resources and care they have earned and deserve.”
06.27.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after voting for the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (H.R. 6136). The bill failed to pass the House of Representatives by a vote of 121-301. “I have been a long-time advocate for strengthening our border security, finding a permanent solution for the DACA population, and reforming our broken immigration system. I supported the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act because it ensures families cannot be separated at the border, takes steps to update our immigration system, and protects our DACA youth. These children are our friends, neighbors, peers, colleagues, spouses, and honored members of the military, and they deserve the permanent opportunity to continue to call America home. Today, we had a chance to provide this hope, and I am disappointed we didn’t. This was a missed opportunity to update a system that has for decades held our communities back. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to finish this important work and reform our immigration system, giving families and businesses the certainty they have long deserved.”
06.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after President Trump announced that the Administration will rely on the Congressional legislative process as the basis for action against foreign investment that affects U.S. technology by revamping the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS): “With the goal of protecting against the theft of American technology by way of investment or acquisition, both the House and Senate have each passed legislation to update the CFIUS process to prevent this threat. I am glad the President shares this goal and welcome the news that he will use the work done by Congress to strengthen and modernize the CFIUS process to effectively combat the theft of our technology.”
06.25.2018	Washington, DC - This evening, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Adam Smith (D-WA) spoke on the House floor in support of their legislation, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Act (H.R. 1791). Shortly after, the House of Representatives passed the bill unanimously. “In my home state of Washington, we know well how spectacular the Mountains to Sound Greenway is and why this area is so deserving of this National Heritage Area designation,” said Rep. Reichert. “Today’s vote confirms this area is special to people from all across the country and globe who come to Washington State eager to experience its lush forests and rugged mountains. After years of working on this designation with my colleague, Representative Smith, I am proud to see this bipartisan legislation overwhelmingly pass the House. Now, I urge the Senate to take up this important legislation, so that the Mountains to Sound Greenway receives the full recognition it deserves.”“The passage of the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Act, the first such designation in the Pacific Northwest, reflects the sustainable relationship between Washington state residents and nature in the Puget Sound Region,” Rep. Smith said. “The Mountains to Sound Greenway will help preserve and promote the area’s scenery, resources and history for future generations. I thank Congressman Reichert for his stalwart leadership, the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust for their tireless advocacy, and the engaged community members that made it possible for us to join together in preserving this natural treasure.” This legislation was first introduced by Representatives Reichert and Smith in the 113th Congress as H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. In November of 2014, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill, but the full House never considered it. After receiving feedback over the past four years, Reps. Reichert and Smith reintroduced an improved and strengthened bill in March of 2017. This new bill (H.R. 1791) includes important protections for individual rights, private property owners, and tribal communities. It has the support of over 6,000 individuals and groups from government agencies and officials, businesses, outdoor recreation groups, and conservation and heritage organizations, including the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and Outdoor Alliance. In June, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill."The Greenway is a model for working cooperatively to conserve the environment while supporting a strong economy,” said Jon Hoekstra, Executive Director of the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust. “We’re ecstatic that Congressman Reichert and Congressman Smith have succeeded in ushering this bipartisan bill to passage in the House. With Senators Cantwell and Murray as champions in the Senate, our region will soon reap the benefits of this innovative designation."Background National Heritage Areas are congressionally designated partnerships between the National Park Service, states, and local communities through which the Park Service supports local and state efforts to preserve natural resources and promote tourism. National Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System. No federal regulations are imposed, and no private land is affected or acquired. Rep. Reichert’s legislation does not force private property owners to participate in any activity or provide public access on their land; it does not affect land use planning; and it does not alter, modify or extinguish treaty rights, water rights, or limit the authority of the state to manage fish and wildlife, including hunting and fishing regulations. Heritage Area designations are eligible for federal grants and this designation can help draw financial contributions from state, local, and private sources. On average, each Heritage Area generates about $263 million in economic activity and supports about 3,000 jobs, primarily through tourism and visitor spending.
06.22.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the United States House of Representatives voted on immigration legislation, the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). Following the vote, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “Reform of our immigration system must provide certainty for children, families, and communities. That is why I could not support the Securing America’s Future Act. The bill did not do enough to ensure families are kept together at the border nor did it provide a permanent solution for the DACA population. And while this bill included provisions to address our outdated and unreliable agricultural guest worker program, more changes are needed. I will continue to work with my colleagues on legislation that ensures our agricultural guest worker program is reliable and workable. This vote was only the first of several that will seek to address flaws within our immigration system. Throughout this process, I remain committed to updating and reforming our immigration system, so that it protects children and families and meets the needs of businesses and workers.”
06.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (H.R. 2), or the 2018 Farm Bill. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the vote: "With over 35,900 farms and 164,000 jobs in agriculture and food processing in Washington State, the agriculture sector is a vital piece of Washington’s economy that requires certainty to thrive. Today, I voted for the Farm Bill because it provides this long-term certainty for our farmers, consumers, and communities. The bill also provides important resources for agricultural research and the conservation of our natural resources that support the work of farmers across the state. But I remain deeply concerned about the changes this bill makes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and what impact these changes will have on families who rely on this program. As this bill moves through Congress, I will continue to advocate for a final bill that ensures those who need SNAP to get back on their feet are able to receive the support they need."
06.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, during a markup of seven bills in the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) spoke in support of his legislation, the Tribal Social Security Fairness Act (H.R. 6124). The bill ensures tribal governments have the opportunity to opt into Social Security just as state and local governments do. The bill passed out of Committee by unanimous consent, and is cosponsored by fellow Washington delegation members, Reps. DelBene and Kilmer. Rep. Reichert's prepared remarks for the markup:“Thank you, Chairman Brady. I am proud to speak today on my bill, the Tribal Social Security Fairness Act of 2018, that supports our communities’ tribal leaders and their fair access to Social Security benefits. It does so by ensuring that all tribal governments across the country have the same opportunity to opt into Social Security that state and local governments do. This way tribal leaders can participate in the Social Security program that so many others rely on. “In my home state of Washington alone, many tribal leaders had been paying into Social Security with the expectation of future benefits. However, a Social Security Administration policy ruling issued in 2006 prevented them from continuing to pay into the program and have their earnings count toward future benefits. “This problem was brought to my attention a few years ago when I met with Virginia Cross, Chair of the Muckleshoot Tribal Council. After this meeting, we discovered other tribal leaders in Washington faced the same challenge, including the Snoqualmie. Hearing these examples, it just didn’t seem fair that those who wanted to pay into the system couldn’t. After working with Ways and Means Committee staff on the issue, we discovered that this was a nationwide problem. That is when my staff and I went to work on a solution. “Thanks to the dedicated advocacy of the Muckleshoot and Snoqualmie tribes and the leadership of fellow Washingtonians, Reps. DelBene and Kilmer, as well as Rep. Schweikert on this Committee and Rep. Cole, we were able to find a bipartisan, comprehensive solution to this problem. I would also like to thank Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Neal and their staff for all of their hard work on this important bill. “I urge my colleagues to join me today in righting this wrong, so our tribal leaders can receive the Social Security benefits that they deserve.”Background: When Social Security was created in 1935, state and local government employees were excluded from receiving Social Security coverage. The Social Security Amendments of 1950 gave states the option to extend Social Security coverage to certain state and local government employees. However, unlike state and local governments, Tribal Councils do not have the option to participate in Social Security under current law. This bill makes the needed technical fix so tribal nations can voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Social Security Administration (SSA) to allow their elected leaders to participate in Social Security. Additional cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Cole (R-OK), Schweikert (R-AZ), Gallego (D-AZ), and O’Halleran (D-AZ).
06.20.2018	"I disagree with the President - separating young children from their loving parents is wrong. As a cop, I had to step in and remove children from their unsafe homes. I have seen it, I have done it, and it was unforgettable. And when I took those actions, it was to keep a child safe. I call on the President to put a stop to these policies at the border immediately; we must keep these families together."
06.18.2018	“During my time in law enforcement, I saw children separated from their parents, and that image is something that I will never forget. As we enforce our laws and secure our border, we should protect and not punish children. Both are important to the security of our nation and communities.”
06.15.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) today released the following statement regarding the announcement from the United States Trade Representative (USTR) of the Administration's intent to levy tariffs against certain imports from China. "I disagree with placing tariffs on certain imports from China because Americans will bear the brunt instead of China. Our families and businesses lose because tariffs will increase prices, and our farmers and workers lose because they cannot sell their high-quality products around the world when markets are closed to them through retaliation. I am committed to working with the Administration to target China’s theft of American technology and intellectual property while also protecting Washington’s trade-dependent economy."
06.14.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5788, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act, bipartisan legislation to prevent the shipment of synthetic opioids into the United States through the international mail system, by a vote of 353-52. Upon passage, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI), Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Rep. John Faso (R-NY) released the following statements: “With rising numbers of opioid-related deaths in Washington State and throughout the country, we must address this growing crisis that leaves devastation in its path," said Chairman Reichert. “Today, I am proud to stand up for the health and safety of our communities and families by supporting the STOP Act. This bipartisan legislation helps protect the American people by securing the international mail system and closing a loophole that has allowed illicit synthetic opioids to enter our country with alarming ease. I look forward to seeing this important legislation passed quickly in the Senate and signed into law, shielding families from the harm caused by the flow of illicit opioids into the U.S."“We must stop synthetic opioids—like fentanyl—from reaching our communities,” said Chairman Brady. “Today’s passage of the STOP Act puts us a significant step closer to closing the border to international criminals trying to ship this contraband into the United States through the mail. Under the bipartisan leadership in the House by Rep. Bishop, Rep. Faso, Chairman Reichert, and Rep. Pascrell, the STOP Act is part of Congress’ unprecedented efforts to fight the opioid epidemic in America and keep our families, friends, and neighbors safe. Led by Senator Portman and Senator Klobuchar, I look forward to swift passage in the Senate.”“Countless lives have been cut short in Michigan as a result of this devastating epidemic. In 2016 alone, opioids claimed the lives of more than 2,000 Michiganders,” said Rep. Bishop. “I was astounded to learn that current law treats packages coming in through private carriers like FedEx and UPS differently than it does shipments through the United States Postal Service (USPS), and as a result, drug traffickers can readily ship synthetic opioids into our country through the USPS. Making matters worse, these synthetic opioids can be 50 to 500 times more potent than the typical street dose of heroin. Now that we know how these poisons are entering our communities, we have a moral obligation to close this loophole. I’m glad today the House passed the STOP Act to do just that, and I urge the Senate to expeditiously take up this important bill.”“In 2016, 2,056 people lost their lives to the opioid scourge in my home state. That number may surpass 3,000 this year. Many synthetic opioids reach our homes through the mail, making them difficult to detect. Given the astronomical volume of international shipments the Postal Service processes, more data is needed to catch synthetic opioids at ports of entry before they enter our country,” said Rep. Pascrell. “This legislation will plug gaping loopholes exploited by drug traffickers. The STOP Act will ensure the Postal Service and our law enforcement partners have the tools they need to stem the flood of opioids into our cities and towns. At the same time, this legislation has been carefully tailored to ensure that our USPS and Customs partners have adequate time and protections to bring this plan to fruition. They deserve no less.”"This legislation is the result of input and compromise from members of both parties in the House and Senate," said Rep. Faso. "I'm encouraged that we came together to craft a real solution to this problem that is realistic, implementable, and effective. This is a big step in our fight to rid our communities of deadly synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl."CLICK HERE to read the AINS.CLICK HERE to read the perfecting amendment.CLICK HERE to read the summary.CLICK HERE to read the press release on the bipartisan, bicameral agreement reached on the STOP Act.
06.11.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress from Washington State urging the United States Trade Representative (USTR), Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to address retaliation by our trading partners in response to the Administration’s placement of tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The letter highlights the negative impact these retaliatory actions will have on Washington’s economy and asks Ambassador Lighthizer to negotiate a solution that shields Washington’s exporters. Members of Congress also signing the letter include Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rogers (WA-05), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), and Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10).“As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum,” the members wrote. “The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers.” To see the letter sent to Ambassador Lighthizer, CLICK HERE. The text of the letter can also be found below. The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th St, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer, As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers. On April 2nd, China responded to the Section 232 tariffs with a 15 percent tariff on a number of items, including apples, pears, cherries, and wine. For Pacific Northwest cherries, China is the number one export destination, with more than ten percent of last year’s crop valued at approximately $130 million having been shipped to China. Last season, China was the fifth largest market for apples, worth approximately $45-50 million, and it continues to be an important market for pears as well. If these tariffs remain in place, the financial impact to Washington’s growers will be very harmful, especially for cherries as the price would be depressed across the board as shippers seek alternative markets for such significant volume. This challenge is growing as additional trading partners take actions to restrict access to export markets, leaving our exporters with fewer markets for their high-quality agricultural products. On May 28th, India notified the World Trade Organization that it plans before June 21st to raise its tariff on apples from the already very high level of 50 percent to 80 percent. India describes this increased tariff as retaliation for the U.S. Section 232 tariffs on aluminum and steel. In our view, India, like China and other countries, is abusing WTO rules by unilaterally retaliating in this way without authorization, and we urge you to confront such abuses. As the second largest market-to-date this season, an eighty percent tariff on apples entering India would have a grave impact on Washington’s growers. For this season, more than 7.7 million boxes – valued at more than $118.3 million – have been shipped to India. We understand that around one million cartons of apples are currently on container ships en route to India. It is worth noting that this action will have a disproportionately high impact on the growers of Red Delicious – which has composed nearly 90 percent of Washington’s apple exports to India this season. India is the number one market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples this season. With so much at stake, we urge the Administration to make it a priority to prevent this additional thirty percent tariff from going into effect. On June 5th, in response to the Administration’s decision to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on several key allies, including Mexico, Mexico announced it will impose tariffs on a range of U.S. agricultural products, including potatoes and apples. Last year, Washington State potato growers exported over $37 million in frozen potatoes to Mexico. And as the top export destination for apples, valued at approximately $215 million last season, Mexico is currently the second largest market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples. In fact, this season, Washington’s apple growers have shipped over 10 million cartons of apples to Mexico, making up 27 percent of apple exports. As our trading partners take steps to restrict their markets to American exports, we urge the Administration to address these retaliatory actions that are harming our communities, constituencies, and local economies. Sincerely,
06.08.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House and Senate released the new bipartisan, bicameral agreement on the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act, legislation to help prevent the shipment of synthetic opioids into the United States through the international mail system. House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI), Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Rep. John Faso (R-NY) released the following statements: “Today, we are advancing strong legislation to secure the international mail to protect the American people from fetanyl, a dangerous synthetic opioid that has devastated families and is still all too easily shipped into our country,” said Chairman Reichert. “This legislation builds upon the work I have been proud to do with Chairman Brady and my colleagues, including Rep. Mike Bishop, on the Ways and Means Committee. I look forward to its consideration by the full House.”“The STOP Act, as amended, will secure the international mail and protect Americans from opioids and other contraband entering this country by imposing tough new requirements on the U.S. Postal Service and Customs and Border Protection,” Chairman Brady said. “I am proud of the hard work and leadership by Rep. Mike Bishop and also Chairman Dave Reichert, Rep. John Faso, and Sen. Rob Portman to deliver a hard-hitting solution to this very serious problem. The Ways and Means Committee passed legislation several weeks ago with broad bipartisan support, and we have been working since then to further strengthen the bill to ensure that our government is held accountable. I look forward to moving this bill to the floor quickly.” “Today brings us one step closer to making the bipartisan STOP Act the law of the land,” said Rep. Bishop. “This common-sense legislation will close loopholes in the international mail system currently being exploited by drug traffickers to ship dangerous synthetic opioids, like fentanyl, across our borders. I’m grateful to Sens. Portman and Klobuchar for their tireless efforts on this legislation, along with Congressman Pascrell, to ensure our law enforcement has all of the tools they need to keep this poison out of the hands of our children and out of our communities.” “The STOP Act is critical to our efforts to combat the wave of opioid addiction and overdose deaths sweeping the country,” said Sen. Portman. “It will require the Postal Service to provide advance electronic data on 100 percent of the packages entering the United States and provide law enforcement with the information they need to help stop the shipment of deadly synthetic drugs like fentanyl into our communities. I’d like to thank Senator Klobuchar, Chairman Brady and Reps. Bishop, Reichert, Pascrell and Faso for their efforts on this bill and to combat this opioid crisis. I’m looking forward to moving this bill forward in the Senate in the coming weeks and working with my colleagues in the House, Senate, and the administration to ensure that it gets signed into law.” “Dangerous synthetic drugs that find their way into our communities from overseas through the postal system continue to claim the lives of teenagers and adults in Minnesota and across the country,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “In the face of these tragedies, I introduced the STOP Act with Senator Portman to step up efforts to help stop these synthetic drugs from coming across our borders from foreign countries in the first place. This legislation is a strong step toward accomplishing that goal.”“Our communities are being devastated by synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil that are hundreds of times more potent than heroin and are fueling the opioid crisis,” said Rep. Faso. “A large portion of these dangerous synthetic drugs come into the country through our postal system and this must stop. The STOP Act is part of the solution and will help crack down on illegal shipments by giving more tools to our customs and border control officers. I thank Chairmen Brady and Reichert, as well as my colleague Rep. Bishop, for their hard work in negotiating this legislation.”
06.07.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after his vote on the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act (H.R. 3). “Tonight, I voted to protect the American people by addressing America’s spending problem. By taking back unspent and unnecessary funds, we can work toward putting our country on a responsible path and focus on reducing our deficit.” H.R. 3 does not make any changes to the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus appropriations bill that passed earlier this year.
06.07.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined a bipartisan meeting of Ways and Means Committee Members with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to discuss the Administration’s trade agenda and recent decisions on the Section 232 and 301 tariffs. “With 40% of jobs tied to trade in Washington State, I shared with Ambassador Lighthizer some real examples of the impact decisions made in D.C. have on families and businesses in my home state. Whether it is uncertainty surrounding NAFTA or the placement of tariffs on fairly-traded steel and aluminum, my constituents are concerned about what this means for them. I urged Ambassador Lighthizer to push forward on an updated NAFTA that provides certainty and requires our trading partners to meet strong and ambitious obligations that are fully enforceable. In addition, I expressed my disagreement with the placement of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from some of our closest allies. This hurts American manufacturers, consumers, and workers by increasing costs, and it exposes our exporters to retaliation from our trading partners. I look forward to continued work with the Administration to modernize NAFTA, to negotiate solutions to the tariffs on steel and aluminum with our key allies, and to fix the product exclusion process.”
05.31.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement regarding the Administration's decision to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada, Mexico, and the European Union. "Addressing China’s unfair trade practices in steel and aluminum requires that we work in partnership with our close allies, including Canada, Mexico, and the European Union. The placement of tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum from these key allies not only runs counter to our global efforts and harms our trade relationships, but also hurts American businesses, workers, and consumers who rely on these imports. I urge the Administration to continue the exemptions while working to conclude negotiations as quickly as possible with these close allies for a durable solution. It is also critical that the Administration improve the product exclusion process to ensure it is effective and transparent and gives U.S. consumers and companies access to steel and aluminum products that are not available domestically. The end result must be that Washington’s trade-dependent economy and its businesses and workers are shielded from retaliation and from tariffs on fairly-traded products."
05.25.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Committee Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement regarding the Administration's decision to request the establishment of a World Trade Organization (WTO) panel challenging Canada's unfair restrictions on the sale of U.S. wine. “Around the world, consumers are demanding American-produced wine, growing our exports and supporting jobs in my home state of Washington. Yet our producers face discriminatory measures that put them at a competitive disadvantage when competing in other markets. Today, the Administration is taking action by challenging unfair regulations in the Canadian province of British Columbia that block imported wines from being sold on grocery store shelves to the detriment of Canadian consumers and U.S. producers. Thank you to Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for defending American wine producers and giving them a chance to compete on a level playing field.” Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) added:“I applaud President Trump’s decision today to challenge Canada’s unfair regulations that blatantly discriminate against one the most competitive wine producers in the world – the United States. I am alarmed by Canada’s continued disregard for WTO rules—which comes at the expense of American agriculture—and I join the Administration in calling for Canada to live up to its commitments. Today’s action further highlights the importance of ensuring that our trade agreements are fully enforceable through binding dispute settlement.”
05.24.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in support of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. “Today, the House passed bipartisan legislation to give our troops a well-deserved pay raise, increase resources to strengthen our military forces, and invest in critical defense capabilities. I am proud to show my support for our service men and women by voting for this bill to ensure they have what they need to do their jobs and keep us safe. While we face increasing uncertainty around the world, our men and women in the Armed Forces must have the protection and tools necessary to keep our nation safe and secure.”
05.21.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement on the continuation of NAFTA negotiations: “With over 248,000 jobs in Washington State supported by trade with Canada and Mexico, Washington’s farmers, workers, and businesses have relied on NAFTA for decades. And they stand to benefit from an improved and modernized NAFTA that provides certainty and requires our trading partners to meet strong and ambitious obligations that are fully enforceable. It is my hope that the United States, Canada, and Mexico continue working toward an agreement regardless of when it might come before Congress. My focus remains on the substance of the agreement and how it will impact my constituents.”
05.18.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (H.R. 2), or the 2018 Farm Bill. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: "The certainty provided by a long-term reauthorization of the Farm Bill is key to the success of American farmers both at home and abroad. I voted for this bill because it would have extended programs vital to the operation of community food banks, the conservation of our natural resources, and agricultural research that allows the over 35,000 farms in Washington State to thrive. While this bill would have provided these guarantees to support farmers, consumers, and families, it was not perfect. In particular, I am concerned about the implications of some of the changes made to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in the bill. As Congress continues to develop a 2018 Farm Bill, I will advocate for an effective SNAP program that ensures those in our communities who need help getting back on their feet and providing for their families are able to receive it."
05.17.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman and former Sheriff of King County, Dave Reichert (R-WA), released the following statement during the 55th Annual National Police Week: “As this is my last National Police Week in Congress, I am proud to see the work my colleagues and I were able to accomplish this week to honor and show our support for our law enforcement officers and their families. We passed several important pieces of legislation that reflect how much we appreciate the men and women who protect our communities every day,” Rep. Reichert said.“I was grateful for the opportunity to lead my colleagues in a moment of silence on the House floor and to speak about how thankful I am for the great sacrifice law enforcement officers make daily in their jobs. I was also truly honored to join those from across the country who came to Washington, DC this week as a distinguished guest at the National Peace Officer’s Memorial Day Service. Having served in law enforcement for 33 years it has been a great privilege to honor and recognize our law enforcement officers during National Police Week during my fourteen years in Congress, and I hope my Congressional colleagues will continue this tradition in the years to come.” This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed several pieces of legislation that support the work of our law enforcement officers. H.Res.285 encourages the President and Congress to empower the creation of police and community alliances designed to enhance and improve communication and collaboration between members of the law enforcement community and the public they serve. The Justice Served Act (H.R. 4854) increases resources for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program that works to reduce the backlog of violent crime cases involving suspects identified through DNA evidence. Lastly, the Lieutenant Osvaldo Albarati Correctional Officer Self-Protection Act (H.R. 613) gives correctional officers permission to store and carry a firearm on prison premises. Rep. Reichert, as Co-Chair of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, has been a proud cosponsor of all three pieces of legislation that were passed this week.BACKGROUND President John F. Kennedy designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day in 1962, and the week of May 15th has become National Police Week honoring all of those who have served in law enforcement. During this time, police officers from all over the nation come together in Washington, D.C., to pay tribute to their fellow officers who gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 3,000 people have been remembered. This year, among the 360 names to be inscribed on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, two from Washington State were honored: - Chief of Police Randall Scot Gibson – Kalama Police Department – EOW January 10, 2017 - Chief Deputy Fred Hickson – Mason County Sheriff’s Office – EOW June 29, 1944
05.17.2018	Washington, DC - Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and other Ways and Means Committee members in a meeting yesterday with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He. Following the meeting, Chairman Reichert released the following statement: “With over $18 billion in exports from Washington State to China each year, Washington’s workers and businesses rely on a strong and fair trade relationship with China. In the meeting my colleagues and I encouraged Vice Premier Liu to continue discussions with Congress and the Administration to strengthen and improve trade relations between our two countries by addressing the trade barriers faced by American exporters and China’s theft of intellectual property from American businesses and workers. I also encouraged the Vice Premier to work with us to halt the flow of synthetic opioids to the United States through the international mail. I appreciate this opportunity to meet with the Vice Premier and look forward to continued productive engagement.”
05.16.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House Ways and Means Committee approved seven opioid bills, including the Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act of 2018 (H.R. 5788). This legislation will improve the detection of synthetic opioids that are transported through the international mail system and help prevent them from entering the United States. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) led a Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade hearing on this legislation in late April where the Subcommittee heard from representatives of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the U.S. Postal Service (USPS). Following successful Committee passage of this legislation, Rep. Reichert released the following statement:“In Washington, there has been a 33% increase in opioid-related deaths over the past few years, which exceeds the growth in our state’s population. We can and must do more to address the growing problem of our country’s opioid epidemic,” said Rep. Reichert.“Today’s Committee passage of these bills puts us on this path. As we heard in our hearing on this issue, opioids entering the U.S. through international mail is a serious problem that we must address, and we must do more to detect and stop these shipments. I am proud of the Committee’s work on a bipartisan solution, the Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act, and look forward to moving to consideration by the full House.” To see Rep. Reichert’s remarks at the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on “The Opioid Crisis: Stopping the Flow of Synthetic Opioids in the International Mail System,” CLICK HERE. The Committee also approved the Combating Opioid Abuse for Care in Hospitals (COACH) Act (H.R. 5774), the Providing Reliable Options for Patients and Educational Resources (PROPER) Act (H.R. 5775), the Medicare and Opioid Safe Treatment (MOST) Act (H.R. 5776), the Preventing Addiction for Susceptible Seniors (PASS) Act (H.R. 5773), the Stop Excessive Narcotics in our Retirement (SENIOR) Communities Protection Act (H.R. 5676), and the Expanding Oversight of Opioid Prescribing and Payment Act (H.R. 5723).
05.15.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement after the World Trade Organization (WTO) released a report finding that the European Union (EU) violated WTO rules in providing illegal subsidies to Airbus worth billions of dollars. “American workers and businesses always win when the competition is fair. Today’s announcement confirms that the EU has not been playing by the rules by continuing to provide illegal subsidies worth billions of dollars to Airbus at a cost to American aerospace workers and businesses. This victory supports the work of aerospace company employees across my home state of Washington, including the over 70,000 Boeing employees in the state. I applaud the work of Ambassador Lighthizer and his team at USTR for their dedication to these workers and to holding the EU accountable. Our trading partners need to know that we will enforce their commitments and make sure that they follow the rules.” Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) added:“I applaud the Trump administration and USTR's legal team for winning one of the largest trade disputes in modern history. For decades, the EU has flouted its WTO commitments at the expense of American aerospace workers and companies. That ends today. “These findings demonstrate the importance of having fully enforceable commitments — like binding dispute settlement procedures — in all of our trade agreements. Our workers and companies are the best in the world, and when we have recourse to make sure our trading partners play by the rules, America wins.”
05.11.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the Administration’s announcement on prescription drug prices: “Americans across the country rely on prescription medications for their health, but sometimes struggle to afford the drugs they need. I am glad the Administration recognizes this problem and is proposing solutions. I will be closely reviewing the Administration’s proposals and working with my colleagues in Congress to make our health care system more accessible and affordable, increase choice, and ensure patients are the top priority.”
05.08.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after today's announcement regarding the Iran nuclear deal: “I have disagreed with the Iran nuclear deal since the beginning. This deal gave Iran the benefit of the doubt, and Iran’s criminal actions since the deal was signed prove that we must do better. As additional sanctions are put in place, we must continue to work with our allies to form an agreement that addresses not just Iran’s nuclear capabilities, but all of their destabilizing activities that impact our security and the security of our allies. I agree that holding Iran accountable, in the near-term and the long-term, is non-negotiable. It is vital we work toward that goal.”
05.08.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed unanimously the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 1791). Bill authors, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Adam Smith (D-WA) applauded this action. “In Washington State, we know full well that the spectacular landscape of the Mountains to Sound Greenway is worthy of national recognition,” said Rep. Reichert. “This morning’s vote shows that my colleagues here in Congress understand that as well. I am proud to see this bill move forward, so the Greenway receives the official recognition it deserves. The Greenway benefits Washingtonians and visitors from around the world, which is why it is important to honor this beautiful land. I thank Chairman Bishop for his work on this bill, and look forward to its consideration by the full House.”“I am pleased to see the House Natural Resources Committee voted unanimously to pass H.R. 1791, legislation I have co-sponsored with Congressman Reichert,” said Rep. Adam Smith. “The designation of Washington’s Mountains to Sound Greenway – over 1.5 million acres of land stretching from Seattle to Ellensburg – as a National Heritage Area will help preserve and promote the area’s scenery, resources and history for future generations. I thank Congressman Reichert for his leadership and the passionate community members with the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust for their support of this important piece of legislation. I hope to see this legislation brought to the House floor for a vote in the near future.” This legislation was first introduced by Representatives Reichert and Smith in the 113th Congress as H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. In November of 2014, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed the bill, but the full House never considered it. In the same Congress, the Senate companion legislation passed out of Committee, but it did not receive consideration on the Senate floor. After receiving feedback over the past four years, Reps. Reichert and Smith reintroduced an improved and strengthened bill in March of 2017. This new bill (H.R. 1791) includes important protections for individual rights, private property owners, and tribal communities. It has the support of over 6,000 individuals and groups from government agencies and officials, businesses, outdoor recreation groups, and conservation and heritage organizations, including the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and Outdoor Alliance.“Our region is a model for the nation. We’ve built a booming economy, while simultaneously conserving the Pacific Northwest's iconic mountains, forests, rivers, and lakes. Designating the Mountains to Sound Greenway as a National Heritage Area celebrates this unique approach of economy and environment working in concert, not in conflict." said Jon Hoekstra, Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust Executive Director. "We applaud Congressmen Reichert and Smith for their dedication to and leadership on this effort over the years and look forward to helping achieve this legacy accomplishment.” Rep. Reichert and former Washington Senator Slade Gorton testified before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands last month on H.R. 1791. A bipartisan group of members from the King County Council attended the hearing in support of the legislation, including King County Councilmember Reagan Dunn, who also submitted a letter of support for the bill.
05.04.2018	Issaquah, WA - Last night, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced Washington’s Eighth Congressional District winner for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, Addeline Piippo from Bethel High School. Piippo’s colored pencil piece, titled “Gold”, was chosen from 57 pieces submitted by high school students from the district. This winning piece will hang in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. “It is an honor to congratulate Addeline on her hard work and success in this year’s art competition,” said Rep. Reichert. “This year’s group of contestants were some of the most talented that we have seen in my time in Congress. Addeline’s piece is an incredible work of art and will be a wonderful representation of Washington’s Eighth District as it hangs in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.” Additionally, Julia Magalhaes and Kaylee Decker from Tahoma Senior High School received honorable mentions for their artwork. This year, the distinguished panel of judges included, Elaine Lynest, Executive Director and Host at Arts Alive! Center for the Arts Gallery; Mary Jane Glaser, Founder and Executive Director of the Maple Valley Creative Arts Council; and Rachel Kirk, Assistant Professor of Drawing in the Department of Art and Design at Central Washington University. The Congressional Art Competition was started in 1982 as a way to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of students throughout the nation. Each spring, the competition gives Members of Congress an opportunity to highlight students from their districts and award them for their work with prestigious placement of their artwork in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building. Since the beginning of the Congressional Art Competition, more than 650,000 students have participated around America. As a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, Rep. Reichert has been a long-time supporter of a well-rounded school curriculum and proud advocate for the arts. Piippo will be invited to the U.S. Capitol in June to see her artwork on display and to attend a ceremony that will recognize all the Congressional Art Competition winners from Congressional districts across the country.
05.01.2018	Washington, DC - After last night’s announcement from the Administration on country exemptions from Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “I appreciate that the Administration has been willing to work with Congress and some of our key trading partners to provide tariff exemptions from the steel and aluminum tariffs. I will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that both the country exemption and product exclusion processes are effective and transparent, and that Washington’s trade-dependent economy and its businesses and workers are shielded from tariffs on fairly-traded products.”
04.25.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, led today’s hearing on “The Opioid Crisis: Stopping the Flow of Synthetic Opioids in the International Mail System.” The hearing focused on efforts to improve the detection of synthetic opioids in the international mail system and prevent them from entering the United States. The hearing also examined bipartisan legislative solutions to address vulnerabilities in the international mail system that have allowed synthetic opioids to go undetected. Todd Owen, Executive Assistant Commissioner of the Office of Field Operations with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Robert Cintron, Vice President of Network Operations for the U.S. Postal Service testified on the effectiveness of their pilot program and their efforts to stop opioids entering the country through the mail. To watch the hearing in full, click HERE. Chairman Reichert’s prepared opening remarks: “Welcome to the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on stopping the flow of synthetic opioids in the international mail system. Before hearing from our witnesses, I’d like to make a few points. “In 2016, nearly 64,000 Americans died from drug overdoses – nearly doubled from ten years ago. Of those deaths, approximately 66% involved opioids.“In my home state of Washington, there has been a 134% increase in opioid-related cases between 2004 and 2016, and opioid-related deaths increased 33%. To put this in stark and shocking terms, the increase in opioid-related deaths in Washington state exceeds the growth in the state’s population. “There has been a sharp rise in the number of deaths involving fentanyl – a cheap, synthetic opioid that is up to 50 times stronger than heroin and up to 100 times stronger than morphine. The number of Americans who died from an overdose of a synthetic opioid more than doubled from 2015 to 2016. Because fentanyl is so potent, it takes only a very small amount to cause a severe or deadly reaction. “Fentanyl enters the United States with alarming ease. It is frequently sold online and then shipped to the United States – typically from China – through express delivery carriers or through the international mail. Because it’s shipped in such small quantities, it is very difficult to detect. “For the last 15 years, Customs and Border Protection, by law, has required private carriers to transmit advance electronic data on shipments entering the United States. The data typically includes the shipper and recipient name and address, as well as the package contents – all of which help CBP identify high-risk shipments. “CBP has exercised its discretion not to impose this data requirement on the Postal Service because the Postal Service operates in a different environment than private carriers. As a result, international mail shipments arrive in the United States with little information. This lack of data creates a significant vulnerability that can be easily exploited by drug traffickers. “To the credit of CBP and the Postal Service, they’ve established a pilot program to test the effectiveness of acquiring advance electronic data on a small subset of mail shipments. The pilot itself is an important step – and I commend the agencies for taking it. But as the pilot has expanded, there are significant concerns about the quality of the data supplied by foreign postal operators and the ability of the Postal Service to physically retrieve the packages that CBP targets. “I am eager to hear from our witnesses today about what steps the agencies are taking to improve the pilot program, and whether they believe it has been effective. I also look forward to hearing about the unique challenges surrounding the Postal Service’s ability to collect and transmit advance electronic data. “Finally, I would like to thank CBP and the Postal Service for working closely and cooperatively with our bipartisan Committee staff to craft a legislative solution that would require the transmittal of advance electronic data on all international mail shipments in a way that is effective and achievable, and ensures the agencies are held accountable to Congress. “I would also like to thank Rep. Mike Bishop, who is leading the Committee’s efforts on this important issue, together with Reps. Vern Buchanan and Carlos Curbelo; as well as Rep. French Hill for his work to improve the detection of fentanyl by the Postal Service; and Rep. John Faso - who is here with us today to show his commitment to solving this problem.“The opioid crisis must be addressed from every angle, and that includes stopping synthetic opioids from entering our country. We must do more to protect our families and our communities from this deadly substance, and requiring advance electronic data on international mail shipments would help do just that.”
04.19.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced today that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing entitled “The Opioid Crisis: Stopping the Flow of Synthetic Opioids in the International Mail System.” The hearing will focus on efforts to improve the detection of synthetic opioids in the international mail system and prevent them from entering the United States. The hearing will also examine bipartisan legislative solutions to address vulnerabilities in the international mail system that have allowed synthetic opioids to go undetected. The hearing will take place on Wednesday, April 25, 2018, in 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 2:00 PM. “We must do more to detect and prevent synthetic opioids like fentanyl from entering the United States, particularly through international mail," said Chairman Reichert. "Last year, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) seized more than 1,100 pounds of fentanyl at and along our borders, and those numbers are on the rise. Our hearing will provide an opportunity to explore efforts by CBP and the United States Postal Service to detect opioids in international mail shipments, as well as to discuss bipartisan legislation that would address and cure vulnerabilities in the international mail system. So many Americans are caught up in the crisis of opioid addiction, and we owe it to them to find effective solutions to stop synthetic opioids from crossing our borders through the mail.”
04.18.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed two bipartisan pieces of legislation that will update the structure and operation of the Internal Revenue Service. The Taxpayer First Act (H.R. 5444) reforms IRS customer service processes and enforcement procedures, and the 21st Century IRS Act (H.R. 5445) establishes requirements for the IRS regarding cybersecurity, information technology, electronic systems, and the protection of taxpayer identities. Both bills passed through the House Ways and Means Committee unanimously last week. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after passage on the House floor: “With a new tax code, it is time to redesign, refocus, and revamp the IRS, so it works for the American people. Americans deserve an IRS that is focused on customer service and making sure they get the answers they need when they need them. With upgraded technology, improved cyber security, and a “quality service” mission that centers around improving taxpayer’s access to assistance and information, we are creating an IRS that finally prioritizes Americans and their security.”
04.18.2018	Washington, DC - Tonight, following the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “Today, America mourns the loss of an icon. Former First Lady Barbara Bush was the symbol of grace when serving as First and Second Lady and always a dedicated mother and grandmother. Her legacy of being a strong advocate for global literacy and cancer research will be remembered for generations. My thoughts, prayers, and sincerest condolences are with her husband of 73 years, former President George H.W. Bush, and her family as they reflect on her life on this earth, share the pain of her loss, but joyfully celebrate her new life with her Father in Heaven.”
04.17.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) led debate on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of H.R. 4403, the Moving Americans Privacy Protection Act, which ends the inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers and passport numbers, that are transmitted on certain shipment documents to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The legislation passed unanimously by voice vote. “Passage of this commonsense, bipartisan legislation will help protect Americans from identity theft and credit card fraud by requiring CBP to ensure that an individual’s personal information is no longer accidentally disclosed when it is included on shipment documents," said Rep. Reichert. "This is particularly important for those moving internationally in connection with military deployments, foreign service assignments, and other government employee transitions. These individuals should not have to worry that their personal information may be released by their own government, even if done so inadvertently. We can and should do more to protect Americans from this type of unwanted disclosure and hold agencies accountable. This bill does just that by stopping the release of personal information, and I thank Congressmen Denham and Pascrell for all their work on this important issue.”Click here to see Rep. Reichert’s opening statement on the House floor.
04.16.2018	Washington, DC - Over the weekend, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) of Members visiting Lima, Peru where they met with the Presidents and heads of state from several countries in the Western Hemisphere to discuss U.S. engagement in the region as well as our trade relationships. These meetings were held in association with the Summit of the Americas, which occurs every three years and provides an opportunity for leaders to discuss shared priorities for the Western Hemisphere. “It was an honor to attend the Summit of the Americas this past weekend. We had productive meetings with leaders from several countries focused on common goals – improving trade relations, human rights, and how we partner when it comes to law enforcement. We discussed how we all benefit when we work together to promote and protect the people and security of the region. I am optimistic about the relationships that were built during this visit and look forward to continued engagement.”
04.13.2018	Washington, DC - In response to the military actions in Syria this evening, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: "Absolutely no one should be treated the way the Syrian government has treated their people. Chemical weapons attacks against innocent men, women, and children cannot be tolerated. It is our responsibility as a world leader to take a stand with our allies against these heinous actions. Discussion of our long-term strategy in Syria will continue, but at this moment it is essential we take a stand. My prayers are with our military forces and those who have witnessed the atrocities of the Assad regime."
04.13.2018	Jessica Johnson receives her award from Rep. Reichert and caucus Co-Chairs, Rep. Ted Poe (left) and Rep. Jim Costa (right). Washington, DC - Yesterday, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined Co-Chairs of the Victims' Rights Caucus, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA), and fellow caucus member Brian Higgins (D-NY) to honor this year’s outstanding individuals who have given their time and service to helping victims. This year marks the 12th anniversary of the caucus.“I am honored to present Jessica Johnson with this award for outstanding victim advocacy. Jessica and her team at Safety, Advocacy, Growth, and Empowerment (SAGE) do incredible work in Wenatchee, Washington providing resources for victims who have faced traumatic experiences,” said Rep. Reichert. “From my more than 33 years of experience in law enforcement, I know firsthand how important places like SAGE can be for those who don’t know where else to turn. Through ongoing partnerships with local law enforcement and community assistance programs, SAGE is able to provide unique assistance to those in need. Our community of Central Washington is better thanks to the dedication of Jessica and her colleagues at SAGE.”“Today’s honorees are some of the most committed people in their field,” said Rep. Poe. "Their work and advocacy have inspired meaningful changes that should never be forgotten. Each year the VRC has the privilege of honoring those unsung heroes who have dedicated their lives to supporting and empowering survivors of crime. Stories like Meagan Rondini’s have started a National Dialogue regarding sexual assault on college campuses. We will all continue to fight in her name to make our reporting system better for individuals. In addition, organizations such as SafeSport are working to eradicate abuse from our sports programs. The organization is a shining beacon that empowers our youth to stand up for what is right. With programs like SafeSport, our future is in good hands.”“Those serving survivors are often a vital lifeline, but far too frequently their hard work and dedication goes unnoticed,” said Rep. Costa. “Today, I had the opportunity to honor two of these remarkable individuals: Arien Pauls and Julie Nauman. By using her painful experience to relate to other survivors in Fresno and support them in their recovery, Arien is an example of true strength and the triumph of the human spirit. Julie’s innovative and powerful outreach programs to education survivors across California about their rights have made a real difference in communities across our state. Both are an inspiration, and I am deeply honored to recognize them for their selfless commitment to victim advocacy and serving our survivors.”“For Erie County Family Court Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin, the quest for justice isn’t simply what she does, it’s who she is,” said Rep. Higgins. “Throughout her lifetime of service she has sought not only to resolve the immediate challenge facing an individual victim or a family but pursued improvements to fix the system, change the law, elevate support services and ultimately prevent future occurrences of crime and abuse.” The Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus (VRC) is a proven and effective leader in advocating for crime victims. During its 12-year existence, the VRC has taken the lead in protecting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA). The caucus was instrumental in the enactment of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, the Cruise Vessel Safety and Security Act of 2009, the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011, the SAFER Act of 2013, the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013, and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015. Each year, it hosts various briefings on victims’ rights issues, including domestic violence, child abuse, elder abuse, human trafficking as well as various other topics. It also recognizes National Crime Victims’ Rights Week with an annual awards ceremony.Award Recipients:Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim AdvocacyJessica Johnson Nominated by Rep. Reichert (WA-08) The Safety, Advocacy, Growth, and Empowerment (SAGE) program in Wenatchee Valley works to aid individuals who have experienced domestic abuse. For the past 12 years, Jessica Johnson has gone above and beyond, serving SAGE to the best of her ability. In 2016, Jessica was promoted to Executive Director. Her work with SAGE has helped to provide a safe-haven for those who faced sexual abuse, domestic violence, stalking, poverty, and sex trafficking in Central Washington.Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public AwarenessIn honor of Megan Rondini Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) On July 1st, 2015, Megan Rondini was sexually assaulted after a night out in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Immediately following the assault, Megan went to a hospital to get a rape kit. However, the hospital did not have anyone on staff trained to deal with sexual assault victims or trained to collect forensic evidence. Immediately following the failed hospital visit, she went to the police. When she recounted her story, the police openly questioned and disregarded her. Megan then sought help at her university, the University of Alabama. She was again met with disdain and disbelief. The trauma of her rape, coupled with receiving utterly no assistance from the school, police, and hospital, ultimately led Megan to take her own life. Her story and her voice live on, and real efforts to improve responses to sexual assault have been undertaken both at her University and on the federal level.Allied Professional AwardU.S. Center for SafeSport Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) The U.S. Center for SafeSport is an organization dedicated to protecting athletes from bullying, hazing, sexual misconduct or any form of emotional or physical abuse within their sport. Accepting the award on behalf of the organization is Shellie Pfol, SafeSport’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Shellie Pfohl is President and Chief Executive Officer of the United States Center for SafeSport.Eva Murillo Unsung Hero AwardArien Pauls Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) Arien Pauls became a victim of human trafficking soon after graduating high school. Her trafficker isolated her from her friends and family and forced her to have sex with strangers for money for four years. Luckily, after enduring a forced abortion, Arien was able to escape her trafficker and start a new life. She became an advocate for human trafficking victims, using her experiences to relate to and help others. She volunteered with Breaking the Chains and the Central Valley Justice Coalition, where she shares her story with hundreds of young women. Through this group, she is able to educate students about the dangers of human trafficking.Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public AwarenessJulie Nauman Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) Julie Nauman serves as the Executive Officer of the National Association of Crime Victim Compensation Board in California. Under her direction, the Board has conducted multi-lingual victim outreach and public awareness efforts to reach crime survivors. She is actively involved in ensuring that victims of crime receive all the help and compensation they require. Even though it is not required, Julie often reaches across state lines to offer assistance in cases where resources are scarce. She is a dedicated public servant and staunch defender of victims’ rights.Lois Haight Award for Excellence and InnovationHonorable Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin Nominated by Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26) Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin has dedicated her life defending individuals and families. Her extensive record in public policy on abuse, neglect, juvenile justice, custody and family violence has earned her national recognition. During Lisa’s storied career, she has worked with the Erie County District Attorney’s office, served as Chief of the Domestic Violence Unit, and was most recently appointed by the New York State Governor as an Erie County Family Court Judge. Lisa is just one of a few select judges chosen to serve on the New York State Family Court Advisory and Rules Committee, which is responsible for drafting and reviewing legislation on Family Law. She has also been appointed to the NYS Advisory Council on Immigration Issues in Family Court. Before being appointed to the bench, Lisa was the founder of the New York State’s first Domestic Violence Bureau outside New York City.
04.12.2018	Washington, DC - Earlier today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) attended a House Ways and Means Committee hearing on the effects of the Section 232 and 301 tariffs on American jobs and businesses. John Wolfe, Chief Executive Officer of the NW Seaport Alliance, was one of seven witnesses invited to testify before the Committee about how these tariffs will affect our economy and businesses across the country. Rep. Reichert released the following statement after the hearing: “Today’s hearing provided an important opportunity for a conversation about the impact of these tariffs on consumers, workers, and businesses," said Rep. Reichert. "The real-life examples discussed today highlight the need to solve the problem of China’s cheating in a way that not only protects American workers and businesses but puts them first. We must put forward the strongest approach to combat unfair trade that also shields my constituents from tariffs and retaliation. With Washington’s trade-dependent economy, we have to get this right - our communities depend on it. I would like to thank John Wolfe for joining us to share just how critical trade is to Washington state and what these tariffs mean to Washingtonians.” As Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Rep. Reichert has long been a champion of trade. Hailing from trade-dependent Washington state, he continues to highlight the importance of protecting American workers, businesses, and farmers from tariffs and retaliation. Following President Trump’s announcement on the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, Rep. Reichert and Chairman Brady expressed their concerns and sent a letter to the Administration that was signed by more than 100 of their Republican colleagues. Later, the Administration announced the results of its Section 301 investigation into China’s theft of intellectual property and forced technology transfers and its plans to impose tariffs on certain imports from China. Following the announcement, the Administration released a preliminary list of products on which it is considering imposing import tariffs.
04.11.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) was joined by former Washington Senator Slade Gorton in testifying before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands on his bill H.R. 1791, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. A bipartisan group of members from the King County Council attended the hearing in support of the legislation, including King County Councilmember Reagan Dunn, son of the late Representative Jennifer Dunn. “It was a privilege testifying today to share what we in Washington State already know well – the Mountains to Sound Greenway is a spectacular landscape worthy of national recognition. With its vibrant mix of small towns, working farms, lush forests and rugged mountains, visitors from across the state, country, and globe visit each year to take in its beauty,” Rep. Reichert said. “I am thankful for the support and dedication of Senator Gorton and Councilmember Reagan Dunn, and urge the Committee to share our view that the Greenway should be designated as a National Heritage Area, benefitting Washingtonians and visitors from around the world.” This legislation was first introduced by Representative Reichert in the 113th Congress as H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. In November of 2014, the House Natural Resources Committee passed the bill, but the full House never considered it. In the same Congress, the Senate companion legislation passed out of Committee, but it did not receive consideration on the Senate floor. After receiving feedback over the past four years, Rep. Reichert and Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) reintroduced an improved and strengthened bill in March of 2017. This new bill (H.R. 1791) includes important protections for individual rights, private property owners, and tribal communities. It has the support of over 6,000 individuals and groups from government agencies and officials, businesses, outdoor recreation groups, and conservation and heritage organizations, including the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and Outdoor Alliance."The Mountains to Sound Greenway Heritage Area will celebrate our region’s vibrant towns and cities, spectacular open spaces, and world-class recreation, giving national recognition to our community’s unique approach to growth which ensures a strong economy and healthy wild spaces are nurtured in concert, not in conflict," said Jon Hoekstra, Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust Executive Director. "We greatly appreciate and support Congressman Reichert’s commitment to designate the Greenway as a National Heritage Area, highlighting our region’s heritage and spirit.""Outdoor Alliance and our regional network in Washington are thrilled to see National Heritage Area legislation move forward,” said Adam Cramer, Executive Director of Outdoor Alliance. “The Mountains to Sound Greenway is treasured by the outdoor recreation community, with abundant opportunities for whitewater paddling, mountain biking, climbing, and skiing. The NHA legislation is an innovative approach to recognize and celebrate this treasured landscape. Outdoor Alliance admires the diversity of stakeholders involved in celebrating the Greenway's geography, and we have been delighted to be involved in the process."Background Since 1991, the nonprofit Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust has worked to preserve the area’s scenic landscapes for recreation, education and conservation. More than 900,000 acres of land now are publicly-owned, including parks and forests such as Tiger Mountain, Snoqualmie Pass and Mount Si. This network of parks, forests, farms, and cities is part of a regional history and a legacy for future generations. The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area will be a fitting recognition of this regional identity in the Pacific Northwest, and serve as a model of sustainability and cooperative solutions for the nation. National Heritage Areas are Congressionally designated partnerships between the National Park Service, states, and local communities through which the Park Service supports local and state efforts to preserve natural resources and promote tourism. National Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System. No federal regulations are imposed, and no private land is affected or acquired. Rep. Reichert’s legislation does not force private property owners to participate in any activity or provide public access on their land; it does not affect land use planning; and it does not alter, modify or extinguish treaty rights, water rights, or limit the authority of the state to manage fish and wildlife, including hunting and fishing regulations. Heritage Area designations are eligible for federal grants and this designation can help draw financial contributions from state, local, and private sources. In addition, Heritage Area designations can help promote tourism, including the marketing of local events and assisting with the operation of museums and visitor centers. A recent economic impact study indicates that National Heritage Areas contribute $12.9 billion annually to the national economy and support 148,000 jobs, according to the Park Service. On average, each Heritage Area generates about $263 million in economic activity and supports about 3,000 jobs, primarily through tourism and visitor spending. Other National Heritage Areas nationwide include: the Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area in Springfield, Illinois; the Tennessee Civil War National Heritage Area in Murfreesboro, Tennessee and the Baltimore National Heritage Area in Baltimore, Maryland.
04.11.2018	Washington, DC - Following House Speaker Paul Ryan's retirement announcement this morning, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: "With the heart of a servant, Speaker Paul Ryan has been dedicated to serving the American people for nearly 20 years; always doing what was best for the American people and often putting their needs above his own. I am honored to have served alongside Paul for the past seven terms, including our time together on the Ways and Means Committee. I have the utmost respect for his unwavering work ethic and his commitment to his family. I am thankful for his leadership, his service to our country, and wish him and his family all the best in this new chapter."
04.04.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements regarding the United States Trade Representative’s release of a preliminary list of products to be covered by import tariffs to combat Chinese trade intellectual property theft and forced technology transfers: “We must address China’s theft of technology and intellectual property belonging to American companies. It is a serious problem that requires action. At the same time, any actions we take should address the problem and also protect the 40% of jobs in my home state that are tied to trade. As we have already seen, the threat of retaliation is real and the devastating consequences for Washington’s farmers, workers, and businesses must be avoided at all costs. With the Administration’s release of this list, the American public has the opportunity to provide input into the process and describe what tariffs on these goods would mean for them. I look forward to working with the Administration throughout this process because getting this right is essential for Washington’s trade-dependent economy,” Chairman Reichert said. “China’s dishonest trade practices are hurting the American economy and costing thousands of jobs here at home. To address this challenge, I have urged the President to consult closely with U.S. job-creators to ensure we take an approach that punishes China, and not American workers. Publishing this preliminary list is an important step that will allow U.S. companies to evaluate the implications and convey their views about the effect of such tariffs on our economy. I’m confident that we can protect national security and minimize unfair trading practices while protecting American consumers and jobs,” said Chairman Brady.
03.28.2018	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements regarding the agreement reached in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS): “When I led the fight in the House to pass the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement, I did so because I knew it would benefit not only workers and businesses in Washington state, but in communities around the country. With today’s announcement, we see an even stronger partnership with South Korea and a firm commitment from the Administration to the Asia-Pacific region. Thank you to Ambassador Lighthizer and his team for their work on this important agreement” said Chairman Reichert. “South Korea is one of our most important allies, and KORUS is a key part of that alliance. The improvements to KORUS as well as the agreement on steel will strengthen the economic ties between our two countries and will be beneficial to American consumers, workers, and manufacturers. Today’s announcement demonstrates the Administration’s commitment to strengthening our relationship with Korea and increasing our competitiveness in the Asia-Pacific region” said Chairman Brady.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC - This morning, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, to extend funding for government programs through September 2018. After voting in support of this legislation, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “Today, my colleagues and I passed a bipartisan funding bill that will provide critical resources for essential government programs that Americans across the country rely on. This bill will fund the government through the fiscal year, which benefits everyone. By passing this bill, we uphold our promise to give our troops a pay raise, improve our country’s infrastructure, protect our children and support their education, fight the opioid epidemic in our country, and strengthen our communities and their safety. This bill, while not perfect, supports the American people and continues to invest in our country’s future.” The full bill includes significant resources for programs that Rep. Reichert has championed. In addition, the bill includes a key trade priority for Rep. Reichert in his capacity as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Trade. He was proud that his legislation H.R. 4979, a bill to extend the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), was included in this appropriations bill. H.R. 4979 passed by a vote of 400-2 in the House last month and greatly supports Washington companies, saving them millions in import duties every year. As a former law enforcement officer, Rep. Reichert has been a committed champion of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office protecting both the office and its funding. This bill includes a significant increase in funding, specifically for the COPS Hiring program, giving local agencies an opportunity to hire even more cops in an effort to keep our communities safe. Another program Rep. Reichert has been a strong proponent of is Project Safe Neighborhoods – a federal grant program to combat gang violence and gun-related crimes – which was funded in accordance with Rep. Reichert’s amendment that passed last year. In an effort to further protect our communities and our children while they are at school, Congress passed important provisions to secure our schools, including language from recently passed legislation. Rep. Reichert strongly believes that our children must be given the chance to learn and succeed, which is why he was proud to see strong funding designated for special needs education, arts and humanities programs, the expansion of STEM education programs, and after-school programs. America is fighting an opioid epidemic throughout the country. Today’s bill includes essential funding for fighting this epidemic and expands medical research through the National Institutes of Health. It also makes needed investments in our nation’s health care workforce and mental health services. With our country’s desperate need for modernized infrastructure, the bill expands funding that will help rebuild our nation - including projects in Washington State’s Eighth District such as the Apple Capitol Loop Project, West Cashmere Bridge project, and the Terminal 5 Modernization and Access Improvement Project.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC - Following the President’s announcement on the Section 301 investigation, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “I share the same goal of protecting the technology and intellectual property of American companies, but we must pursue a strategy that targets the problem and protects American families and workers. A strategy that doesn’t put an end to the problem, but harms American families and businesses, is not the right answer. A successful strategy requires a narrow approach and a global partnership to address China’s unfair practices. If we don’t apply the right remedy, it is Americans who will bear the brunt, not China. Our families lose because tariffs will increase prices, and our farmers and workers lose because they cannot sell their high-quality products around the world when they face retaliation. I hope the Administration’s plan to allow for public comment is a robust process for considering the public’s views on these tariffs.”
03.22.2018	Washington, DC - At today’s House Committee on Ways and Means Hearing with Commerce Secretary Ross, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) expressed his concerns about the Administration’s decision to place tariffs on certain imports of steel and aluminum and asked how the Administration is working with its global partners on a solution to overcapacity in steel and aluminum. After the hearing, Chairman Reichert made the following statement highlighting these concerns. “American businesses are worried about the negative impact of these tariffs on their bottom line and the timing and complexity of the exclusion process. American consumers and families also stand to lose because of higher prices. “These tariffs will be disastrous to the economy of my home state of Washington. Last year, over $2.5 billion in imports of steel and aluminum traveled through the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma and by way of Sea-Tac International Airport. And in Southwest Washington, one third of the revenue of the Port of Vancouver is connected to steel imports. These tariffs also set up the potential for retaliation by our trading partners against Washington’s exports. With 40% of jobs in Washington tied to trade and over $77 billion in goods exports last year, retaliatory tariffs would be devastating to communities across my state. “I agree that we must combat China’s unfair trade practices, but we need to take a targeted approach and work in partnership with the global community on a solution. Only with such a coordinated effort can we achieve our goal of reducing Chinese overcapacity in steel and aluminum and its unfair trade practices.”
03.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House Committee on Ways and Means held a hearing on the Administration’s trade agenda with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Lighthizer. Following the hearing, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement. “We must not lose sight of the cost of inaction when it comes to opening new markets. When our trading partners move forward and make agreements without us, our farmers, workers, and businesses fall behind. Whether it is dairy, wine, potatoes, wheat or tree fruit – Washington’s producers will lose market share to their foreign competitors without new trade agreements,” said Chairman Reichert. “In addition, combatting unfair trade practices is a priority I share with the Administration. However, instead of actions that undermine the competitiveness of our companies and the economies of our local communities, I urged Ambassador Lighthizer to pursue a targeted approach and work with our trading partners on a global solution. Too much is at stake for my constituents - the family in Maple Valley who will face higher prices, the manufacturer in Auburn who will pay more or lose access to imported parts, and the apple exporter in Wenatchee who will suffer from retaliation. As we consider the consequences of these actions, I remain committed to working with the Administration to protect the 40% of jobs tied to trade in Washington.”
03.21.2018	Washington, DC - U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, led a bipartisan letter signed by 173 of their colleagues requesting that Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson and Ranking Member José Serrano provide sufficient funding in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 appropriations bill for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) Program and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office programs. “People across the country are pleading for safer communities. Places where they can settle and raise their families, knowing that their loved ones are safe. Our law enforcement agencies are doing the very best they can, but they are stretched thin with the growing problems of hiring shortages and limited resources,” said Rep. Reichert. “This is why it is essential that Congress continue to provide funding for Byrne JAG and COPS Office programs which give agencies an opportunity to hire more personnel and get access to the resources they need to do their jobs effectively and continue keeping our communities safe.” “These programs are critical to ensuring that state and local law enforcement have the tools, programs, personnel and resources necessary to protect and serve their communities, including in efforts to prevent further gun violence and help stem the opioid epidemic,” the Members wrote in the letter. “Since their inception, the Byrne JAG and COPS programs have enabled law enforcement agencies to form vital partnerships among communities and law enforcement officers, combat criminal activities, and develop and implement problem-solving and crime prevention programs nationwide.” Rep. Reichert and his colleagues on the Law Enforcement Caucus have been dedicated advocates fighting both to protect and fund the COPS Office. Last year, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell sent a letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the COPS Office. Again, this year, prior to the release of the President’s budget, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell led a letter signed by 133 of their colleagues in support of robust financial support for the COPS Office in FY19. The letter highlighted the critical role the COPS Office serves by supporting the law enforcement community and improving community policing efforts across the country to keep neighborhoods safe. The letter also raised concerns about any proposals that would jeopardize the work of the COPS Office. Much to the disappointment of many in Congress, the President decreased funding for the COPS Office in his FY19 budget.Background on the Byrne JAG Program The Byrne JAG program allows states and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crimes based on their own local needs and conditions. Grants can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following areas: 1) law enforcement programs; 2) prosecution and court programs; 3) prevention and education programs; 4) corrections and community corrections programs; 5) drug treatment programs; and 6) planning, evaluation and technology improvement programs.COPS Office Background Since its inception, the COPS Office has placed more than 130,000 sworn law enforcement officers in communities across the country by providing grants for the hiring of officers through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. These grants provide federal resources to communities with public safety needs that may lack the funds to hire law enforcement officers. Additionally, the COPS Office is responsible for implementing legislation authored and co-sponsored by Reps. Reichert and Pascrell. Specifically, the COPS Office oversees implementation of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act (Public Law: 114-12), which establishes a nationwide Blue Alert communications system to help disseminate information on serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer in the line of duty, an officer who is missing in connection with the officer's official duties, or an imminent and credible threat that an individual intends to cause the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer. Finally, the COPS Office is responsible for overseeing implementation of the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act (Public Law: 115-113), which allows the COPS Office to make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs and develop training to meet law enforcement mental health needs.
03.20.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), and Jeff Denham (R-CA) introduced H.R. 5339, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Trafficking Prevention Act (RHYTPA). This bipartisan legislation will reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act—currently the only federal program targeted solely to help runaway youth. In addition, the legislation includes new protections for youth victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. There are approximately 4.2 million young people between the ages of 13 and 25 in the United States who experience homelessness annually, including 700,000 unaccompanied youth age 17 or younger. “Often overseen and left behind, runaway children and homeless youth are some of the most vulnerable in our society,” said Rep. Reichert. “Having run away and lived out of my car when I was a teenager, I know just how important it is to have a place to go, and help to turn to. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation to provide opportunities and support when these youth need it most. This is the help that can make all the difference in their lives and set their future path toward success.” “More must be done to combat youth homelessness and make sure that young people in America know they’ll always have a place they can turn to for shelter and safety,” said Rep. Yarmuth. “I’m proud Reps. Reichert and Denham are joining me in introducing this important legislation and for creating strong bipartisan support for this effort. When young people become homeless, they aren’t just losing the security of a safe place to sleep, they’re also losing out on opportunities for future success.” “Homelessness and human trafficking are two of the biggest problems we face in California’s Central Valley,” said Rep. Denham. “I’m working with programs in my community to improve the lives of at-risk youth, and this bill will further empower them to do that — especially when it comes to strengthening trafficking prevention efforts and victim assistance.” RHYTPA will reauthorize vital programs administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the Basic Center Program, to provide short-term emergency shelter and family reunification services to runaway and homeless youth; the Transitional Living Center, which provides longer-term residential services and life skills, education, and employment supports to older homeless youth; and the Street Outreach Program, which provides crisis intervention and service referrals to runaway and homeless youth at street locations and drop-in centers. Additionally, the measure includes a provision to improve support for family reunification and intervention, which can be critical to successful youth outcomes. “Runaway and homeless youth programs provide life-saving services to youth all across America, and the Runaway and Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention Act makes necessary updates to improve the critical community-based care, housing and counseling that homeless youth and young adults in crisis need to prevent or address homelessness, avoid or leave victimization, reconnect with education and achieve long-term success as adults,” said Darla Bardine, Executive Director of the National Network for Youth, a public education and policy advocacy organization dedicated to the prevention and eradication of youth homelessness in America. Rep. Reichert was also an original co-sponsor of this legislation in 2015, during the 114th Congress.
03.15.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the House passed the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 by an overwhelming vote of 407-10. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported this legislation and shared the following statement after his vote: “I am proud to support this important legislation that helps protect our children when they go to school each day. Parents deserve to send their kids to school every day knowing that they will be safe and will come home that evening. Our children deserve the chance to focus on learning in a safe environment. By reauthorizing the Secure Our Schools grant program, we are providing an opportunity for schools to improve their security measures on campus. Our country has lost too many students to devastating shootings on school campuses. This important legislation is a necessary part of the solution to preventing future tragedies. “While I support this legislation, I do not agree with a provision in the bill to remove this grant program from the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office. The COPS Office has overseen this grant program since its inception and has ensured it is well run, despite the grant program’s continual lack of funding. As this bill moves forward, I will work to see this provision removed and that the grant program remains within the COPS Office.”
03.14.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House unanimously passed the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) Grant Program Authorization Act. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a long-time supporter, champion, and previous participant in the program shared the following statement after passage. During Congressman Reichert’s time as Sheriff of King County, the county was selected to participate in the SafeCities initiative which later became known as Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN). “I am proud to support Project Safe Neighborhoods because I have seen first-hand how it creates safer communities," said Rep. Reichert. "My experience with this program goes back to my days as Sheriff of King County when I saw PSN deliver on reducing violent crime, including gun crime and gang-related activity. It is a results-driven and community outreach-focused program that sends a clear message to potential criminals that if they do the crime, they will do the time. Today’s strong vote follows my successful amendment to increase funding for PSN, showing the American people that we are invested in this critical program and focused on prioritizing their safety.” Last year, the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that they were making Project Safe Neighborhoods the centerpiece for their anti-violent crime initiative under the new Administration. In addition, King County announced an award of $500,000 in federal PSN grant funds to improve law enforcement’s ability to connect bullet ballistics to a specific firearm or crime. Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Reichert has been a continuous advocate for implementing and maintaining programs and grants that create safe communities around the country. In 2016, he explained what Project Safe Neighborhoods is and shared the proven importance of it in an op-ed. In September of 2017, Rep. Reichert’s amendment to increase funding for Project Safe Neighborhoods passed in the House.Additional Background: Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) is a grant program administered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) and is designed to create safer neighborhoods through a sustained reduction in crime associated with gang and gun violence. The program's effectiveness is based on the cooperation of local, state, and federal agencies engaged in a unified approach led by the U.S. Attorney in each district. The U.S. Attorney is responsible for establishing a collaborative PSN task force of federal, state, and local law enforcement and other community members to implement gang and gun crime enforcement, intervention, and prevention initiatives within the district. The purpose of PSN is to reduce gun crime and gang violence by the most violent offenders in the most violent neighborhoods by employing a research-driven, intelligence-led, and problem-solving approach to reduce firearms and gang violence through enforcement, deterrence, and prevention.
03.09.2018	Washington, DC - Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), and Tom Rooney (R-FL), the co-chairs of the Congressional Olympic and Paralympic Caucus, released the following statement congratulating the athletes competing in the 2018 PyeongChang Paralympic Winter Games: “We are proud to support the U.S. Paralympic Team of 20 women and 54 men competing in the 2018 PyeongChang Paralympic Winter Games. Their determination and independence is empowering to individuals of all abilities and promotes a more inclusive society. As co-chairs of the Congressional Olympic and Paralympic Caucus, we look forward to watching the U.S. Paralympians achieve sporting excellence. We are thrilled to cheer on Team USA as they compete against athletes from 45 other countries across the sport disciplines of alpine skiing, biathlon, cross-country skiing, ice hockey, snowboarding and wheelchair curling.” Washington sends its support to local Team USA athletes – alpine skiers Mark Bathum (Seattle), Josh Elliott (Yakima), and Cade Yamamoto (Quincy). Wishing Team USA all the best!
03.08.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statements today after President Trump took action to impose tariffs on certain imports of steel and aluminum. “I appreciate that President Trump heard our call for a more targeted approach. Now, we must ensure the process for excluding countries and companies is effective and provides the relief necessary for our manufacturers and businesses to remain globally competitive,” said Chairman Reichert. “We cannot allow for increased costs and disruptions in supply chains that undermine the pro-growth benefits of our successful tax reform effort. And with 40% of jobs tied to trade in my home state of Washington, we cannot take actions that hurt the ability of our exporters to sell their American-made goods and services around the world. I will continue to work with the Administration to narrow the application of these tariffs through the exclusion process, so that the end result protects the American workers, consumers, and businesses who rely on imports of aluminum and steel and access to overseas markets.” “Clearly President Trump has listened to Congress and job-creators all over America by improving the original proposal to create a path to allow fairly traded steel and aluminum to be excluded country-by-country and business-by-business,” said Chairman Brady. “Exempting Canada and Mexico is a good first step, and I urge the White House to go further to narrow these tariffs so they hit the intended target – and not U.S. workers, businesses and families. "As America’s economy and trading partners react to these new taxes, Congress – which has constitutional authority over trade with foreign nations – will continue to be actively engaged with the Administration to preserve the strong economic momentum created by President Trump’s tax cuts and reforms.” Yesterday, Chairman Brady and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert led more than 100 House Republicans in sending a letter to President Trump that reinforced the need to take action against China and other unfair trading partners while expressing concerns that broad tariffs could harm America’s jobs, manufacturers, and consumers. The letter also outlined several recommendations to hold countries accountable without disrupting the flow of fairly traded products that American manufacturers rely on.Click here to read the full letter.
03.08.2018	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and more than 100 House Republicans today expressed concerns that broad tariffs could harm America’s workers, manufacturers, and consumers. Rep. Reichert gave the following statement on the letter and recent call for tariffs: “I am deeply concerned about the potential for broad-based tariffs on steel and aluminum and what this would mean for American manufacturers and consumers," said Rep. Reichert. "Last year, we passed a landmark achievement - we updated our tax code to strengthen our economy and the competitiveness of American workers and businesses. Imposing broad tariffs would undermine the pro-growth environment we worked hard to create. I share the President’s goal of addressing overcapacity and unfair trade practices, but we need a narrow, targeted approach that will not hurt our workers and businesses. I hope the President will carefully consider the negative consequences of broad tariffs and adopt an approach that targets unfair trade while supporting the competitiveness of American workers and businesses and their ability to sell their products all over the globe.” In the letter to the President, the lawmakers wrote: “We are writing to express deep concern about the prospect of broad, global tariffs on aluminum and steel imports. Because tariffs are taxes that make U.S. businesses less competitive and U.S. consumers poorer, any tariffs that are imposed should be designed to address specific distortions caused by unfair trade practices in a targeted way while minimizing negative consequences on American businesses and consumers. “We were privileged to partner closely with you and your administration to develop and pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Your leadership on these tax cuts, in combination with your regulatory reforms, have done so much to increase the competitiveness of U.S. companies and restore the United States’ position as the best place in the world to do business. We are convinced that the benefits of these tax cuts are only beginning, and we look forward to building on this great success as the benefits continue to spread to U.S. workers and job creators. But adding new taxes in the form of broad tariffs would undermine this remarkable progress. The lawmakers outlined several recommendations to hold countries accountable without disrupting the flow of fairly traded products that American manufacturers rely on: “We support your resolve to address distortions caused by China’s unfair practices, and we are committed to acting with you and our trading partners on meaningful and effective action. But we urge you to reconsider the idea of broad tariffs to avoid unintended negative consequences to the U.S. economy and its workers. We are eager to work with you in pursuing a workable, targeted approach that achieves our shared goal.” To see the full text of the letter, click here.
03.05.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement about the DACA program. “Six months ago today, the President announced that he would end the DACA program. Even before this announcement, I have been advocating for certainty for DACA recipients. We must find a solution that allows Dreamers to stay in this country they call home. Until we have an agreement, I will continue to make the case for urgent action with Congressional leadership through letters and cosponsoring bills. I remain committed to providing a way for these individuals who are our neighbors, friends and co-workers to become U.S. citizens.” To see the work that Rep. Reichert has done towards finding a solution, click here. On September 5, 2017, President Trump announced the end of the DACA program stating that DACA status would expire in six months, or March 5th, and asked Congress to take legislative action. After a court challenge and subsequent court orders, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has resumed accepting requests to renew DACA status but will not accept new requests from individuals who have not been a part of the DACA program previously.
02.28.2018	Washington, DC - The House passed H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, which increases and strengthens criminal penalties for websites that facilitate illegal prostitution or sex trafficking on their site and ensures states and prosecutors have the ability to enforce sex trafficking laws. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) voted in support of this legislation and released the following statement: “During my 33 years in law enforcement, I helped many victims of sex trafficking. Their stories are the ones I will never forget because the trauma these victims face is unimaginable. They deserve our protection and to know we are fighting for them, by strengthening the penalties for websites facilitating sex trafficking and providing states and prosecutors with the tools to put a stop to this horrific crime. Sex trafficking is a deplorable industry that has only expanded, as perpetrators find new ways to carry on their practice. By increasing accountability and taking away this market for sex traffickers to profit from, we are taking important, necessary steps towards ending sex trafficking and the exploitation of its victims.”
02.27.2018	Washington, DC - Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements today after attending a trade meeting with President Trump and congressional leaders: “I appreciated the opportunity to discuss with the President the importance of trade to my district and home state of Washington,” said Chairman Reichert. “It was a productive meeting, and I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration on an improved and updated NAFTA and holding China accountable for its unfair trade practices and overcapacity. In addressing these shared priorities, we should build upon the growth we have achieved through our tax reform efforts and take only those steps that increase the competitiveness of American businesses, workers, and farmers as they compete around the world and win. I am committed to getting these issues right for my constituents and those around the country who rely on an enforceable, high-standard NAFTA and whose products require access to steel and aluminum.” “We had another productive meeting with President Trump today on how we can further strengthen America’s economy and improve lives through pro-growth trade policies,” Chairman Brady said. “With President Trump’s leadership on tax cuts and regulatory reform, our economy is growing stronger. Businesses are bringing jobs back home, workers are finally getting the pay raises they deserve, and Americans are seeing more investments in our local communities. “My goal is to continue those positive trends through strong trade agreements to improve the lives of America’s workers, consumers, and job creators. In particular, I will continue to work with President Trump to deliver a modernized NAFTA – one with tough obligations that are strictly enforced through effective and binding dispute settlement. I’m also committed to working with the President on narrow and targeted remedies that address China’s distortions without hurting other U.S. industries and workers. “President Trump understands the need for strong collaboration between Congress and the Administration given our Constitutional role in trade policy. I’m confident that together we will move forward with trade policies that benefit my constituents in Texas and Americans across the country.” Rep. Reichert has been a committed advocate for a modernized NAFTA that brings the agreement into the 21st century. From chairing a Trade Subcommittee Hearing on the modernization of NAFTA earlier this Congress to leading a Congressional delegation to Montreal, Canada for the sixth round of NAFTA negotiations, Rep. Reichert has spent his time in Congress fighting to ensure an improved NAFTA meets the needs of American workers, farmers and businesses.
02.23.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) announced that Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) is a finalist for the first-ever “Life in Congress” Workplace Environment award as part of the Democracy Awards. This award highlights offices that have both formal policies and informal cultures that exhibit core office values and support the professional development of their staffs. “I am truly honored to be a finalist for this award. Since first being elected to Congress, serving the constituents of Washington’s Eighth District has been the number one priority for me and my team,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is about more than meeting the needs of my constituents; it is about doing so each day with the heart of a servant. This mentality develops leadership, integrity, service, and teamwork that is unrivaled. When I served as Sheriff of King County, I saw how these values create a strong team, which is why I established this as an office mission from the very beginning.”Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation shared why Rep. Reichert was selected for the award. “As a finalist in "Life in Congress"-Workplace Environment for a Democracy Award, Rep. Reichert’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress. This designation demonstrates that Rep. Reichert has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents in Washington. Rep. Reichert and his staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work. “Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA-08) actively solicits opinions and ideas from his staff, fostering loyalty and a desire to work at their highest potential. Four of his employees have worked for him almost his entire tenure in Congress; the Chief of Staff has been with him for 25 years, dating back to his days in law enforcement. The office makes certain everyone knows what is expected of them and how to successfully carry out their duties through thorough, but easily understood, manuals. The 200+ page "8th District Guide" lists names and contact information for government offices at every level; Chambers of Congress and other business organizations by city; community and service groups; and all schools, hospitals, and first responders in the district. This extremely useful document gives staff vital information they need to excel in their positions and to represent the district at the highest level. The core values of the office – Leadership, Integrity, Service and Teamwork – are displayed on posters in each location as a reminder of how employees should approach service to their constituents.” Twenty House and Senate offices were honored as finalists in four categories: Constituent Service, Innovation, Transparency and Accountability, and "Life in Congress"-Workplace Environment. House and Senate personal offices nominated themselves using an online questionnaire for the four office categories. CMF followed up with offices to gather documentation and assess the office's adherence to the established criteria. CMF staff selected the finalists based on the information provided by nominees. A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and former congressional staffers will select the two winners (one Democrat and one Republican) for each of the categories. Winners will be announced in mid-May. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with Member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services.
02.16.2018	Washington, DC - The Ways and Means Committee hosted a hearing with United States Secretary of the Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, about President Trump’s budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2019. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) shared his response following the hearing. “With the historic passage of tax reform this past year, we must make sure it is implemented correctly and that taxpayers receive the information they need. That is why I asked Secretary Mnuchin how this new plan is being put into action," said Rep. Reichert. "In the coming months and years, I know that Americans will see significant benefits from the new tax code and its implementation. Now, we must build on this work and continue to boost the competitiveness of U.S. companies through a successful update of NAFTA and a fully operational Export-Import Bank. I look forward to working with the Administration on these priorities.” To see Rep. Reichert’s line of questioning and his remark to Secretary Mnuchin, click here.
02.15.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) voted against the ADA Education and Reform Act (H.R. 620). He shared his reasoning and thoughts following the vote. “We must ensure that our friends and loved ones who face life-altering disabilities have access to the places we all enjoy and that our businesses know how to provide this access. Today, I voted against this legislation because it was not the right way to achieve this goal and support disabled Americans,” said Rep. Reichert. “Educating businesses and local governments on the best practices for providing greater accessibility and promoting compliance is key, so that access is guaranteed and businesses know their responsibilities. Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked with those who face these difficulties and I could not support this bill that did not put those with disabilities first."
02.13.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) led debate on the House floor on H.R. 4979, a bill to extend the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and to make technical changes to the competitive need limitations provisions of the program. The bill passed the House by a vote of 400-2. “By renewing GSP and providing tariff relief, we are creating opportunities for American businesses to grow and re-invest here at home and to compete globally. At the same time, we are strengthening our partnerships with developing countries and ensuring that our trading partners meet the standards of the GSP program. This tariff relief and accountability help our workers, manufacturers, and businesses succeed at home and abroad,” said Chairman Reichert. “In my home state of Washington, GSP saved companies about $11 million in import duties in 2017 – up 30 percent from 2016. As just one example, TRInternational, a small but quickly growing veteran-owned chemical distributor in Seattle, relies on GSP to obtain certain chemical raw materials at globally competitive prices. Our last renewal of GSP in 2015 allowed TRI to hire more employees in my state and invest in equipment. Many of TRI’s customers are U.S. manufacturers, and TRI’s use of GSP to obtain raw materials at lower prices also makes these manufacturers more competitive. For TRI, and for other Washington companies like Rain City Music that use the GSP program, GSP provides significant opportunities to their employees, and reduces costs for American consumers.” To watch Chairman Reichert speak on the House floor, please click here.
02.13.2018	Washington, DC - Following the President’s release of his Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Proposal, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) shared his thoughts. “I am pleased that the President’s budget request highlights the need to strengthen our military, meet our nation’s infrastructure needs, address our national parks’ maintenance backlog, conduct life-saving medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and fight the opioid crisis," said Rep. Reichert. "But there is so much more that I believe is important for us to prioritize, including state and local law enforcement, community development, land and water conservation, education, and public broadcasting. With the release of the President’s budget request, it is now the responsibility of Congress to determine how we can best meet the needs of our constituents through the budget and appropriations process. This is a responsibility I take very seriously. As my colleagues and I work through this process, I will continue to champion programs that strengthen our communities, support vulnerable populations, ensure good stewardship of our public lands, and maintain our arts and humanities that protect our national heritage.”
02.10.2018	Washington, DC - Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), and Tom Rooney (R-FL), the four co-chairs of the Congressional Olympic and Paralympic Caucus, released the following statement congratulating the 242 athletes of Team USA as they begin competition at the 2018 Olympic Winter Games: “As co-chairs of the Congressional Olympic and Paralympic Caucus, we are excited for our 242 athletes to participate in this year’s games in PyeongChang, South Korea. This team, which has members hailing from 32 states, will be the largest athlete delegation for any nation in the history of the Olympic Winter Games. Our Olympic athletes have tirelessly worked for the honor of representing our nation at the highest level. We look forward to cheering on Team USA as they compete for gold in all 15 sport disciplines. The Olympics is a testament to the power of international competition to unite us in common spirit, and the games act as a reminder that we can achieve our dreams with courage and determination.” This year’s Olympic Winter Games are taking place in PyeongChang, South Korea, sister city to Auburn, Washington, Rep. Reichert’s hometown and located in Washington’s Eighth District. Washington sends its support to local Team USA athletes - cross country skiers Sadie Bjornsen and Erik Bjornsen from Winthrop, WA and short track speed skaters J.R. Celski and Aaron Tran from Federal Way, WA.
02.09.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congress passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (H.R. 1892), to extend government funding through March 23, 2018. After a vote of support, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “I am pleased we finally reached a bipartisan budget agreement that will allow us to fund critical government programs, strengthen our military, and avoid continued short-term spending bills," said Rep. Reichert. "Today, we came together to make important investments in our country’s future through medical research, programs to combat addiction and community support through a reauthorization of the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) program. For the health of American families, we extended funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers. I am also proud to say we have updated our tax code to support the work of philanthropic businesses that donate their profits to support their communities. These investments and this certainty will positively impact American families.” For a summary of the legislation, click HERE. For the full text of the bill, click HERE.
02.08.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) joined with Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) to introduce H.R. 4979. This bipartisan legislation provides a three-year renewal of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program, a longstanding U.S. trade preference program that delivers tariff relief and cost savings to American businesses, workers, and consumers across the country. “The GSP program saved U.S. companies over $865 million in import duties in 2017, benefiting thousands of companies of all sizes and their employees. The GSP eligibility criteria provide an important enforcement tool to require our trading partners to meet standards established by Congress in regard to opening their markets to U.S. goods and services, intellectual property protection, and child labor and worker rights. The legislation we introduced today includes a new reporting requirement that will improve the effectiveness of Congressional oversight of enforcement of the eligibility criteria. Prompt passage of this extension will help keep U.S. companies globally competitive and will allow the important work of enforcing the eligibility criteria to continue,” Chairman Reichert said. “The benefits of GSP are clear for U.S. manufacturers and consumers. It’s so important that we move quickly to enact this extension to support the tens of thousands of U.S. jobs that depend on the program. Last year, GSP allowed Texas companies to save more than $76 million in tariffs – which are essentially taxes. This is more than all but two other states. U.S. companies of all sizes, particularly small and medium-sized companies, rely on GSP to maintain their edge over global competitors. The time is now to renew the program and remove uncertainty for U.S. companies so they can better use GSP to reduce costs, compete globally, and create jobs here at home,” Chairman Brady said. “American businesses, workers, and consumers depend on the GSP program to lower costs and keep America competitive in the global economy. This bipartisan bill updates and extends GSP and makes commonsense fixes to the ‘competitive need limitations’ process that will save manufacturers time and money better used to expand, innovate, and create jobs. I want to thank Chairman Brady and Chairman Reichert for their leadership to further strengthen American manufacturing,” Rep. Walorski said. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) is the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program. It provides duty-free access to imports on thousands of products from 121 designated beneficiary developing countries in a manner that does not hurt U.S. producers. The program’s last authorization expired on December 31, 2017. When enacted, the bill introduced today will extend the program through December 31, 2020, and retroactively extend benefits to covered imports that have been made since the program lapsed. The bill also makes technical changes to update the process for considering “competitive need limitations” under the program, consistent with H.R. 4068, introduced by Rep. Walorski. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Rep. Reichert has been a long-time supporter and advocate for GSP. In 2017, GSP saved American companies about $11 million in tariffs on imports into Washington. Rain City Music in Bonney Lake, WA is a great example of a local company in Washington’s Eighth District that benefits from this legislation through their import of musical instruments from India. With the renewal of GSP, Washington’s businesses will be able to put their tariff savings into hiring new workers, investing in their company, and providing additional benefits to their employees.
02.07.2018	Washington, DC - This week, Co-Chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Representative Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ), along with over 130 of their colleagues, sent a letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office and urging him to include robust funding for this office in his budget for Fiscal Year 2019. Rep. Reichert released the following statement on the letter: “My 33 years of law enforcement experience has showed me just how important the COPS Office is for our country,” said Rep. Reichert. “I have seen the benefits of their programs first-hand which is why I have consistently fought both to keep the office in place and ensure it is adequately funded each year. I sincerely hope that the President will also see its value and support our local law enforcement agencies across the country with the funding they desperately need to hire and take care of our cops. Now, more than ever before, our country must continue to bridge the divide between our nation’s law enforcement and the communities they serve. Funding the COPS Office is essential to doing this.” Since its inception, the COPS Office has placed more than 130,000 law enforcement officers in communities across the United States by providing grants for the hiring of officers through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. These grants provide federal resources to communities with public safety needs that may lack the funds to hire law enforcement officers. The COPS Office programs provide invaluable resources and technical assistance to state, local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement agencies. Additionally, the COPS Office is responsible for implementing legislation authored and co-sponsored by Reps. Reichert and Pascrell. Specifically, the COPS Office oversees implementation the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act (Public Law: 114-12), which establishes a nationwide Blue Alert communications system to help disseminate information on serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer in the line of duty, an officer who is missing in connection with the officer's official duties, or an imminent and credible threat that an individual intends to cause the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer. Finally, the COPS Office is responsible for overseeing implementation of the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act (Public Law: 115-113), which allows the COPS Office to make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs and develop training to meet law enforcement mental health needs. This letter was endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Major County Sheriff’s Association, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Rep. Reichert has fought continuously throughout his career for funding of the COPS Hiring Program to ensure it is regularly protected and strengthened. This program is often times targeted for elimination or funding cuts during the appropriations process. For Fiscal Year 2018 funding, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the COPS Office and in particular the COPS Hiring Program. They also sent a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee last year encouraging them to include funding for the COPS Hiring Program. Over 180 other Members of Congress signed this letter as well in support of the program. In September 2017, Rep. Reichert secured funding for the COPS Hiring Program on the House floor from Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) for Fiscal Year 2018. Prior to the Congressman’s efforts, funding for the program had been completely eliminated. In relation, Rep. Reichert has also championed the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) program, a federal grant program to combat gang violence and gun-related crimes. In September, the House passed his amendment to increase funding for this program to $20 million for fiscal year 2018. Following Rep. Reichert’s leadership on this, the Department of Justice also announced several months ago their initiative for combatting violent crime using PSN.
02.07.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements after the Committee’s bipartisan meeting with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer: “It was a pleasure meeting with Ambassador Lighthizer again this morning to discuss how we can best support American workers, farmers, and businesses through trade. Our trade agreements have greatly benefited communities across the country, but we can and should update our agreements and make improvements. I’ve made clear that the best way to improve our trade agreements is to require ambitious and fully enforceable commitments from our trading partners. In addition, we must create certainty and confidence in the relationship so that foreign customers want to buy from our companies and benefit our constituents. I have spent my time in Congress fighting to keep Washington’s workers and businesses globally competitive as they sell their high-quality goods and services around the world, including passage of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. I remain committed to strong agreements and working with Ambassador Lighthizer and his team to create new opportunities for my constituents,” Chairman Reichert said. “Ambassador Lighthizer shares our commitment to modernizing NAFTA and other trade agreements to make sure Americans get the best deal possible. He and his team have been steadfastly working on new ways to level the playing field for our workers and businesses and hold our trading partners accountable. People in my district and across the country are counting on us to get this right, which is why we all have to stay at the table. Congress has the Constitutional responsibility to regulate trade relations – and we’re committed to fulfilling our duty in close coordination with the Administration,” Chairman Brady said. Late last month, Chairman Reichert led a bipartisan Congressional delegation to the NAFTA negotiations in Montreal, Canada, where they met with senior government officials from all three countries and the U.S. negotiating team. Ways and Means Committee Members will continue working together with the Administration throughout the NAFTA negotiations.
02.06.2018	Washington, DC - This evening, the House voted to pass a continuing resolution (CR) that will extend government funding through March 23, 2018 and avoid a government shutdown. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported this measure and released the following statement: “Throughout my time in Congress, I have consistently voted in support of legislation that ensures our government remains open and serving the American people,” said Rep. Reichert. “Shutting down our government is in no way productive. The American people deserve to have confidence that they can go to work and receive the important government services they rely on. “This bill provides vital resources for our Community Health Centers, supports our troops, and strengthens families to help keep children out of foster care. It is my hope we will continue to keep the government funded while we come together to find a long-term funding agreement.” Today’s bill includes funding for all government programs through March 23, 2018. It extends funding for Community Health Centers for two years, providing comprehensive health services to underserved populations; one in thirteen people across the country rely on these critical services. Additionally, funding for the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education Program was extended for two years, continuing to help prepare our future doctors and medical providers in medically underserved communities. This legislation permanently repeals two Medicare provisions that establish a cap on Medicare therapy and speech generating devices, ensuring access for those people who need these services and resources. For the first time ever, this legislation designates funding to support families staying together by helping keep children out of the foster care system. Further it appropriates a full year of funding for our military through the Department of Defense, giving our soldiers a well-deserved pay raise.
01.30.2018	Washington, DC - This evening, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) attended President Trump’s State of the Union Address to Congress. Rep. Reichert released the following statement addressing the many topics the President talked about that affect Washingtonians. “Tonight we heard the President talk about the American dream, creating new opportunities, and giving every American the chance to be proud of our country. "He highlighted the need to set aside our differences and join together to create a safe, strong, and proud America. I have learned through my time in Congress that in order to get the best results for the American people, we must work together. This evening, the President offered his support for our Dreamers. And I agree that these individuals who are our friends, neighbors, peers, colleagues, spouses, and honored members of the military that came here for opportunity must be given a chance to become citizens. They may not have the “United States” printed on their birth certificate, but it is stamped on their heart. It is against the American DNA to punish these young people for a crime they did not commit. "When we look back at what the President shared in last year’s address, I am proud of the historic achievement we made this year to make the tax code work for the American people. I share his optimism about how this new tax code will benefit workers, communities, and businesses across the country. We have already seen over 200 companies announce increased wages, 401(k) matches, bonuses, and investment in the U.S. And starting next month 90% of taxpayers will take home more of their paycheck. For the constituents of Washington’s Eighth District, they will get a chance to keep more of their hard-earned money, to have a good-paying job or to pursue their next even better job. Our local businesses will be able to grow, hire, compete, and succeed. But also essential to our economic growth is expanded trade. With forty percent of jobs in Washington tied to international trade, I am committed to ambitious trade agreements that tear down barriers for our workers, farmers, and businesses. "The President expressed his commitment to fighting the drug epidemic and helping get treatment to those in need, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to work alongside this administration to find solutions to this growing problem. "I also appreciated that the President took the time to highlight the story of one of his guests, Officer Ryan Holets. While on duty one night, Officer Holets was responding to a robbery call when he discovered a drug addicted pregnant woman and by the time he left he had offered to adopt her baby. It is encouraging stories such as this one that give us hope. As a former law enforcement officer, myself, I am committed to working with my colleagues to continue to bridge the divide between our nation’s law enforcement and the communities they serve. Just as we support those who protect us here at home, I am pleased that the President reinforced our country’s commitment to a strong military during his speech. As threats continue to change and grow around the world, it is essential that we continue to support those who bear the burden of keeping our country safe and protecting our national security. "Tonight, the President also outlined for the American people his plan to rebuild our country’s infrastructure and how he plans to do it. There are many infrastructure projects throughout Washington state and the Eighth District that could greatly benefit from this plan, including the Apple Capitol Loop Project, West Cashmere Bridge project, and the Terminal 5 Modernization and Access Improvement Project. I am hopeful that we can come together in a bipartisan manner to find a way to rebuild our roads, bridges, highways, railways, and waterways in order to meets the needs of my constituents and communities across the country.”
01.29.2018	Washington, DC - Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) returned yesterday from leading a two-day bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) trip to Montreal, Canada during the sixth round of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) negotiations. During the trip, the delegation met with senior government officials from all three countries and the U.S. negotiating team. Throughout the trip, the delegation worked to advance U.S. interests in the negotiations, reinforce Congressional priorities, and strengthen ties with our trading partners. Upon arrival home, Rep. Reichert released the following statement: “I am very pleased with the work our delegation accomplished during our visit to Montreal. We expressed our commitment to a successful, modernized NAFTA and shared our priorities for strengthening the agreement. Through these negotiations, we must provide certainty for American workers and businesses and tear down the barriers they face in Canada and Mexico through strong and enforceable commitments. I am optimistic about the progress made so far in these negotiations and the desire of all three countries to address the outstanding issues. I will continue to fight for an updated NAFTA that meets the high standards my constituents demand.”
01.26.2018	Washington, DC - Today, a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) from the U.S. House of Representatives departed for a two-day visit to Montreal, Canada for the sixth round of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) negotiations. The eleven-member delegation will meet with the U.S. negotiating team and senior government officials from all three countries as well as representatives of the American business community to share their priorities for a successful NAFTA negotiation. In announcing this CODEL, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement: “American farmers, manufacturers, and businesses have benefited greatly from NAFTA, and it is critical that Congress play an active role in updating this agreement. This trip is an important opportunity for my colleagues and me to meet with senior government officials from all three countries to emphasize the importance of this agreement and to urge them to continue working toward an ambitious result. The final agreement must be a strong and enforceable NAFTA that benefits the American people. Across the country, our consumers, workers, and farmers heavily rely on NAFTA, and we owe it to them to get this right.” Other members of the delegation include Representatives Adrian Smith (R-NE), Tom Rice (R-SC), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Will Hurd (R-TX), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Sander Levin (D-MI), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Terri Sewell (D-AL), and Brian Higgins (D-NY).
01.22.2018	Washington, DC - After a 3-day lapse in government funding over the weekend, Congress voted and passed a continuing resolution that extends government appropriations through February 8, 2018 and extends critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for 6 years. "I am glad we were able to come together to end this shutdown, but it never should have come to this point. The American people deserve better than to worry about whether they will receive a paycheck or be able to receive important government services," said Rep. Reichert. "In the upcoming weeks, there is still a lot of work to be done on a longer-term spending bill and certainty for our Dreamers. I am committed to finding a permanent solution for our Dreamers, but we must fund essential government programs and keep Americans working as we move to resolve these issues."
01.20.2018	Washington, DC - Today, on the first day of the government shutdown, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the decision to withhold his federal pay for the duration of the shutdown. The text of Representative Reichert’s letter to Philip Kiko, the Chief Administrative Officer for the United States Congress reads: “I have been informed that despite a lapse of appropriations and current government shutdown, Members of Congress will continue receiving their salary. Please withhold my pay until an appropriations agreement has taken effect.” “It’s the fair and right thing to do,” said Rep. Reichert. “This is a challenging time for our country and I should not get special treatment while many others are dealing with furloughs through no fault of their own.”
01.20.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after government funding expired this evening: "I am extremely disappointed that some made the reckless decision to shut down our government tonight. There are important issues we must address, including providing certainty for our Dreamers, but we must keep our government up and running while we work toward a solution. Keeping our government operational and fully funded is critical to the day to day lives of all Americans and I urge both sides to come together to re-open the government."
01.18.2018	Washington, DC - Today, the House passed a continuing resolution (H.R. 195) that will extend critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and averts a government shutdown by maintaining funding for government programs through February 16, 2018. “I supported this legislation to keep the government running not only because we must ensure our government can continue to provide critical services but also because of what it means for our children. Today, Congress funded CHIP for 6 years – the longest extension we have ever made to this vital program, providing certainty to families across the country who rely on it,” Rep. Reichert said. “Programs like this should not suffer because Congress needs extra time to craft a long-term solution to government spending. I am also pleased that we are providing relief from several taxes that have been burdening American workers, patients, and businesses since passage of the health care law.” A section-by-section of the bill can be found HERE.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) took action in opposing the Administration’s proposal for new offshore oil and gas drilling and exploration off Washington’s coastline. “I am deeply concerned about the Administration’s continued push to allow new gas and oil drilling opportunities along our coasts,” said Rep. Reichert. “This moves America in the wrong direction and could lead to policies that create long-lasting harm to the Pacific Ocean and Washington’s shorelines. I am hopeful the Administration will hear this final plea to stop these efforts for new offshore drilling off the Pacific Coast of Washington.” “I don't support offshore oil and gas exploration in states that don't want it, and Washington's citizens have never indicated any desire to have oil and gas activity off their coast,” Rep. Herrera Beutler said. “Energy independence is a worthy goal, but the plan to get there should not include Washington’s coast. Interior Secretary Zinke has said he will respond to individual states and communities in finalizing his plan, and I’m sending this letter with my colleague Rep. Reichert to let the secretary know that Washington should not be included in the final proposal to increase energy exploration.” In a letter sent to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, Reps. Reichert and Herrera Beutler expressed their deep concern over the proposal and urged the Administration to remove the coast of Washington from its planning areas for expanded drilling and exploration. Rep. Reichert has consistently spoken out against the Administration’s offshore drilling efforts. Earlier this year, he led a bi-partisan letter, with 100 of his colleagues, to Secretary Zinke asking him to reject proposals to open the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Regions to new offshore drilling and exploration. The text of their letter can be found here.
01.16.2018	Washington, DC - As Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) has championed the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act (H.R. 4318) with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), and several of their colleagues. Today, the House passed this legislation with broad bipartisan support. “I am proud to join with my colleagues to support American workers and help American manufacturers of all sizes reduce costs, create jobs, and compete globally,” Chairman Reichert said. “Today’s strong bipartisan vote has been years in the making. I remained committed to this effort because of the benefits it will bring to communities across the country. For businesses in my home state of Washington, the MTB will provide nearly $16 million in cost savings, which they can instead use to invest in their employees and their products. Through the MTB, along with the tax plan that Congress passed late last year, I am working to provide American workers and businesses a chance to succeed globally, earn and provide better wages, and grow their businesses.” “I would like to thank the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) for its tremendous effort and dedication in successfully bringing the new MTB process to life. I would also like to thank the Commerce Department and Customs and Border Protection for their invaluable work.” Rep. Reichert has been a leader on this issue for many years. Earlier this Congress, he held a hearing in the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee on the issue entitled, “Miscellaneous Tariff Bill: Providing Relief to U.S. Manufacturers Through the New MTB Process.” In 2016, Congress passed the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) that established an open and transparent process for consideration of the MTB. Over the past year, American businesses have been able to petition the International Trade Commission (ITC) for tariff relief on their products, so long as it met the requirements outlined in the AMCA. Based on the petition requests and recommendations from the ITC, this legislation provides tariff relief on products for hundreds of businesses across the country. In December 2017, more than 190 businesses and organizations sent a letter to Congress urging swift passage of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act. Since the last MTB expired in 2012, American companies have faced an annual $748 million tax hike on manufacturing in the United States. This has resulted in a $1.8 billion loss to the U.S. economy.
01.12.2018	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement condemning the President's reported disparaging comments about other nations. “America is a land of immigrants," said Rep. Reichert. "It is our diversity in culture and experience that makes our country great. All nations and people must be treated with respect and dignity. I am extremely disappointed by the President’s reported comments and do not support these views in any way. America has a proud history of welcoming people of all nationalities and beliefs, and the president should reflect these values.”
01.11.2018	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the President signed into law, H.R. 2228, the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017, which would help agencies create and improve mental health services for law enforcement officers. The bill was introduced last year by Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Susan Brooks (R-IN), Val Demings (D-FL), and Doug Collins (R-GA), and passed the House of Representatives in November. “I am very pleased to see the President sign this important legislation into law,” said Rep. Reichert. “It will take the necessary steps to support the well-being and mental health of our nation’s law enforcement. Earlier this week we celebrated National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day and this bill is a concrete example of how we are showing our appreciation to those who serve us here at home. Having served in law enforcement for 33 years, I understand first-hand how important providing this resource will be for those who see and face the worst of society. Like the brave men and women serving in our armed forces, law enforcement officers face dangerous situations and see vicious acts that are often difficult to move on from. It is past time that we provide much-needed mental health services to our officers protecting us here at home.” As co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Reichert is dedicated to ensuring that our law enforcement is taken care of and given the resources they need to do their jobs and maintain their health.The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the Department of Justice, Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop resources to equip local law enforcement agencies to address mental health challenges faced by officers. The bill would also make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs, develop training for mental health providers specific to law enforcement mental health needs, and support law enforcement officers by studying the effectiveness of crisis hotlines and annual mental health checks. This legislation is supported by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA), Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the National Association of Police Officers (NAPO), the Major County Sheriffs of America (MCSA), the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the National District Attorneys Association (NDAA), and the Sergeants Benevolent Association.
01.10.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after being renamed Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. The Congressman has been Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee since the 114th Congress. Representative Reichert also rejoins the Subcommittee on Human Resources and the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, both of which he chaired in previous Congresses. “I am honored to continue serving as Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee in my final year of Congress,” said Rep. Reichert. “Expanding and strengthening our trade relationships has been a top priority of mine since coming to Congress. Trade is a key economic driver for America and critical to my home state of Washington where almost 40 percent of our jobs are connected to trade. Through this position, I am committed to our current trade agreements and pursuing new opportunities for workers, farmers, and businesses.” Rep. Reichert is the first Member of Congress from Washington State to serve as Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. Rep. Reichert also represents Washington’s trade interests as a member of the President’s Export Council and as a Co-Chair of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Caucus, Services Caucus, and Japan Caucus.
01.09.2018	Washington, DC - In honor of National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement and spoke on the House floor thanking the law enforcement community. “Today, we have set aside a day to honor and recognize our dedicated law enforcement officers who selflessly put their lives on the line every day to protect our families here at home,” said Rep. Reichert. “We honor not only those who protect and serve us today, but we remember the brave men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice. For those in my community, we are deeply saddened by the loss we experienced this week when Pierce County Deputy Daniel McCartney lost his life in the line of duty. Officers all over the country, like Deputy McCartney, give up important time – time spent with families and loved ones – to serve and protect us. During my 33 years in law enforcement, I had the privilege of working with many of these men and women in King County, Washington every day. It is an incredible honor to know them and to have had the chance to serve with them, and I know that departments are like that across the country. Since serving in Congress, I have been dedicated to fighting for and championing efforts to provide law enforcement officers the resources they need and the recognition they so fully deserve. Please join me today, and every day, in thanking the men and women across the law enforcement community who have and continue to put their lives on the line to keep our families safe.” Rep. Reichert’s speech on the House floor recognizing National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day can be found HERE. Rep. Reichert has been a champion for law enforcement throughout his service in Congress. As co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, he has a platform to highlight their work and fight for their needs. He has vocally supported continued funding for the COPS Hiring and Project Safe Neighborhoods Programs, which are often times targeted for elimination or funding cuts during the appropriations process. Throughout his career, Rep. Reichert has also championed numerous pieces of legislation supporting the efforts of law enforcement. One of the most notable includes the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act (P.L. 114-12), which established the Blue Alert system for law enforcement agencies across the country to communicate with one another. This national alert system disseminates information between agencies to protect the public and speed up the apprehension of criminals who have seriously injured or killed law enforcement officers, or who have credibly threatened to do so. Other legislation he has advocated for is the POLICE Act (H.R. 2561), Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act (H.R. 2228), Probation Officer Protection Act (H.R. 1039), COPS Improvement and Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2318), Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act (H.R. 228), and many more.
01.09.2018	Washington, DC – Recently, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced the National Law Enforcement Museum Commemorative Coin Act (H.R. 4732). This bill authorizes the minting of a coin in commemoration of the opening of the National Law Enforcement Museum located in Washington, DC. The museum is expected to open in September of 2018 and is dedicated to highlighting and honoring the work of law enforcement - past and present. “I am proud to present legislation that honors the service and sacrifice of those who keep our families safe 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is an honor to sponsor this bill offering a commemorative coin that highlights the National Law Enforcement Museum in Washington, D.C. where the history of our family members who served is preserved for all to learn and remember their selfless sacrifice and dedication. I hope that my colleagues here in Congress will join Rep. Pascrell and I in showing appreciation for our law enforcement officers.”
01.08.2018	Washington, DC - Last night, Pierce County Deputy Daniel McCartney was shot and killed while responding to a home invasion call the department received. Deputy McCartney had served with the Pierce County Sheriff’s Department for 3 years, after serving in Aberdeen and Hoquiam. He was a Navy veteran and leaves behind his wife and three sons. A manhunt is currently underway throughout the area to find the second suspect in the case. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years and former Sheriff of King County, responded to the news. “Every day, our law enforcement officers put on a uniform, some in blue and others in green, that places a target on their back and when they head to work each day, they kiss their loved ones goodbye not knowing what they will encounter on their shift,” said Rep. Reichert. “These men and women show a level of bravery and courage that cannot be rivaled. Even in the face of increasing violence, they put their lives on the line every day to protect our families and I cannot be more grateful for their service and sacrifice." "The life we lost this morning hits close to home, not only because this happened in Washington but because I have lost many dear friends in similar situations while serving in the line of duty. There are no words to describe the heartbreak we face each time a new life is lost in the line of duty. Not only should we take this time to pray for the fallen officer’s family and the Pierce County Sheriff’s Department, but we should take a moment to thank our communities’ law enforcement officers and remember the sacrifices they make every day.”
01.04.2018	Washington, DC - Today, following the release of the Department of Interior’s Draft Proposed Program (DPP) for drilling in the Pacific and Atlantic regions, the Gulf of Mexico, and off the coast of Alaska, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement. “I am deeply concerned about the Administration’s proposal allowing for new oil and gas drilling opportunities in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, Gulf of Mexico, and off the coast of Alaska,” said Rep. Reichert. “This moves America in the wrong direction and has the potential to have a negative lasting effect on our oceans as well as the shorelines of states on these coasts. Our country is at the forefront of developing efficient and cost effective alternative energy technologies and we should continue to support innovation in this area. These energy solutions of the future must be a part of our energy plan.” Earlier this year, Rep. Reichert led a bi-partisan letter, with 100 of his colleagues, to Secretary Ryan Zinke asking him to reject proposals to open the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Regions to new offshore drilling and exploration.
12.28.2017	Washington, DC - In case you missed it, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) published an op-ed in the Tacoma News Tribune on DACA. "This issue transcends politics. It is about these children, their hope and their opportunity for a better life - a life free from uncertainty." Read the rest of the article HERE.
12.27.2017	Washington, DC – Following the report earlier this month from the Department of Defense’s Inspector General showing that the Military Services did not consistently submit convicted offenders’ fingerprint cards and final disposition reports to the FBI’s Next Generation Identification Database, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) issued a letter asking the Secretary of Defense James Mattis to immediately implement the OIG’s recommendations to prevent future reporting lapses. The bipartisan pair also requested an outline of the DOD’s plan to correct previous reporting errors. “As a former Sheriff and law enforcement officer for 33 years, I know how important it is to keep guns out of the hands of those who seek to do harm,�? said Rep. Reichert. “It is why we should do all we can to make sure our federal background check system is strong and effective, including ensuring relevant information is in the system. I am proud to join with Rep. Kilmer to urge the Department of Defense to quickly improve their background check reporting practices and to request specific information on how they plan to ensure no individual slips through the cracks.�? “The Texas mass-shooting, like too many other acts of gun violence, was preventable, but the government failed to do the simple paperwork required to keep guns out of the hands of convicted criminals,�? Rep. Kilmer said, “Everyone I have talked to in our community wants to see guns kept out of the hands of dangerous convicted criminals. Background checks are useless if the databases designed to prevent convicted violent criminals from getting guns aren’t up to date. Secretary Mattis shouldn’t waste another second to implement the Inspector General’s recommendations which could prevent future tragedies. The OIG found that the military’s failure to report convictions and to deliver fingerprints to the FBI was systemic. The OIG has conducted regular investigations identifying this issue since 1997. This most recent report found 601 of the 2502 fingerprint cards that the DOD was required to report on to the FBI were not submitted as required. That amounts to 24 percent. One of the unreported cases was the Air Force’s court-martialing of Devin P. Kelley who was convicted on two counts equivalent to felonies in the civil system stemming from a domestic violence incident. Had the Air Force properly reported the conviction, Devin Kelley would have failed an FBI background check, possibly preventing him from purchasing the guns and body armor he used to murder churchgoers at the First Baptist Church in Southerland Springs, Texas in one of the nation’s deadliest mass shootings in history earlier this year. The DOD OIG made several specific recommendations to address these deficiencies. For example, the OIG recommended that the Secretaries of the Army, Navy and Air Force ensure that all fingerprint cards and final disposition reports be promptly reported to the FBI. More broadly, the OIG recommended that the Secretaries of each of the military’s branches, as well as the Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence, and the Deputy Chief Management Officer immediately perform a comprehensive review of their criminal investigative databases and files to ensure all required fingerprint cards and final disposition reports for qualifying offenses at least to 1998 have been submitted to the FBI in compliance with the DOD and FBI requirements. In addition to complying with federal background check reporting requirements, Reps. Reichert and Kilmer supported the Veteran Urgent Access to Mental Healthcare Act, which would increase the mental health care options available to veterans with an “other than honorable�? discharge. Last month, the House of Representatives passed the legislation. Under current law, service members separated from the military with an “other than honorable discharge�? are not allowed to seek care at VA facilities, which bars many veterans in need of mental health care from receiving it. The OIG’s report can be read in full here. The letter Kilmer and Reichert sent to Secretary Mattis is available in full here.
12.21.2017	Washington, DC - Today, the House passed a continuing resolution (H.R. 1370) to extend funding to keep critical government programs fully operational through January 19, 2018 and avert a government shutdown. “Today, I voted to keep the government open as Congress continues to craft a long-term solution to government spending,” said Rep. Reichert. “While this discussion is vitally important, it must not come at the expense of critical programs that provide for our national defense, veterans, children, and Americans across the country. In particular, as Co-Chair of the Children’s Health Care Caucus, I am pleased that we provided additional funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers. We cannot allow a shutdown of programs on which so many rely while we determine a longer-path forward.” Today’s bill includes funding for all government programs through January 19, 2018 in addition to supplemental funds for missile defense and vital Navy ship repairs. In addition, the bill provides additional funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers through March 31, 2018. The bill also extends Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) authorities to January 19th and provides additional funding for the Veterans Choice Program. Importantly, the bill includes a waiver to the Pay-Go requirements for the tax bill that passed Congress. This means the Pay-Go rule’s automatic spending cuts will not occur.
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today the House passed by a vote of 227-203 the final version of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. With passage in the Senate, this legislation will be sent to the President’s desk for a signature. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released this statement following final passage. “Today is truly historic,” Rep. Reichert said. “We accomplished something that has not been successfully done since 1986. We passed a tax bill to make our tax code work for the American people. It puts more money in your pocket through lower tax rates and an increased standard deduction. To grow wages and jobs here at home, we provide tax relief for businesses big and small. While I know these provisions will benefit the American people, I am deeply disappointed that this Conference report rejected my request to remove drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from the bill. Through my years on the Ways and Means Committee, I have consistently evaluated each tax proposal on what it would mean for families and for our economic growth. I am proud to support this bill because it passes this test and I look forward to seeing America better off for it.” The final text of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can be found HERE. Downloads » Tax Cuts & Jobs Act Highlights.pdf
12.15.2017	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released this statement following the release of the Conference Committee's Report on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “With today’s release of the final tax bill, we are moving closer to reforming our tax code for the benefit of the American people," said Rep. Reichert. "As I review this bill, I will continue to hold it to the standards I have considered throughout this process. The final result must create jobs in America, increase paychecks, and put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans. While we have made important improvements to the tax provisions of the bill for American families along the way, I am deeply disappointed the Conference Committee rejected my request to remove language that opens the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling.”
12.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) vote on net neutrality this afternoon. "While we share the goal of maintaining an open Internet, I am concerned about the FCC’s decision to eliminate the bright-line rules that have prohibited the blocking of legal content, slowing down of services, and the creation of paid fast lanes," said Rep. Reichert. "These net neutrality principles have helped to keep the Internet a source of communication, creativity, learning, and job creation for every American. Congress should work on a bipartisan basis to ensure the Internet remains open, free from interference, and a source of innovation."
12.07.2017	Washington, DC - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement following the vote: “As the former Sheriff of King County and law enforcement officer for 33 years, I understand the importance of keeping guns out of the hands of those who seek to do harm. I voted to maintain Second Amendment rights and make critical improvements to our national background check system,” Rep. Reichert said. “Now, after passing a federal background check and meeting a state’s legal requirements for possessing a firearm, an individual will be able to carry their firearm in any state. This bill also makes much needed improvements to the FBI’s background check system through increased accountability with federal agencies, to ensure no individuals slip through the cracks.” Rep. Reichert has fought continuously throughout his career, from his time in law enforcement and now as a Member of Congress, to crack down on gun and gang-related violence, including supporting programs such as Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring program. These programs are often targeted for elimination or funding cuts during the appropriations process. Rep. Reichert has championed the Project Safe Neighborhoods program, a federal grant program to combat gang violence and gun-related crimes. In September, the House passed his amendment to increase funding for this program to $20 million for fiscal year 2018. In addition, the Department of Justice (DOJ) recently announced that PSN will be the centerpiece of their initiative to combat violent crime and gun violence. To support the COPS Hiring Program, as co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Reichert, along with his co-chair, Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the program. Rep. Reichert and Rep. Pascrell also sent a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee this year encouraging them to include funding for the COPS Hiring Program. Over 180 other Members of Congress signed this letter as well in support of the program. Most recently, in September 2017, Rep. Reichert secured funding for the COPS Hiring Program on the House floor from Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) for Fiscal Year 2018. Chairman Culberson committed to securing this funding. Prior to the Congressman’s efforts, funding for the program had been completely eliminated.
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), released the following statement after sending a letter to Congressional Leadership, urging the House of Representatives to take up a legislative solution to address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program before the end of the year. “I am proud to join with my Republican colleagues to urge swift passage for a permanent legislative fix for the DACA program,” Rep. Reichert said. “It is essential that we find a solution before the end of the year. These children were brought to this great country by no fault of their own. It is not right to punish them for this - it is against the American DNA. This issue transcends politics. It is about these kids and the certainty they need to hope and dream for a brighter future. The clock is ticking. We must act now.” Rep. Reichert has been a strong advocate for protecting DACA recipients. This year alone, he has cosponsored several pieces of legislation and signed letters urging Congressional Leadership and the Administration to give DACA recipients certainty and the chance to remain in the country they know. Rep. Reichert is a cosponsor of the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which allows individuals who meet the standards of the DACA program to remain in the U.S. without fear of deportation for three years while Congress works toward a more permanent solution. Additionally, he cosponsored the Recognizing America’s Children (RAC) Act – a proposed solution to the impending deadline that would give DACA participants a chance to earn legal status. Lastly, Rep. Reichert cosponsored the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training (ENLIST) Act that allows undocumented immigrants who served in the Armed Forces to become lawful permanent residents and apply for citizenship.
12.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to send H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, to conference with the Senate, following Senate passage of their version of tax reform late last week. During this time representatives from both chambers will have the opportunity to resolve the differences between the two plans. “Now that the Senate has passed their version of the tax plan, I am pleased we are moving forward to reform our tax code to ensure it works for the American people," Rep. Reichert said. It is my hope that there will be a robust conference discussion and in working through the differences between the two plans, improvements will be made. This includes protecting the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from drilling. The plan must also create jobs in America, increase paychecks, and put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans. I remain committed to a final plan that allows Washingtonians and Americans across the country to keep more of their hard earned money and gets our economy booming again.”
11.30.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Republican Members of Congress sent a letter to Speaker Ryan and Senate Majority Leader McConnell urging them to prevent consideration of any proposal that would allow oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. “As a life-long resident of the Pacific Northwest, I have a great appreciation for and interest in protecting our nation’s wilderness, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge,” said Rep. Reichert. “For many years, the Refuge has been the target of new oil drilling opportunities. This threatens the home of countless animal and plant species that depend on this unique environment to survive. For these reasons, we should continue fighting for the protection of this land. Protecting these natural gems for future generations to use and enjoy has and always will be one of my top priorities.” “Serving as good stewards of our environment is something each and every one of us are called to do. Protecting our nation’s open spaces and wild places unites us as Americans,” said Rep. Fitzpatrick. “I’m proud to stand with my colleagues in support of this and urge others to join us in the defense of America’s wilderness.” “There has been a long history of bipartisan conservation and stewardship efforts to protect the Refuge, and I call upon Congress to maintain these efforts and not include any changes in the tax bill,” said Rep. Costello. This letter has been supported by several groups. “We applaud these House champions for standing up for the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and, in the spirit of Teddy Roosevelt, continuing the historic and steadfast bipartisan opposition to drilling in this iconic wild place,” said Adam Kolton, Executive Director of Alaska Wilderness League. “It is clear that using tax legislation to push drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is increasingly unpopular in Congress and it has long been opposed by a majority of Americans. Arctic Refuge drilling should not be a part of any final tax bill.” “We applaud these Representatives for recognizing that protecting the Arctic Refuge from drilling matters to anyone who cares about our wild spaces-- no matter which side of the aisle they’re on," said Mike Brune, Executive Director of the Sierra Club. "If drill rigs make it into the Arctic Refuge, no park, forest or monument boundary will be able to keep them out.” “Since it was first protected by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, defending the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from oil and gas drilling has always been a bipartisan effort,” said David Yarnold, President and CEO of the National Audubon Society. “The Representatives who have signed on to this letter have taken an important stand at a critical time to defend the most prolific bird nursery. The birds and people we represent at Audubon thank you and will support you in your fight to ensure language opening the Arctic Refuge doesn’t become law.” “We are grateful to these representatives for standing up against this backdoor scheme to sell off a national treasure," said Jamie Williams, President of The Wilderness Society. "For nearly 40 years, there has been bipartisan support for defending the Arctic Refuge, and it is bipartisanship that can save one of our last wild and untouched places for future generations of Americans.” “We commend these House Republicans for their leadership in opposing the Senate’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge tax bill scam,” said Jamie Rappaport Clark, President and CEO of Defenders of Wildlife. “Opening the irreplaceable Arctic wildlife refuge to drilling has nothing to do with tax reform or raising revenue. It will only destroy vital habitat for imperiled polar bears, migrating caribou, musk oxen. wolves, and millions of migratory birds.” The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge was established in 1960 in northern Alaska under President Eisenhower. A public land order was signed, establishing this 8.9 million acre Refuge. The area overflows with flora and fauna in a pristine, untouched landscape where varieties of wildlife thrive in the Alaskan wilderness. Earlier this year, Members also sent a letter urging the House Budget Committee not to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling in the budget resolution.
11.30.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday afternoon, Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) met with Mexico’s Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal along with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady. Following the meeting, Rep. Reichert shared: “I had the pleasure of meeting with Secretary Guajardo to discuss the important friendship and economic relationship we have with Mexico. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, I am committed to strengthening this partnership, creating new opportunities for U.S. exports, and expanding the trade ties between our countries. As we work with the administration to update NAFTA, I am grateful for the opportunity to represent Washington State and America's interests with our neighbors.”
11.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the House passed H.R. 2228, the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017, which would help agencies create and improve mental health services for law enforcement officers. The bill was introduced earlier this year by Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Susan Brooks (R-IN), Val Demings (D-FL), Doug Collins (R-GA), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ). As co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Reichert is dedicated to ensuring that our law enforcement is taken care of and given the resources they need to do their jobs and maintain their health.“Having served in law enforcement for 33 years, I know first-hand the importance of providing critical mental health and wellness services for our first responders,” said Reichert. “Our nation’s law enforcement face significant trauma on a regular basis as they dedicate their lives to keeping our communities safe. We have seen how these services help our military members, and now it is time that we provide the same help for those who serve us here at home. I am proud that the House of Representatives passed this essential bipartisan legislation today to bring much needed health care to those who put their lives on the line each day for our safety.” “Our police officers face a culture of silence when it comes to mental health challenges, and they need better access to mental health services to help them cope with unforgettable situations,” said Brooks. “In the Fifth District, Boone County Sheriff Mike Nielsen’s daughter, also a police officer, tried to take her own life because she was struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after responding to a case involving the murder of a mother and her 4-year-old son. Nielsen’s daughter did not have access to services that could help her process and cope with the horrific situation she faced that day. The passage of the Law Enforcement Mental Wellness Act through the House of Representatives today ensures that we are one step closer to supporting the men and women in law enforcement with the resources they need to stay healthy while selflessly serving our communities and keeping us safe.” “As a former Chief of Police, with 27 years in law enforcement, I know all too well that our law enforcement officers respond to some of the most horrific scenes and situations without regard to their own personal safety,” said Demings. “This important piece of legislation would ensure that agencies are better equipped and officers have the resources needed to more effectively deal with the stress and mental health challenges associated with the job.” “As the son of a Georgia State Trooper, I never forget that members of the law enforcement community voluntarily enter dangerous, stressful situations each day, and they do this for the sake of their neighbors’” said Collins. “It’s my privilege to join the House in voting to support the unique wellness needs of these men and women. They continue to invest in making our communities safer, and the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act invests in providing practical resources to support officers in their work.” “We all know the brave men and women in law enforcement put themselves in difficult, dangerous, and sometimes life-threatening situations every day,” said Pascrell. “It is absolutely critical that we provide our law enforcement officers with all the resources they need to effectively do their job to keep our communities safe. We must work to decrease the stress on law enforcement officers, which can have a big impact on officers’ physical and mental well-being. I am pleased that the House passed our bipartisan bill to ensure officer mental wellness is a priority from the day of hire to the day they retire.”The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the Department of Justice, Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop resources to equip local law enforcement agencies to address mental health challenges faced by officers. The bill would also make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs, develop training for mental health providers specific to law enforcement mental health needs, and support law enforcement officers by studying the effectiveness of crisis hotlines and annual mental health checks. This legislation is supported by the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA), Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the National Association of Police Officers (NAPO), the Major County Sheriffs of America (MCSA), the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the National District Attorneys Association (NDAA), and the Sergeants Benevolent Association.
11.28.2017	Washington, DC - Representative Dave Reichert released the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) recent announcement on net neutrality. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have consistently supported the principle of net neutrality," Rep. Reichert said. "To me this principle means Washingtonians and their families are free to make their own decisions when using the Internet not having their choices limited by the slowing down, degradation, or blocking of online content by outside groups. As the FCC moves forward it is my hope that any action taken will preserve these protections for online consumers and keep the Internet open, free from interference, and make sure it stays a source of innovation and job creation.”
11.21.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that $98 million in grants will be awarded to 179 law enforcement agencies across the country through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. In response, Congressman Dave Reichert, a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, released the following statement about the COPS Hiring Program - a program he has consistently championed and fought to protect from elimination throughout his career. “I am proud that today law enforcement agencies across the country will find out they can now hire the officers they need through the COPS Hiring Program,” Rep. Reichert said. “I know firsthand how important community policing is to reducing crime, improving quality of life, keeping officers safe, and maintaining relationships between law enforcement and the communities they serve. These community oriented policing grants are essential to bridging the ever widening gap between police officers and their communities." "This is why I have fought to fund this program and keep it focused on supporting the cops on the street and not on local immigration politics. Grant standards based on federal immigration policies ultimately punish cops by withholding federal grant money in an effort to force local governments to change immigration policies. Through this grant funding, law enforcement departments across the country will be able to hire new personnel to assist with the ever-increasing work load these officers face. It is essential that we continue to provide our law enforcement officers and first responders with the resources they need to continue protecting our communities and keeping our families safe.” To learn more about the COPS Hiring Program, see the Attorney General’s release here. Rep. Reichert has fought continuously throughout his career for funding of the COPS Hiring Program to ensure it is regularly protected and strengthened. This program is often times targeted for elimination or funding cuts during the appropriations process. As co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Reichert, along with his co-chair, Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the COPS Hiring Program. Rep. Reichert and Rep. Pascrell also sent a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee this year encouraging them to include funding for the COPS Hiring Program. Over 180 other Members of Congress signed this letter as well in support of the program. In September 2017, Rep. Reichert secured funding for the COPS Hiring Program on the House floor from Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) for Fiscal Year 2018. Chairman Culberson committed to securing this funding. Prior to the Congressman’s efforts, funding for the program had been completely eliminated. In relation, Rep. Reichert has also championed the Project Safe Neighborhoods program, a federal grant program to combat gang violence and gun-related crimes. In September, the House passed his amendment to increase funding for this program to $20 million for fiscal year 2018.
11.17.2017	Washington, DC - Rep. Reichert released the following statement about the Icicle Work Group. "As the Congressman for Washington’s 8th Congressional District, I have met and continue to work with the Icicle Work Group, hearing more about their goals and all their work throughout the district. Convened in 2012, this group of diverse stakeholders, from around the state, has come together through several meetings to find collaborative and lasting solutions for water resources in Icicle Creek that will meet the needs of all involved. The goals of the work group include protecting fishing for all parties and improving stream flow, sustainability at the federal fish hatchery, supply of domestic water, and reliability of agricultural producers and stream habitat. Through the Yakima Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan Work Group, we have seen how important it is to work with a diverse group of stakeholders, participate in a community-driven dialogue, and have a process to address water resource needs. I encourage all the local stakeholders to continue engaging and talking with one another to find a path forward with the Icicle Work Group that accomplishes these goals as well as ensures environmental protections remain to preserve our pristine wilderness and precious wildlife habitat for future generations.”
11.17.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 4419, the Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act of 2017, to reform the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and to authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. The legislation authorizes a Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region.“After years of discussion with local stakeholders, I am proud that we have finally come together on a forward-thinking plan that will work to protect the future economic health of the Yakima Basin and the surrounding regions. It does so by providing the water needed for our agricultural, irrigation, environmental, and tribal interests; local businesses; and communities to thrive,” said Rep. Reichert. “There is more work to be done to perfect this plan. I am committed to achieving a final product that will give agricultural producers the confidence they need to continue operating and expanding in the area, while also addressing the concerns of conservationists and local residents. I look forward to continued work with Congressman Newhouse and the Yakima Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan to move this legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk.” “I am grateful to Speaker Paul Ryan and House Natural Resource Committee Chairman Rob Bishop for working with me and Rep. Dave Reichert to craft this legislation that streamlines the process for new water infrastructure projects and authorizes the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Updating and modernizing our water supply infrastructure is critical to meet the current needs and future growth of communities across the nation. The Yakima Basin Plan is a national model for collaborative water infrastructure planning, taking into consideration the needs of agriculture, conservationists, residents, and a diverse group of stakeholders. We need to get this done.” “Rep. Reichert and Rep. Newhouse have worked hard on this issue and it clearly shows they care about the people of Washington state,” House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) said. For the text of the legislation, click here.BACKGROUND:In the 114th Congress, legislation authorizing the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III (H.R. 4686) introduced by Rep. Reichert and Rep. Newhouse ran into an earmark issue in the House. This revised legislation allows authorization of the Yakima Basin project consistent with the House rules. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, Washington must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit the state. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: - Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. - Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. - Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. - Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributariImplement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. - Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin.
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – This afternoon, Rep. Reichert and his colleagues in the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today, we passed more than a tax bill. We passed a bill to allow families across Washington keep more of their hard-earned money and to give businesses the chance to grow and hire more workers. We are providing more opportunities for the apple grower in Wenatchee, the tech entrepreneur in Issaquah, and the growing family in Maple Valley. They all deserve a tax code that works for them. A tax code that is simpler and fairer,” Rep. Reichert said. “Throughout this process, I have held every proposed idea to the standard of will this plan create jobs in America, increase paychecks, and put more money in the pockets of hard-working Americans. I am proud to say, this plan meets this high-standard and as a result it will change lives, energize our country, and get our economy booming again.” Under this plan, a median income family of 4 in Washington’s Eighth District, will be receiving a $3,654 tax cut. And in Washington State as a whole, the Tax Foundation has found that 19,968 new full-time jobs will be created. To see Rep. Reichert’s floor speech on H.R. 1 click here.
11.14.2017	Washington, DC - This evening, Congressman Reichert joined his colleagues on both sides of the aisle in passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, which authorizes funding for Department of Defense (DoD) programs, equipment, and personnel for the next fiscal year. “Today, the House upheld its constitutional responsibility to defend and ensure freedom for the American people by passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The NDAA gives our troops the essential resources they need to protect both themselves and our great country,” Rep. Reichert said. “As threats continue to change and grow around the world, we must support our military by making sure our service members are fully equipped with the proper tools they need to keep us safe. This year, I am proud that our troops will receive the largest pay raise in eight years, surviving military spouses will be provided for, and crumbling infrastructure will be restored.” “We must recognize the sacrifices made by our soldiers who put their lives on the line every day to protect our freedoms and their families who sacrifice so much. This is why I consistently vote to provide our troops and their families with the necessary resources and care they have earned and deserve. It is essential that we continue to support those who bear the burden of keeping our country safe and protecting our national security. I applaud my colleagues for passing this critical legislation as we send a clear message to the world that we will remain the world’s strongest military force.”
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), and his colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee finished a week-long discussion and voted on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “From years of traveling around Washington’s Eighth District, from the suburbs of Issaquah to the farmlands of Chelan, I hear the same thing from middle income, hardworking taxpayers. They want to keep more of their hard-earned dollars, provide for their families, and give back to their communities,” Rep. Reichert said. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is bold and changes the status-quo giving relief to families and making the tax code more competitive, so our businesses can grow, hire more workers, and invest here at home. This will get our economy booming and lead to the creation of more jobs across our communities. I remember the feeling I had when I got my first job. I not only felt a sense of accomplishment, but I had more hope for the future. This plan will help more people experience this hope and put more money back in their pocket, which is why I supported this bill.” New research has been released about the bill that shows how communities across Washington State and Washington’s Eighth District will greatly benefit under this plan. According to the Tax Foundation, 21,875 new full time jobs will be created in Washington State. Additionally, in the Eighth District, a middle income, 4-person household will receive a $3,654 tax cut from these reforms.
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, joined Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) and several other members in introducing the bipartisan Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2017 (H.R. 4318). By suspending or reducing tariffs, this bill relieves U.S. manufacturers of added costs that have hampered their ability to produce more American products and expand their business. Chairman Reichert recently held a hearing in the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee on the issue entitled, “Miscellaneous Tariff Bill: Providing Relief to U.S. Manufacturers Through the New MTB Process.” “American manufacturers and the products they make are the best in the world,” said Chairman Reichert. “But steep tariffs make it difficult for them to reach their full potential. The MTB will cut unnecessary costs for American businesses and allow these job-creators to expand, better compete globally, and hire more American workers in Washington State and across the country.” In 2016, Congress passed the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) that established an open and transparent process for consideration of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB). Over the past year, American businesses have been able to petition the International Trade Commission (ITC) for tariff relief on their products, so long as it met the requirements outlined in the AMCA. Based on the petition requests and recommendations from the ITC, this legislation provides tariff relief on products for hundreds of businesses across the country.
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) sent a bipartisan letter, with the support of 14 of their colleagues, to the Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, opposing a recent proposal issued by the National Park Service to significantly increase the peak season entrance fees at 17 of the Nation’s most visited national parks. The letter highlights concerns over the potential impacts to visitor access and the economies of gateway communities and calls on the Secretary to work with Congress to develop a proposal to responsibly address the maintenance backlog.“The proposed increase would roughly triple the cost of visiting these parks during the peak season,” wrote the Members. “This increase would have a profound effect on both those seeking to visit the parks, as well as the gateway communities who depend on these visitors to support local businesses and economies. We believe that all options should be on the table and urge the Administration to continue working with Congress in a bipartisan manner to develop a comprehensive solution, including increasing federal investments that will generate the kind of revenue needed to meaningfully address the backlog without impacting visitation.” The Members also highlight the National Park Service Legacy Act (H.R. 2584) as a bipartisan strategy to address the maintenance backlog without significantly increasing entrance fees and urge Secretary Zinke to consider this legislation as part of a responsible, long-term approach to repairing roads, visitor facilities, trails, and other park structures. The Legacy Act would provide dedicated annual federal funding from unobligated offshore and onshore mineral royalties to pay down the $11.3 billion maintenance backlog. The NPS is accepting public comments on the proposed fee increase through November 23rd, but the letter calls on the Secretary to extend the comment period to allow individuals sufficient time to weigh in. The full text of the letter can be found here.
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Reichert and Larsen released the following statement about the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders' meetings taking place in Vietnam this week. “As Co-Chairs of the Congressional APEC Caucus, we hope the APEC Leaders’ Week in Vietnam is another successful marker for APEC. Washington state has benefited tremendously from engagement through APEC. With 40 percent of jobs tied to trade, Washington is one of the most trade-dependent states in the country. Greater access to this growing region of the world will greatly benefit all Americans, particularly, American farmers, manufacturers, workers, and small businesses seeking to compete, grow, and hire more workers here at home. Our thoughts are also with all of those in Vietnam that have been impacted by Typhoon Damrey, which struck right before the APEC summit.” This week, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders’ meetings take place in Vietnam. APEC is a forum for 21 countries bordering the Pacific Ocean to promote trade liberalization and investment between Asia-Pacific countries. The United States is a founding member. To highlight the importance of APEC, Representatives Reichert and Larsen recently launched the bipartisan House APEC Caucus. Both Members also supported legislation to reauthorize the APEC Business Travel Card that was signed into law last week.
11.03.2017	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported and the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3922, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act. The bill authorizes a five-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), a two-year extension of the Community Health Center Fund, and a two-year extension of the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program along with additional public health programs, including the National Health Service Corps and the Special Diabetes Program for Type I Diabetes. “Nearly nine million children from low and middle income families across the country depend on care provided by the CHIP program,” said Rep. Reichert. “Now families will have the certainty their children will continue to receive quality health services, including dental care, prescription medication, and regular doctor’s visits.” “With many rural communities throughout our region, funding for Community Health Centers and the Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education program will benefit countless patients on the eastern side of the Cascades and throughout the 8th District. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take swift action in passing legislation to continue these vital health programs.” Highlights: CHIP Reauthorization: Extends CHIP program for five years - through Fiscal Year 2022 Federal funding will increase from $21.5 billion in FY2018 to $25.9 billion in FY2022. Community Health Center Fund: Extends for two-years at current funding levels ($3.6 billion per year) the Community Health Center Fund. In 2015, community health centers employed nearly 190,000 people and served over 24 million patients. One in 13 people nationwide rely on a health center for their health care needs. Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education: Extends for two-years the THCGME program and more than doubles the funding to $127 million per year. This is a residency program for primary care physicians and dentists who are based out of community health centers. The program trains primary care physicians in these community-based and often rural settings to help attract the next generation of physicians to serve in rural communities and address physician shortages. For further background on the bill, click HERE
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert, (R-WA), and his colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee introduced the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This legislation marks a once in a generation opportunity to revamp the tax code and increase paychecks for middle class families. “It’s time to get our economy booming again,” said Rep. Reichert. “Families across Washington and Americans around the country want more money in their pockets, higher wages, and to have the confidence they can save for their future. Today, after years of fighting to give American families a better deal, we have released a tax plan that puts American workers and families first, supports our job-creators, and strengthens America’s competitiveness across the globe.” “Freedom is the American way, but the current tax code is holding us back threatening our livelihood and our future. We must rework our tax code so it is working for the American people, not the other way around. Our bold, job-creating tax plan will free Americans to focus on the things in life that matter and position American businesses to expand, compete, and hire more American workers here at home. This is our chance - there is too much at stake to let this once in a generation opportunity slip away.” The full text of the The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can be found HERE. A section-by-section summary of the bill can be found HERE. Congressman Reichert and Members of the Ways and Means Committee are scheduled to begin marking up the bill on Monday, November 6th.
10.27.2017	This week, the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), held a hearing to discuss the benefits of providing tariff relief to U.S. manufacturers and to examine the new and transparent process for the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) – legislation that helps U.S. manufacturers compete globally and create more jobs at home. For decades, Congress has passed MTBs to temporarily reduce or suspend tariffs on certain imported products that are not produced in the United States. This legislation lowers the cost of imports, boosting American manufacturers’ competitiveness and ultimately lowering prices for consumers. In 2016, the Ways and Means Committee led a bipartisan effort to update the process for considering temporary tariff reductions and suspensions through the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016 (AMCA). The AMCA passed both chambers with near unanimous support and was signed into law in May 2016. As Chairman Reichert said: “Under the new MTB process, companies petition the independent, non-partisan International Trade Commission – not individual Members of Congress – for tariff relief. The new process is open and transparent, and establishes an opportunity for public comment. It provides predictability for our businesses while complying with House rules.” The Subcommittee heard from business leaders from across the country about the positive impact this updated MTB process is having on their companies. When asked what her company will do with the savings and revenues generated from tariff relief, Gowan Agricultural Relations Director Cindy Smith said that the profits go to where they should – the workers: “We have a profit sharing program with our employees – 700 employees. Anything I could do to reduce my costs benefits my employees. It allows me to continue to provide healthcare coverage. It allows me to pay bonuses. It allows us to give raises.” Michael Ratchford, Government Relations Associate at technology company W.L. Gore & Associates, praised the new MTB process as a fair and transparent way for U.S. businesses to seek needed tariff relief: “The AMCA creates an open process where stakeholders and the public can monitor filed petitions, comment, and better understand how petitions are evaluated. The new MTB process is significantly more transparent than previous iterations and ensures that stakeholders have ample opportunity to be actively involved during the vetting process, before being considered by Congress.” Ed McAssey, Chief Operating Officer of Lasko Products headquartered in West Chester, Pennsylvania, explained how the MTB will help Lasko and its employees compete on a level playing field with Chinese manufacturers: “We are in a business of pennies and can sometimes lose a fan sale to overseas competitors due to a cost differential of 20 to 30 cents. The duty relief provided by the MTB on motor assemblies and related parts enables us to compete with suppliers in China who do not incur the costs of livable wages, health insurance, and retirement contributions that we provide to our employees.” Throughout the hearing, Members talked about the success of the updated MTB process and the benefits that the recommended tariff relief will have on their states. Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) told a story about Topeka-based company, Goodyear Tires. Goodyear is seeking relief through the new MTB process for certain tire molds that are not produced anywhere in the United States. The ITC recommended that these molds be included in MTB legislation, which would allow Goodyear to import them without having to incur a pointless tariff, keeping the company globally competitive and employing hundreds of hardworking Kansans. The Congresswoman said: “This new MTB process … [is] increasing our competitiveness abroad while creating and saving jobs here at home.” Rep. George Holding (R-NC) talked about the economic impact that the MTB will have in North Carolina: “North Carolina has more MTBs recommended by the ITC than any other state. Of the 1,800 petitions of the ITC, over 330 of those were submitted by North Carolina businesses. Those petitions estimate after tax savings of $70 million in 2018 alone. Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) acknowledged that the MTB is necessary and has had tremendous impacts on American businesses. With respect to the broader trade agenda, Mr. Paulsen asked the panelists: “Do you believe that it is important for the United States to maintain its existing trade agreements and to also work on negotiating additional agreements?” Ms. Smith responded: “We are totally supportive of anything that lets U.S. growers sell their products overseas. So I would say: yes, the trade agreements we have in place are very critical for agriculture. Any work we do on trade agreements we should first look at, you know, what is the impact to U.S. business, right, and make sure we do no harm to U.S. business.” Chairman Reichert closed the hearing by emphatically committing to quick action to implement the ITC’s recommendations for tariff relief that U.S. manufacturers need to better compete around the world: “[Miscellaneous Tariff Bills] provide so much for, not only your companies, but the revenue you generate. It goes back into your companies to your employees and then even out into the community and … finally to the benefit of U.S. consumers for less expensive products. This is a priority for us to complete this year, and its timely renewal is critical.” Ways and Means Committee is committed to moving swiftly on legislation to deliver tariff relief to U.S. businesses and consumers. CLICK HERE to learn more about this week's hearing.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), held a hearing entitled, “Miscellaneous Tariff Bill: Providing Relief to U.S. Manufacturers Through the New MTB Process.” The hearing addressed the potential economic benefits to U.S. manufacturers and consumers of providing temporary tariff relief through the new MTB process on imported products not produced in the United States. The Ways and Means Committee is preparing legislation to implement recommendations made by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in its final report. Click HERE to watch Chairman Reichert’s opening remarks and the full Trade Subcommittee hearing. Below are Chairman Reichert’s opening remarks as prepared: Good afternoon. The Subcommittee will come to order. Welcome to the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill. Before hearing from our witnesses, I’d like to make a few points. For decades, Congress has considered bipartisan legislation to temporarily suspend or reduce tariffs on certain imported products not made in the United States through legislation that has become known as the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill or “MTB.” The MTB is designed to boost the competitiveness of American manufacturers by lowering the cost of imported inputs and in some cases, finished goods, without harming domestic firms that produce competing products. Many companies in my home state of Washington have relied on the MTB, and I know that many of my colleagues have similar stories from their districts. Our manufacturers have used the savings from past MTBs to strengthen their competitive edge, support the creation of domestic manufacturing jobs, increase U.S. production, and contribute to the economic growth of the United States. But the last MTB expired in 2012 and left American manufacturers without a process to help them cut costs. This undermined the ability of our manufacturers to provide more domestic jobs and damaged their global competitiveness. Last year, Congress took action and passed overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation to create a new and transparent process for providing tariff relief to U.S. businesses and consumers. Under the new MTB process, companies petition the independent, non-partisan International Trade Commission—not individual Members of Congress—for tariff relief. The new process is open and transparent, and establishes an opportunity for public comment. It provides predictability for our businesses while complying with House rules. The ITC kicked off the new MTB process last October, launching a new, publicly accessible portal for the filing of petitions and public comments. This August, after lengthy analysis, the ITC provided its final recommendations to Congress on more than 2,500 petitions. Of those, the ITC has recommended that more than 1,800 petitions be included in MTB legislation. I commend the ITC for its tremendous effort and dedication in successfully bringing the new MTB process to life. And I thank the Commerce Department and Customs and Border Protection as well for its invaluable work. Now, Congress must act to consider an MTB bill and deliver long-awaited tariff relief to our manufacturers. The Committee is doing its part by reviewing the ITC’s final report and preparing legislation to implement the ITC’s recommendations. I am eager to hear from our witnesses today about how tariff relief provided through the new process will benefit their businesses, make them more competitive, create jobs, and grow our economy.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after he joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution. “Today, the House passed and I supported a budget that puts America on a path toward more jobs and bigger paychecks,” said Rep. Reichert. “By getting this budget across the finish line, we are one step closer to a once in a generation tax overhaul that will relieve families of financial burdens, bring money and jobs back home from overseas, put Americans in a better place to succeed as individuals and as a nation, and get our economy booming again. As the reconciliation process moves forward, I will continue to champion the issues I have fought for throughout my career, including protecting ANWR from drilling.”
10.23.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 504, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017, which is identical to bipartisan legislation introduced in the House this year by Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Dan Donovan (R-NY), and Rick Larsen (D-WA). The legislation permanently reauthorizes the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC) program, which eases travel for those conducting business in the APEC region. APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim countries including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. Nearly 30,000 U.S. citizens currently hold cards through the ABTC program, including more than 1,000 in Washington State. “The future lies in the Asia-Pacific region,” said Rep. Reichert. “Government officials and our business men and women must be able to engage with the world’s largest growing consumer-base living in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation member countries. The ABTC program is used by 1,000 Washington residents alone and has proven successful in facilitating travel and making it easier for Americans to do business in this critical region. I am proud to have worked on this bipartisan, bicameral legislation and pleased my colleagues in the House voted to send it to the President’s desk.” Background on the APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) program: The ABTC program allows business travelers and government officials with business in APEC countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports, which saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CPB). The program runs entirely on user fees and costs nothing to taxpayers. Applicants must pay a $70 fee, must be U.S. citizens, and must pre-enroll in a U.S. trusted traveler program like Global Entry. Eligible applicants must be a “verified business person” engaged in APEC business – i.e., engaged in the trade of goods, provision of services, or conduct of investment activities in the APEC region – or a U.S. government official engaged in government activities in the APEC region. Under the APEC Business Travel Cards Act, the authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018 – meaning that no new cards can be issued after that date, and all cards will expire by 2021, after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries. The legislation passed in the House today permanently extends that authority, while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. This legislation was introduced by in the Senate by Senators Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and Steve Daines (R-MT). Other organizations supporting the effort to reauthorize the ABTC program include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Asia Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, U.S. Council for International Business, National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Travel Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, Global Business Travel Association, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, National Center for APEC, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, Hawaii Tourism Authority, Chamber of Commerce Hawaii, and the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. The full text of the legislation is available here.
10.13.2017	Washington, DC –This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Congressman Daniel Donovan (R-NY) introduced the Reach Every Mother and Child Act (H.R. 4022), a bold, bipartisan legislative initiative to accelerate the reduction of preventable maternal, newborn and childhood deaths worldwide. “We have made incredible progress in improving maternal care and reducing preventable child deaths around the globe,” said Rep. Reichert. “But better is not good enough. The Reach Act will give the world’s most in-need families the tools and resources to climb their way out of extreme poverty, reduce infant mortality, and focus on building their communities. With a continued focus on reaching more mothers and children, we can save countless lives and strengthen security and stability across the globe.”Rep. McCollum said, “Despite significant progress in improving global access to quality health services for mothers, children, and newborns, hundreds of thousands of women continue to die each year of preventable pregnancy and childbirth related causes. Millions of children don’t live to see their fifth birthday. Continued U.S. leadership is essential, and the Reach Act will coordinate resources and strategies that will achieve our goal of ending preventable maternal and child deaths within a generation. I am proud to build on our government’s strong, bipartisan legacy of leadership by partnering with Rep. Dave Reichert, Rep. Barbara Lee, and Rep. Dan Donovan on this important legislation.” “While we’ve made tremendous strides in reducing the maternal and child mortality rate, more work remains. We can and must continue to make progress is ending these tragic, preventable and unnecessary deaths,” said Rep. Barbara Lee. “The REACH Act is a lifesaving bill that will uplift the most vulnerable and create a healthier, safer and more stable world for everyone.”Rep. Donovan said, “Progress has been made in helping mothers and children across the globe access the health services they need, but too many preventable deaths still occur. Regardless of ideology, I think we can all agree that no child anywhere should die of something as simple as diarrhea. The United States has been a leader in helping the most vulnerable and those living in poverty for years. This bipartisan legislation allows our nation to build on that work and continue to be a shining example to the world.” This legislation has already won the support of more than 20 non-governmental organizations (NGO) including RESULTS, World Vision, and Save the Children Action Network. “The Reach Act represents the kind of ambition we need to help countries reach the end of preventable maternal and child deaths,” said Dr. Joanne Carter, Executive Director of RESULTS and RESULTS Educational Fund. “Following the leadership of Reps. Reichert, McCollum, Lee, and Donovan, Congress has the chance to help make sure every mother and child is reached with quality services, regardless of who she is or where she lives.” “I am grateful to Rep. Reichert, Rep. McCollum, Rep. Lee and Rep. Donovan for their work across party lines to prioritize the health and survival of mothers and children around the world,” said Mark Shriver, president of Save the Children Action Network. “This is a bold initiative that will ensure our government is as effective as possible as we work toward ending preventable deaths around the world. As a result, we will help create a more stable world.” “The Reach Every Mother and Child Act provides a critical opportunity for the US Government to strengthen its commitment in serving the global poor,” added World Vision CEO Rich Stearns. “This legislation will ensure that proven cost-effective and life-saving health interventions will be scaled up in the developing world, in order to end preventable maternal and child deaths in our lifetime.” Background: According to experts, nearly 300,000 women die annually from pregnancy and childbirth complications. Malnutrition also contributes to approximately 45 percent of deaths among children under the age of five, totaling more than 3 million mostly preventable deaths each year. Furthermore, about one million newborns die on their very first day of life from causes that are almost entirely preventable. The Reach Act is the House companion bill to the Reach Every Mother and Child Act (S. 1730) introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Christopher Coons (D-DE) The legislation would: Coordinate U.S. government strategy to end preventable maternal, newborn, and childhood deaths globally within a generation; Require targets to be set, tracked, and reported; Focus on the poorest and most vulnerable populations while recognizing the unique needs within different countries and communities; Improve coordination amongst agencies and foreign governments, civil society, and international organizations; Encourage USAID to use pay-for-outcome financing arrangements; and Accelerate partner country progress toward self-sustainability.
10.12.2017	Washington, DC - After months of fundraising,the Wenatchee High School Mariachi Huenachi will perform tonight in Washington, DC in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month.They have been nationally recognized as being the fastest growing mariachi music program outside of Mexico. In June, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) sent a letter inviting Mariachi Director Ramon Rivera and his students to the nation's capital. With help from the community, the Country Music Association (CMA) and the National Association for Music Education (NAfME) the group raised enough money to fund a trip to Washington, DC for 31 students. It is all of the students' first trip to Washington, DC. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan recently sent the students a letter welcoming them to DC.Event Details:Where: 1100 Longworth - Ways and Means Committee RoomWhen: 5:30 - 7:30 PMWho: The event will open with brief remarks from Rep. Reichert, Sarah Trahern, CMA CEO and Michael J. Blakeslee, NAfME Executive Director and CEO. The students will begin their performance at 6:30 PM.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, chaired a Trade Subcommittee hearing on “Opportunities to Expand U.S. Trade Relationships in the Asia-Pacific Region.” Among other witnesses, the hearing included testimony from Stefanie Moreland representing Seattle-based Trident Seafoods Inc. Ms. Moreland as well as the other witnesses discussed both the current challenges and the great potential in the Asia-Pacific region for American workers, farmers, ranchers, and entrepreneurs. To watch the hearing and the Congressman’s opening remarks, click HERE. Below is a transcript of Chairman Reichert’s opening remarks: “Good afternoon. The Subcommittee will come to order. Welcome to the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on Opportunities to Expand U.S. Trade Relationships in the Asia-Pacific Region. Before hearing from our witnesses, I’d like to make a few points. “Many of the largest and the fastest-growing economies in the world are in the Asia-Pacific region. The 21 Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, members account for around 59 percent of global GDP and 49 percent of world trade. U.S. companies can sell only so much to the four percent of the world’s population that lives in the United States, so we must improve our access to global markets. f we want to remain competitive, then we must focus on doing so in the Asia-Pacific region. “Washington is one of the most trade-dependent states in the country, with 40 percent of all jobs tied to trade. Given our location on the West Coast, my constituents are very aware of the importance of export markets in the Asia-Pacific region. “Far too often, U.S. companies are held back in this region by high tariffs, non-tariff barriers, and discriminatory policies and regulations. All too often, it is much more difficult to do business in the region than it should be. Reducing these barriers would increase opportunities for U.S. companies to compete and win and would also increase prosperity throughout the Asia-Pacific, enhance security in the region, and set high standards for future agreements. “One important tool that the United States can use to address these issues is negotiating trade agreements. But we have trade agreements with only three countries in the Asia-Pacific: Korea, Australia, and Singapore. We must expand our presence. “I am convinced that KORUS, our trade agreement with Korea, has been a great success for both the United States and Korea. KORUS has been in place only five years, and some of the tariff reductions are still being phased in, especially for sensitive agricultural products, so we can expect even greater gains in the future. Even still, we have seen the benefits of KORUS throughout the United States, and particularly in my home state of Washington. Among other success stories, we have nearly doubled our cherry exports to Korea, making it our third largest market for cherries. “At the same time, Korea’s implementation of certain portions of the agreement has been very disappointing, and I know some tough conversations are ongoing to address those problems. The best way to resolve these issues and instill confidence in both countries about the future of the agreement is to use the committee structure set up under KORUS. That structure has helped us put an end to several disputes already, but Korea needs to do much more. “I am eager to hear from each of our witnesses today about your experiences in Korea and throughout this region – both where you’re having success and where you see continuing challenges. I hope that this hearing will help us as policymakers to more effectively push our trading partners to ensure a level playing field for U.S. companies and their employees. “When we have a trade agreement in place, we can work to enforce the agreement and push our trading partner to live up to its side of the bargain. But our limited number of trade agreements in the Asia-Pacific region greatly reduces our leverage relative to competitors in other countries that have been more aggressive in negotiating trade agreements. “Therefore, I firmly believe we need to pursue new bilateral agreements in the Asia-Pacific region. High-standard, ambitious, and enforceable agreements would benefit all Americans, including farmers, ranchers, workers, fishermen, manufacturers, and service providers. The longer we wait, the more we fall behind our competitors. We simply can’t afford to delay. I am eager to hear from our witnesses about how such new agreements can help us force markets open and make sure we are treated fairly. “I will now yield to Ranking Member Pascrell for the purpose of an opening statement.”
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) today delivered the following opening statement at a Subcommittee hearing entitled “Opportunities to Expand U.S. Trade Relationships in the Asia-Pacific Region.” CLICK HERE to watch the hearing. Remarks as delivered: “Good afternoon. The Subcommittee will come to order. Welcome to the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on Opportunities to Expand U.S. Trade Relationships in the Asia-Pacific Region. Before hearing from our witnesses, I’d like to make a few points. “Many of the largest and the fastest-growing economies in the world are in the Asia-Pacific region. The 21 Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, members account for around 59 percent of global GDP and 49 percent of world trade. U.S. companies can sell only so much to the four percent of the world’s population that lives in the United States, so we must improve our access to global markets. f we want to remain competitive, then we must focus on doing so in the Asia-Pacific region. “Washington is one of the most trade-dependent states in the country, with 40 percent of all jobs tied to trade. Given our location on the West Coast, my constituents are very aware of the importance of export markets in the Asia-Pacific region. “Far too often, U.S. companies are held back in this region by high tariffs, non-tariff barriers, and discriminatory policies and regulations. All too often, it is much more difficult to do business in the region than it should be. Reducing these barriers would increase opportunities for U.S. companies to compete and win and would also increase prosperity throughout the Asia-Pacific, enhance security in the region, and set high standards for future agreements. “One important tool that the United States can use to address these issues is negotiating trade agreements. But we have trade agreements with only three countries in the Asia-Pacific: Korea, Australia, and Singapore. We must expand our presence. “I am convinced that KORUS, our trade agreement with Korea, has been a great success for both the United States and Korea. KORUS has been in place only five years, and some of the tariff reductions are still being phased in, especially for sensitive agricultural products, so we can expect even greater gains in the future. Even still, we have seen the benefits of KORUS throughout the United States, and particularly in my home state of Washington. Among other success stories, we have nearly doubled our cherry exports to Korea, making it our third largest market for cherries. “At the same time, Korea’s implementation of certain portions of the agreement has been very disappointing, and I know some tough conversations are ongoing to address those problems. The best way to resolve these issues and instill confidence in both countries about the future of the agreement is to use the committee structure set up under KORUS. That structure has helped us put an end to several disputes already, but Korea needs to do much more. “I am eager to hear from each of our witnesses today about your experiences in Korea and throughout this region – both where you’re having success and where you see continuing challenges. I hope that this hearing will help us as policymakers to more effectively push our trading partners to ensure a level playing field for U.S. companies and their employees. “When we have a trade agreement in place, we can work to enforce the agreement and push our trading partner to live up to its side of the bargain. But our limited number of trade agreements in the Asia-Pacific region greatly reduces our leverage relative to competitors in other countries that have been more aggressive in negotiating trade agreements. “Therefore, I firmly believe we need to pursue new bilateral agreements in the Asia-Pacific region. High-standard, ambitious, and enforceable agreements would benefit all Americans, including farmers, ranchers, workers, fishermen, manufacturers, and service providers. The longer we wait, the more we fall behind our competitors. We simply can’t afford to delay. I am eager to hear from our witnesses about how such new agreements can help us force markets open and make sure we are treated fairly. “I will now yield to Ranking Member Pascrell for the purpose of an opening statement.”
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2018 House Budget Resolution (H.Con.Res. 71) with his support. “Today’s budget is not perfect, and, as we work through this process, I will continue to advocate for protecting the most vulnerable in our communities and conserving our environment,” said Rep. Reichert. “But we cannot sit on the sidelines and watch America’s budget problems grow, leaving our children and grandchildren to shoulder the debt. That is why I voted today to get our fiscal house in order and put America back on a pro-growth path. Passage of the budget resolution also puts us one step closer to implementing a fairer, flatter tax code that will result in bigger paychecks and more jobs for hard-working Americans.”
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, released the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced their initiative for combatting violent crime using Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN), a program Rep. Reichert has long championed, as its centerpiece. PSN is an evidence-driven grant program designed to create safer neighborhoods through a sustained reduction in crime associated with gang and gun violence. During his time serving as Sheriff, Rep. Reichert oversaw the program in King County, Washington. As part of the DOJ’s actions to combat violent crime and get more cops on the street, the department also announced plans to strengthen funding for the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program, a program Rep. Reichert has advocated for during his time in law enforcement and his thirteen years in Congress. “Today we moved one step closer to reducing violent crime and making our communities safer for all Americans,” said Rep. Reichert. “After years of calling for increased support for PSN under the previous Administration, the DOJ has taken the right step to better protect the American people. From my time in law enforcement, I have seen PSN deliver on reducing violent crime, including gun crime and gang-related activity. It is a results-driven and community outreach-focused program that sends a clear message to potential criminals that if they do the crime, they will do the time.” Reichert continued, “I am also pleased to see the DOJ has taken hiring shortages seriously and strengthened support for the COPS Hiring Program. Over the years, our law enforcement officers have taken on more responsibilities, suffered increased public scrutiny, and have been forced to work with fewer resources, making fulfilling their mission of keeping our families safe increasingly difficult. Putting more highly-trained, compassionate, and community-sensitive cops on the street will free up resources for law enforcement departments to tackle violent crime in our communities through community policing and intervention efforts.” To learn more about PSN, see the Attorney General’s memo HERE. Rep. Reichert’s Efforts on PSN and COPS Hiring: Last month, Rep. Reichert’s amendment to increase funding for Project Safe Neighborhoods passed the House. Prior to the passage of the amendment, he spoke on the House floor. Additionally, last month, Rep. Reichert secured funding for the COPS Hiring Program on the House floor from Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) for Fiscal Year 2018. Prior to the Congressman’s efforts, funding for the program had been completely eliminated. Chairman Culberson committed to funding the program during a colloquy with Rep. Reichert on the House floor. To read Rep. Reichert’s OpEd in The Hill about his experience with Project Safe Neighborhoods while he was Sheriff of King County, click HERE.
10.02.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) sent out the following statement in the wake of the tragic shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada. "My heart breaks for the families of the victims, the wounded, and all those impacted by last night’s tragic, senseless, and evil event and I continue to pray for those being treated in the hospital," said Rep. Reichert. "Targeting innocent individuals enjoying time with family and friends is beyond evil and cowardly. As this tragedy continues to be investigated, we must all be thankful for the incredible bravery and swift action of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police, Clark County Sheriff’s Office, all first responders, as well as local trauma center personnel. We must remain resilient as one nation."
09.30.2017	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Peter King (R-NY), and Steny Hoyer (D-MD) co-chairs of the Congressional Fire Service Caucus, and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, announced the AFG and SAFER Program Reauthorization Act of 2017. Each year more than one million fire and emergency services personnel respond to over 30 million emergency calls across the country. This bipartisan legislation would ensure that our over 30,000 fire departments continue to have access to the necessary training, equipment, and staffing to conduct emergency response missions and to continue to reduce community risk. Specifically, this legislation would reauthorize the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, the Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grant program, the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants. Congressional authorization for these grants expire tomorrow and sunset in January 2, 2018. The bill is a companion to S.829, sponsored by Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Jon Tester (D-MT), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Tom Carper (D-DE). “Our firefighters and first responders are the first line of defense in our communities,” said Rep. Reichert. “But they are continually asked to do more with fewer resources and safety equipment. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes vital programs which help address the funding shortages for fire departments and first responders across our country. This support is necessary for our firefighters and first responders to perform their critical mission of protecting our families, while also having the resources to protect their own safety." "Firefighters and first responders across our nation need all the support they can receive to keep our communities safe," said Rep. Pascrell, an original author of these grant programs. "When I crafted the initial legislation authorizing these grant programs I knew towns and cities across our nation needed assistance to offset the costs associated with hiring new staff, replace deteriorating equipment, and meet training requirements. These federal grants ensure the brave men and women on the front lines are provided critical resources to support and protect communities across our nation." "It is essential that our first responders have the tools they need to protect the lives and well-being of the public and themselves," said Rep. King. "This legislation will go a long way to providing the resources, equipment and training for our nation's first responders." "Our firefighters put their lives on the line for their communities each day," said Rep. Hoyer. "We must ensure that they have the resources they need to do their job safely and effectively. I’m proud to join in cosponsoring the bipartisan AFG and SAFER Program Reauthorization Act, so that the hardworking men and women who make up fire departments across the nation have access to the proper equipment and training programs to support the critically important work that they do." "Every day our firefighters risk their lives to keep us safe, so it is important that we make every effort to support the important work and service they provide to our communities," Rep. Bernice Johnson said. "This legislation will allow our first responders to enhance their fire prevention program and reduce the incidences of injury or death, helping them to continue the vital services they provide to our community." This legislation has been endorsed by the Congressional Fire Services Institute, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, and the National Volunteer Fire Council. Background on AFG, FP&S, and SAFER Grant program Congress created these grant programs to help address the significant staffing, equipment, training, and health and safety needs of fire departments. The SAFER Grant program provides funding to cover the costs associated with hiring personnel to maintain safe staffing levels. The AFG program makes funds available for fire departments to purchase equipment, provide training, and meet other fire department needs. The FP&S Grant program provides assistance to fire departments to support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards in order to reduce injury and prevent death among high-risk populations. Details of the AFG and SAFER Program Reauthorization Act of 2017 In order to improve upon the success of these grant programs, this legislation makes the following minor changes as part of the reauthorization: Eliminates the sunset provision: This legislation removes the sunset provision in current authorization for these grant programs in order to keep the programs from expiring. Extends the authorization date: This legislation extends the current AFG and SAFER Grant programs’ authorization levels of $750 million through FY 2023. Individual waiver authority: The last authorization for the SAFER grant program allowed the FEMA Administrator the discretion to waive the local match requirement. Erroneously, the bill only waived the reference to the local match requirement in one part of the statute and not the other, creating a situation where FEMA is unable to exercise the waiver authority as Congress intended. This legislation makes the technical correction to ensure the waiver authority operates as Congress intended for jurisdictions with demonstrated local hardship. Improved oversight: This legislation requires the FEMA Administrator and Assistant Administrator for the Grant Program Directorate to make grants administration training available online so potential grant recipients are better able to access and manage grants. Additionally, the legislation requires the development and implementation of an oversight framework to reduce potential waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement. Expanded use of SAFER funds: This bill expands the use for SAFER grants so that fire departments may change part-time or paid-on-call firefighters to full-time firefighters.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after House Republican's released their framework for tax reform: "Over the years as I have traveled to all corners of Washington’s Eighth District and met with individuals and families from all walks of life, I have heard the same message over and over again: Americans want a simpler, fairer tax code that leads to more jobs and bigger paychecks. Today, the House released a framework for a tax reform plan to put us on that path. The framework outlines a plan that provides tax relief and a simplified code to middle-class families, making Americans’ day to day life more affordable so individuals and families can focus on the things that matter. And it sets out a path for significant economic growth, by lowering tax rates for American businesses and encouraging investment here at home. America’s outdated tax code has weighed down American workers and businesses as our foreign competitors move forward. We simply must have a tax code that supports the creation of good-paying jobs in America. This is a once in a generation opportunity that will improve the lives of American families for generations to come. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle over the coming months on a tax plan that will give Americans a raise, help our businesses compete, and simplify the tax code." To read more about the framework, click HERE.
09.20.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01), and U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) led a bipartisan group of members of Congress urging the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to abandon a proposal to establish a trade remedy provision for perishable and seasonal products that would harm the competiveness of fruit and vegetable growers in Washington state and Oregon. The provision is being considered as a part of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiation process. Members of Congress also signing the letter include Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-WA), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), Rep. Greg Walden (OR-02), and Rep. Kurt Schrader (OR-05). Agricultural production and trade are crucial to the economic health of the Pacific Northwest and Canada and Mexico are vital trading partners. The provision under consideration may spell the end of duty-free access to these important markets for growers and exporters in the region. “We expect that Canadian and Mexican industries, including the tree fruit industry, may take advantage of such a provision to restrict exports of U.S. products,” the members wrote. “Failure to consider these concerns will leave our tree fruit growers and other producers, who have proven highly successful in competing in the Mexican and Canadian marketplaces, vulnerable to tariffs that would have a negative impact on rural communities throughout our states.” Crops such as tree fruit, wheat, potatoes, and hops would all be affected. Mexico and Canada are the top two export markets for apples and pears, and Canada has historically been the top export market for cherries. Washington state and Oregon grow more than three quarters of all the pears, apples, and cherries grown in the U.S. In Washington state, agriculture and food production employs 140,000 people and comprises 13 percent of the state’s economy. In Oregon, the industry supports almost 160,000 jobs and agriculture and food exports make up 6 percent of the state’s economy. The text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th St, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: As members of the Washington and Oregon delegations, we write to convey concerns regarding a possible trade remedy provision for perishable and seasonal products as a part of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiation process. Given that there are serious, unresolved stakeholder concerns about the negative impact of such a provision on U.S. exports and jobs, we ask that you not move forward with this proposal. We urge you to consult closely with stakeholders and Congress on these matters. Fruits and vegetables are an important part of Pacific Northwest agricultural production and exports, and Canada and Mexico are key markets supporting exports from the region. For example, growers, packers, and shippers in the Pacific Northwest produce more than three quarters of the fresh apples and cherries, and approximately 84 percent of the fresh pears, grown in the United States. Mexico and Canada are the top two export markets for apples and pears, with about 15 percent of the apple crop and 20 percent of the pear crop, worth approximately $442 million, shipped to our southern and northern neighbors each year. Canada has historically been the top market for cherries, with sales approaching $100 million; an additional $5 million to $10 million worth of cherries are exported to Mexico annually. It is estimated that these tree-fruit sales alone to consumers residing within the borders of our NAFTA trading partners support 4,100 jobs in the Pacific Northwest. Because these jobs are dependent on exports to our NAFTA partners, we have a significant interest in how this negotiation affects the ability of Pacific Northwest growers to maintain their duty-free access to these vital commercial markets. We appreciate that USTR’s “Summary of Objectives for the NAFTA Renegotiation” included maintaining reciprocal duty-free market access for agricultural goods as a negotiating objective. However, we are concerned that the proposed provision for perishable and seasonal products, if adopted, would run counter to this goal and leave our growers vulnerable to new duties from these two critically important trading partners. We expect that Canadian and Mexican industries, including the tree fruit industry, may take advantage of such a provision to restrict exports of U.S. products. The U.S. apple industry has been the subject of trade remedy investigations in Canada and Mexico, and therefore any new rule may be applied by these countries in a future proceeding against U.S. producers. Failure to consider these concerns will leave our tree-fruit growers and other producers, who have proven highly successful in competing in the Mexican and Canadian marketplaces, vulnerable to tariffs that would have a negative impact on rural communities throughout our states. Again, given the concerns of Pacific Northwest fruit and vegetable producers, we ask that you not move forward with this proposal. We appreciate your continued commitment to this matter as negotiations with Mexico and Canada to reform NAFTA progress. Sincerely,
09.14.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported and the House passed H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, which provides funding for federal programs in the areas of the environment, agriculture, rural development, community safety and homeland security, labor, health care, education, foreign aid, transportation, housing, and urban development for Fiscal Year 2018. “While I believe there are areas of this bill where funding must be strengthened, some of the priorities I have fought for throughout my time in Congress received increased resources,” said Rep. Reichert. “This bill makes our communities safer by providing law enforcement agencies with the tools to hire more officers, fight gun crime, battle the opioid epidemic, and increase their training programs. It also includes resources to preserve our national parks and help combat and fight wildfires like the ones sweeping through our region. I am pleased the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act also increases aid to individuals with special needs and for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, and it continues the federal government’s investment in life-saving medical research. As this bill moves through the legislative process, I will continue to advocate for programs deserving of greater resources than the bill today provides, including programs that support community development, workforce training, and land conservation. It is my hope we can ultimately make improvements where the current bill falls short.”
09.13.2017	Washington, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, secured funding for the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program on the House floor from Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) for Fiscal Year 2018. Prior to the Congressman’s efforts, funding for the program had been completely eliminated. Since first coming to Congress, Rep. Reichert has fought relentlessly to protect and strengthen funding for COPS Office programs, especially the COPS Hiring Program, which is consistently targeted for elimination or underfunded in appropriations bills. Earlier this year, he sent a bipartisan letter with Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) to President Trump outlining the importance of the COPS Office and particularly the Hiring Program. This competitive grant program provides struggling communities with necessary funding to address their personnel needs. With staffing shortages in law enforcement agencies across the country, the approximately 129,000 officers placed in communities by the COPS Hiring Program have been critical to protecting the safety of our neighborhoods and cities. Below is the full transcript of the exchange, which took place on the House Floor, where Rep. Reichert described the vital importance of the program and Chairman Culberson committed to funding it. To watch a video of the colloquy on the House floor, click HERE. Mr. Reichert: I rise for the purpose of engaging in a colloquy with the Chairman about the COPS Hiring Program. Managed by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, or COPS, the COPS Hiring program is vital to state and local law enforcement agencies. The program provides our communities with the much needed funding to hire law enforcement officers and meet public safety needs. Since its beginning, the COPS Hiring program has placed more than 129,000 officers in communities across the U.S. to advance policing and crime prevention efforts. Make no mistake; these officers are necessary for the safety of our neighborhoods, constituents, and loved ones. Staffing challenges not only jeopardize the safety of our men and women in uniform, but also directly lead to the breakdown in trust between law enforcement and community. From my over 33 years of experience in law enforcement, I know that police departments must have the staff necessary to effectively engage with their communities and proactively respond to their needs, instead of running from one crime to the next. COPS Hiring is a proven program that studies have shown reduces crime without a corresponding increase in arrests. Effective policing lowers crime rates and builds strong community relationships at the same time. Throughout my time in Congress, I have been fighting to keep this program funded. And this year is the same. While I appreciate that the bill before us includes a $100 million increase for the Byrne-JAG law enforcement grant program, I am disappointed that it does not provide funding for the COPS Hiring program. As this process moves forward, I urge you to include funding for the COPS Hiring program. We must continue this program that has been so important to state and local law enforcement. This program is not just good for those who put their lives on the line every day, but it benefits all citizens as our country works to bridge the gap between law enforcement and the communities they serve and protect. Chairman Culberson: I thank my colleague from Washington. I recognize the significant positive impact the COPS Hiring program has had and continues to have on communities across the United States, especially given the staffing shortages and current issues facing our nation’s law enforcement. As you know, the Senate has funded the COPS Hiring program in its bill, and I will work with the gentleman to fund COPS in conference. Mr. Reichert: Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate all of your hard work on this bill. I yield back.
09.12.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), along with Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL), authors of companion legislation in the Senate, applauded enactment of the Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act, H.R. 601, bipartisan legislation they introduced to enhance transparency and accelerate the impact of U.S. basic education programs around the world in order to help countries address the more than 263 million children and youth that are out of school. “The expression ‘knowledge is power’ knows no borders or backgrounds,” said Rep. Reichert. “By giving young people in impoverished regions the tools to read and write, we will put them down a positive path where they are better able to care for themselves, the needs of their families, and their communities. The opportunity for a basic education will also help these children live longer, healthier lives and will promote stability in areas of the world suffering from conflict. I have been a longtime champion of the READ Act and could not be more pleased to see this bill get across the finish line.” “Without a doubt, education is the greatest force multiplier in foreign aid. The READ Act will enhance our global education efforts, removing barriers to education for those out of school and improving the quality of education for those already enrolled,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Prioritizing education around the world will not only help students learn to read and write—it will ultimately help protect vulnerable communities from hunger and disease and increase economic advancement, particularly for girls and women. Simply put, by putting education at the center of our efforts, this bill moves us further down the path to building the world we want for ourselves and for future generations. This is a tremendous bipartisan achievement, and I thank my colleagues for their hard work to send this critical legislation to the president’s desk.” “The READ Act will empower millions of children around the world, particularly girls, by increasing their access to basic education and reducing their vulnerability to poverty, abuse, and extremism,” said Senator Rubio. “I commend President Trump for signing into law this important bill that will advance American interests and values by helping children around the world reach their full potential.” “Passage of the READ Act will help provide children, particularly girls, with a quality education and empower them to improve the lives of their families and change the course of nations,” said Senator Durbin. “This bipartisan achievement will help unleash the potential of children across the globe and arm them with the necessary tools to break the cycles of poverty, violence, and extremism.” The READ Act previously passed the House in January 2017 by voice vote and passed the Senate, with amendments, in August 2017 by voice vote. Worldwide, 250 million primary schoolchildren are failing to learn basic literacy and numeracy skills. 130 million of these students have attended at least four years of school. Studies have shown that for every year a girl stays in school, her future income increases between 15 to 25 percent. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, and the empowerment of women and girls. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the READ Act calls for: U.S. engagement with key partner countries, other donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to promote sustainable, quality basic education. A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; An annual report to Congress on implementation of the basic education strategy and progress achieved by USAID programs. The READ Act was the legislative vehicle for passage of critical disaster assistance and short-term extensions of federal funding and the federal debt limit last week. Because a version of the READ Act had already passed both bodies, it could bypass Senate procedural steps, thereby expediting enactment of disaster assistance in the wake of Hurricane Harvey and during Hurricane Irma.
09.12.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after a bill he sponsored, the Emergency Aid to American Survivors of Hurricanes Irma and Jose Overseas Act, passed the House and Senate and was signed into law by President Donald Trump. The legislation allows for increased levels of emergency assistance to be used to aid the recovery of Americans living abroad who have or will be impacted by the hurricanes affecting the southeast region of the country. “Hurricane season has left countless Americans stranded and in need of medical care or other assistance,” said Rep. Reichert. “This includes American individuals and families living outside our borders who are struggling to rebuild after the destruction of Hurricane Irma and are preparing for the potential impact of Hurricane Jose. I am proud my colleagues joined me in supporting these American survivors and giving them the care they deserve as they work to recover what has been lost.” Background: The U.S. Repatriation Program (Program) was established in 1935 under Section 1113 of the Social Security Act (Assistance for U.S. Citizens Returned from Foreign Countries), to provide temporary assistance to U.S. citizens and their dependents who have been identified by the Department of State (DOS) as having returned, or been brought from a foreign country, to the U.S. because of destitution, illness, war, threat of war, or similar crisis, and without available resources.
09.12.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, made the following statement after his amendment to increase funding for Project Safe Neighborhoods, a federal grant program to combat gang violence and gun-related crimes, passed the House. “Project Safe Neighborhoods is the proven answer to the violent gun-related crimes that have plagued our cities,” said Rep. Reichert. “This data-driven program has proven to be effective by sending potential criminals a clear message that there will be consequences if they use guns unlawfully. I saw this for myself when I oversaw the program as Sheriff of King County. I am pleased that my colleagues came together to support this commonsense approach to making our cities safer for all individuals.” To watch Rep. Reichert’s speech given on the House floor prior to the Amendment’s passage, click HERE. Additional Background: Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) is a grant program administered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) and is designed to create safer neighborhoods through a sustained reduction in crime associated with gang and gun violence. The program's effectiveness is based on the cooperation of local, state, and federal agencies engaged in a unified approach led by the U.S. Attorney in each district. The U.S. Attorney is responsible for establishing a collaborative PSN task force of federal, state, and local law enforcement and other community members to implement gang and gun crime enforcement, intervention, and prevention initiatives within the district. The purpose of PSN is to reduce gun crime and gang violence by the most violent offenders in the most violent neighborhoods by employing a research-driven, intelligence-led, and problem-solving approach to reduce firearms and gang violence through enforcement, deterrence, and prevention. To read Rep. Reichert’s OpEd in The Hill about his experience with Project Safe Neighborhoods while he was Sheriff of King County, click HERE.
09.08.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after he supported legislation to provide much needed relief to the communities who have or will be impacted by devastating hurricanes as well as funding to keep our government running. The bill also temporarily protects the country from defaulting on its debt. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 316 to 90. “Since Hurricane Harvey swept through Texas, the world has watched as complete strangers put their safety on the line to help one another when they too are victims of the storm,” said Rep. Reichert. “Their heroism has served as a reminder that in the end it is not parties or politics that matter – people matter. I am pleased my colleagues in Congress came together today to make the right decision to help the countless people who have lost friends or family members, or their homes and belongings to the storm. I continue to pray for all those impacted by Hurricane Harvey and my prayers are with the individuals who are preparing for the arrival of Hurricane Irma.”
09.06.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) today made the following statement announcing his plans to pursue new opportunities to serve the country and the American people. "It has been an honor and a privilege to serve the people of the greatest state in the world’s greatest nation for nearly five decades. First as a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserves for six years, then in the King County Sheriff’s Office for 33 years, and most recently as a seven term Member of Congress. I am humbled to have been trusted by the people of Washington’s 8th District to be their voice in Congress; it is an honor I have not taken lightly. Each and every day, I have committed to serving the 8th District and our nation with the heart of a servant. After spending time during the August work period with family and friends, reflecting on the past, discussing the future, and celebrating another birthday, I have decided this will be my last term and I will not run for reelection in November, 2018. It was not an easy decision but I believe it was the right one for my family and me. I have spent my entire career and devoted my life to service. I see this not just as a job, but as a calling - a calling I will not walk away from. Washington’s 8th Congressional District is home to the most talented people, a first-class business community, and a breathtaking natural landscape that is second to none. In my congressional career, I have always strived to improve the daily lives of my constituents and preserve the majestic beauty of our region. Whether it was through my work to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area, improve our foster care system and combat sex trafficking, or secure equipment and resources for our first responders, I have taken this honor and responsibility seriously. Early on, the importance of trade to the region was clear. From serving on President Obama’s Export Council to battling to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank to leading the fight to pass the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement, I have always fought to give our exporters the chance to sell their goods and services around the world. Now, at this critical time, serving as the first Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade from Washington State, I remain steadfast in my commitment to Washington’s workers, manufacturers and growers – the best in the world. Representing over 700,000 constituents takes a team. My team, many of which have been with me since the beginning, have served our community with the heart of a servant, putting constituents before themselves. Day in and out they have helped constituents receive government funds owed to them, get answers when their questions were bogged down in government bureaucracy, and acquire necessary equipment and services for our veterans. I am immensely proud of the work my staff has done. This decision has been difficult to say the least but the love for my family ultimately guided me. I look forward to spending time with my wife, Julie, our three grown children and six grandchildren. They have made great sacrifices and I owe them not only my gratitude but more time together. As I finish my last term in the U.S. House of Representatives, I will continue to fight for hard working families, small business and all that makes our community great. I am deeply humbled by the support the people have shown since being elected in 1996 to Sheriff. Every election has been an amazing honor. From the bottom of my heart, thank you for this opportunity. God has blessed my family, my team and me as we have served. Thank you and God Bless America."
09.05.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement regarding his support for protecting the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. This statement follows a letter he sent on Friday to Speaker Paul Ryan, urging the House take up legislation to address the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “Children who were brought here by no fault of their own see America as their country and their home,” said Rep. Reichert. “They are our friends, neighbors, colleagues, spouses, and honored members of the military willing to sacrifice their life for our freedom. Punishing these individuals who have contributed so much to our communities and for a crime they did not commit is not in the American DNA. We are a caring, compassionate people and we in Congress must work toward a long-term immigration solution that is fair, respects the dignity of families, and allows all individuals to pursue the American dream.” Rep. Reichert has supported initiatives to protect the children who came to the United States by no fault of their own and know America as their home. Earlier this year, he cosponsored the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, a bipartisan bill which allows individuals who meet the standards of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program to remain in the United States without fear of deportation for a period of three years while Congress works toward a more permanent solution. In March, Rep. Reichert cosponsored a bill to provide that solution for these individuals - the Recognizing America’s Children (RAC) Act, which gives DACA participants a chance to earn a legal status. Additionally, he cosponsored the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training (ENLIST) Act, which allows undocumented immigrants who served in the Armed Forces to become lawful permanent residents and apply for citizenship.
09.02.2017	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert, Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, led a bipartisan coalition in calling on President Trump to continue honoring the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). In recent weeks it has been reported that the Trump Administration is considering withdrawing from the agreement. A withdrawal from the agreement would cause American businesses, farmers and workers to face high barriers to selling their products while benefiting competitors in Asia and Europe. “The U.S. relationship with Korea could not be more important than it is today. Growing and maintaining robust trading relationships in East Asia is our best tool to ensure peace and prosperity not only on the Korean peninsula but here at home as well. It would be a grave error to withdraw from the agreement,” said Reps. Reichert, Kind, Dent, and Larsen. Find a copy of the letter HERE. The following members signed on to the letter: Rep. Kind (D-WI), Rep. Dent (R-PA), Rep. Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Royce (R-CA), Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Smith (R-NE), Rep. DelBene (D-WA), Rep. Tiberi (R-OH), Rep. Sewell (D-AL), Rep. Roskam (R-IL), Rep. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Noem (R-SD), Rep. Himes (D-CT), Rep. Meehan (R-PA), Rep. Bera (D-CA), Rep. Walters (R-CA), Rep. Kelly (R-PA) and Rep. Murphy (D-FL). Since the agreement was signed total exports of goods and services from the United States to Korea have increased by $2.1 billion, over 3 percent, since 2011. The annual merchandise trade deficit with Korea declined in 2016. Prior to the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), U.S. cherry growers faced a 24 percent tariff, including on Dale’s cherries. KORUS eliminated this tariff. And in the year after the agreement entered into force, cherry exports to Korea nearly doubled and have continued to grow, making Korea our third largest market for cherries.
08.31.2017	Issaquah, Washington - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) recently welcomed 12 high school students to his 2017-2018 Youth Advisory Board (YAB). Rep. Reichert formed YAB in 2011 to give young constituents an opportunity to discuss and provide their feedback on the Congressman’s legislative priorities and federal policies being considered in Congress. Over the next year, YAB members will have the opportunity to drive their own agenda depending on their interests. In previous years, students have discussed congressional bills with the Congressman, met with business and community leaders from around the district, toured businesses and non-profits, heard from guest speakers, and learned professional development skills. This year’s YAB new members are listed below: Alexander Barran, Issaquah High School Owen Bernstein, Eastside Catholic High School Logan Breidenbach, Enumclaw High School Cullen Geahigan, Mt. Si High School Adam Gregg, Eastside Catholic High School Conrad Gregg, Eastside Catholic High School William Morgan Jensen, The Bear Creek School Brigham Johnston, Skyline High School Andrea Litzenberger, Eatonville High School Divya Parimi, Eastlake High School Colton Powell, Eatonville High School Anneleis Van Brero, Liberty Senior High School
08.29.2017	Issaquah, Washington - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the passing of Retired Maj. Gen. Tim Lowenberg, who served in the U.S. Air Force and led the Washington National Guard. "It is with a heavy heart that I send my condolences to Retired Maj. Gen. Tim Lowenberg’s wife Mary and his family," said Rep. Reichert. "I had the privilege of working with Tim for many years beginning when I served as King County Sheriff to more recently as a Member of Congress. Through Tim’s work as a Mission Readiness member, we partnered on initiatives to strengthen families and invest in kids so they would be better prepared for a successful future. He was a cherished friend and someone I could always count on to respond to a call for help." "Tim will be remembered for his heart, service to our country, and commitment to protecting those who sacrifice so much on behalf of our safety."
08.16.2017	As I’ve said previously, the organizer’s behind Saturday’s protest in Charlottesville, VA are committed to causes inspired by hate, bigotry, and selfishness. Let me be clear, there is no defense for the KKK or white supremacists and the racist views they stand for and they must be condemned universally and decisively. The greatest weapon to organizations founded in hate and the desire to divide, is Americans’ pursuit of unity, acceptance, and love for one another. From our earliest days to this past weekend, these values have been challenged and tested, but they have remained constant as an American ideal. As we mourn the senseless loss of life in Charlottesville and consider how to move forward as a nation, we must confront racists with what they fear most by continuing to work toward this ideal. With tensions high in communities across the country, progress can only come with the recognition we are all on the same team, a willingness to walk in each other’s shoes, and a common goal of regaining trust and civility within our neighborhoods and throughout the country. We must all learn to live together as brothers and sisters, as Dr. Martin Luther King said, or we will all perish together as fools.
08.16.2017	Washington, D.C. - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statements as the United States, Canada, and Mexico today begin the first round of negotiations to modernize and update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in Washington, D.C. Chairman Reichert said: “Over the past several decades, NAFTA has positively transformed the U.S. and North American economy. It has reduced barriers to our exports, allowing American businesses to sell their goods and services more freely and competitively to markets around the world, creating countless U.S. jobs and lowering prices for consumers in the process. While NAFTA has benefited nearly every sector of our economy, the world has evolved tremendously since the agreement was signed in 1994. This week’s negotiating round provides an opportunity for the Administration to begin the process of bringing NAFTA into the 21st century and updating the deal to better serve American farmers, workers, exporters, and consumers. I look forward to continuing to work closely with the Administration to ensure a modernized NAFTA strengthens America’s economic competitiveness while maintaining the benefits that we enjoy today.” Chairman Brady said: “This week, the United States takes its first critical steps toward modernizing and upgrading NAFTA to ensure that it continues to benefit America’s workers and job creators for years to come. This first round of negotiations marks a pivotal opportunity to bring this important trade agreement into the 21st century – to break down outdated customs barriers, modernize digital commerce practices, and establish the strongest enforcement standards and dispute settlement procedures to hold our trading partners accountable. “By seamlessly building off of NAFTA’s existing benefits and further expanding trade throughout North America, we will continue to create American jobs, spur economic growth, and open up new opportunities for Americans of all walks of life. I’m confident in Ambassador Lighthizer’s ability to achieve the U.S. negotiating objectives as set forth by Congress for NAFTA and set a standard of excellence for future trade agreements. I look forward to working with him and his team as these important negotiations unfold.”
08.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Committee Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statements after President Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum calling for United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer to use the agency’s Section 301 authority to determine whether to investigate Chinese policies that encourage or require the transfer of American technology to Chinese enterprise as the cost of doing business in the country. Chairman Reichert said: “I welcome the Administration’s leadership in addressing China’s forced technology transfer requirements. The U.S. economy and so many jobs depend on the strength of our technology companies, including some of our nation’s leading tech companies headquartered in my home state of Washington. But the ability of our businesses to compete is severely undermined when China robs them of their most valuable assets to benefit its own technology sector. I am committed to working closely with the Administration as it undertakes its review and decides on appropriate action to end these practices once and for all.�? Chairman Brady said: “I am pleased that President Trump has targeted China’s forced technology policies. These practices have unfairly forced American companies to surrender vital intellectual property to their Chinese competitors as the price for doing business. I look forward to working closely with the Administration to determine the appropriate steps for the United States to take so we can end a practice that has caused so much harm to our innovators.�?
08.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Recently, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Sens. Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced the U.S. Optimal Use of Trade to Develop Outerwear and Outdoor Recreation (OUTDOOR) Act to reduce tariffs on recreational performance apparel and strengthen America’s recreational economy. Specifically, the legislation would make products like jackets and pants more affordable for American consumers, encourage participation in outdoor activities, create jobs, and help designers and retailers of performance apparel better compete in the global economy. “When people think of Washington State, they immediately think of the outdoors,” said Rep. Reichert. “Residents in my home state are blessed to have natural treasures such as Mt. Rainier and countless miles of trails in their backyards. I am proud to work on this bipartisan bill to make outdoor recreation apparel more affordable; supporting both outdoor enthusiasts and the growth of Washington's innovative apparel companies." “From hiking and nature-watching in the Columbia River Gorge to biking on trails throughout our forests, Oregonians enjoy being active outside. Not only is outdoor recreation good for our souls and health, but it’s good for our economy,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “By making gear more affordable, the OUTDOOR Act will allow for more families across Oregon and the country to enjoy the great outdoors.” “Outdoor recreation is a critical part of Missouri’s economy, generating billions in consumer spending and supporting more than 130,000 jobs,” said Sen. Blunt. “Unfortunately, many of the outdoor products consumers rely on face import tariffs as high as 40 percent. These taxes mean higher costs for businesses and consumers, less innovation, and fewer U.S. jobs. By eliminating import tariffs on outdoor apparel, the OUTDOOR Act will help grow the $887 billion outdoor recreation economy and encourage more Americans to enjoy the great outdoors. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bipartisan and bicameral bill.” “In Washington state we are hikers, bikers, anglers, climbers, and skiers. I am proud to put forward a common-sense bill that will help Washington state’s $26 billion outdoor economy grow, hire workers, and continue to offer high-performance products to our outdoor enthusiasts,” said Sen. Cantwell, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee. Background: According to the Outdoor Industry Association’s 2017 report, the outdoor recreation economy directly supports 7.6 million American jobs and generates $887 billion in consumer spending annually. But burdensomely high import tariffs on outdoor recreation apparel limit opportunities for outdoor retailers to expand and contribute to higher consumer prices. The OUTDOOR Act would work to address these issues by making outdoor recreation apparel items duty-free, thereby eliminating the “hidden tax” on these goods.
08.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statements as the United States and Togo co-host the 2017 African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum this week to further strengthen important economic ties between the United States and Africa. Chairman Reichert added: “I have long been a vocal supporter of AGOA and was happy that so many of my colleagues in the U.S. Congress joined me in a strong bipartisan vote for its renewal two years ago. “I am pleased that the location of this year’s Forum in Togo provides an opportunity to highlight the success of companies like Alaffia, which was founded by entrepreneurs from both Togo and my home state of Washington and continues to operate in both locations. Alaffia is making the most of the opportunities created by AGOA to build its lines of beauty and health products, creating good jobs and opportunities in both Togo and the United States. “Alaffia is just one of many AGOA success stories. “As we strengthen our relationship with the nations of sub-Saharan Africa, I see the AGOA eligibility criteria as an important catalyst, providing Africa with the tools to leap forward in building its economies, raising standards, and developing strong democracies. I look forward to working together to make the most of the remaining eight years of the AGOA authorization.” Chairman Brady said: “The bipartisan 10-year renewal and enhancement of AGOA was the longest extension, ever, of the program. The strong bipartisan commitment to Africa has been clear every time the Congress has legislated on AGOA since 2000. I am very proud to have been part of this effort going back to my time as Ranking Member and then Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee. “I know that government officials, the private sector, and civil society in our AGOA partners have been working hard to make the most of the stability that this renewal provides. I urge everyone involved to enhance those efforts to make the most of the next eight years, and I pledge to continue to partner with you. I will work with the Administration to continue to apply the eligibility criteria and procedures established by Congress in AGOA because they make Africa a more attractive place to do business. “I believe that our partnership through AGOA has done much to deepen our relationship and increase economic opportunity in Africa, and I know that with strong partnership, we can build on this success and accomplish much more.”
08.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) announced a three-year extension to their current contract, which was originally set to expire in 2019. Congressman Reichert led a bipartisan group of his colleagues calling for an early extension of the contract. The ILWU and PMA began these discussions early because of prolonged contract negotiations in 2014-2015 that led to a months-long slowdown at ports in Washington State and across the West Coast. The slowdown cost farmers, manufacturers, and retailers across the western U.S. hundreds of millions of dollars in damages and decreased the region’s foreign market share. “This news will bring greater confidence to the countless farmers, workers, and businesses across our region who rely on our strong ports and who suffered millions in losses during the 2014-2015 disruption,” said Rep. Reichert. “I commend the ILWU and PMA for taking action to prevent the situation from repeating itself. Washington State is home to many of the world’s highest quality agricultural products and goods that consumers around the world demand. With this agreement comes certainty for our exporters and their customers.” Additional Information: In October 2016, Washington Rep. Reichert, joined by Rep. Dan Newhouse and Oregon Rep. Kurt Schrader led a letter urging both the ILWU and PMA to continue discussing an extension of their current contract covering operations at the 29 West Coast container ports. In April 2016, Washington Reps. Reichert and Dan Newhouse led a letter to both parties encouraging the organizations to discuss options in order to prevent future port disruptions similar to the 2014-2015 slowdown at West Coast ports. In August 2015, Rep. Reichert introduced H.R. 3433, the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipment (PORTS) Act to reduce the threat of harmful economic impacts of disruptions at U.S. ports. In February 2015, Washington Rep. Reichert and Oregon Rep. Kurt Schrader led a bipartisan letter calling upon both parties to put aside their differences and quickly resolve the contract negotiation that had bogged down the operations of West Coast ports.
08.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Recently, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Tom Reed (R-NY) introduced bipartisan legislation to make permanent as well as to strengthen and incentivize the use of the energy efficient commercial buildings deduction found in Section 179D of the Internal Revenue Code. The bill (H.R. 3507) ensures that non-profits and tribal governments can benefit from the deduction just like federal, state, and local government building owners do. “Encouraging energy efficiency is important to our environment and consumers,” said Rep. Reichert. “This bill will further incentivize building owners to install energy efficient systems by making this tax deduction permanent and by making it work for non-profits and tribal governments. Our hospitals, schools, community organizations, and tribal community centers provide critical services to residents in Washington State and people around the country. These entities often operate with limited available funds while doing their best to serve their community. With this tax deduction, they will see a reduction in their energy and construction costs and will be able to focus more on providing important services to the people and families who count on them. Thank you to Reps. Blumenauer and Reed for joining me in support of this legislation.” “Improving energy efficiency saves money and reduces carbon emissions,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “By strengthening incentives for energy efficiency, we can help nonprofits and tribal governments cut costs, protect the environment, and better serve communities.” “Making this tax deduction permanent helps enhance energy efficiency in places such as schools and hospitals," said Rep. Reed. "As a result, there is both an economic and environmental benefit from this change. I am happy to stand with Reps. Reichert and Blumenauer to support this legislation.” Background: Since becoming law in 2005, 179D has proven to be an effective policy for investment in design and installation of energy efficient systems and structures benefiting consumers across the country. This simple, common-sense bill not only makes this deduction permanent, but it also includes several important improvements to enhance and promote the use of 179D. First, it expands the current law allocation provision to cover tribal governments and non-profits. Under current law, a public building owner may allocate the deduction to the primary designer of the property. Our bill expands this provision to allow non-profit and tribal government building owners to do the same. Second, the bill ensures that S corporations and partnerships receive the full benefit of an allocated deduction. Finally, the bill makes the deduction more compatible with the low-income housing tax credit thereby encouraging the construction of energy efficient affordable housing.
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after passage of the Make America Secure Appropriations Act of 2018. “With the passage of today’s legislation, Congress is taking action to keep America safe and support our troops,” said Rep. Reichert. “The Make America Secure Appropriations Act provides funding to strengthen our military through enhanced training, technological development, and providing our service members with the equipment and resources necessary to perform their critical mission. I am proud this bill recognizes the sacrifices of our current and former men and women in uniform not only by funding the largest pay raise for the military in eight years but also ensuring the highest level of funding ever to the Department of Veterans Affairs. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take swift action and move this legislation to the President’s desk and across the finish line.”
07.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Nita Lowey (D-NY) introduced a bipartisan resolution reinforcing America’s commitment to promoting access to quality education to the world’s most at-need children and youth across the globe. The resolution calls on the U.S. government to continue working with our global partners to increase the number of children who complete primary and secondary school, help train more teachers in the most disadvantaged communities, and improve access to textbooks and safe learning environments. To read the resolution, click HERE. “A child’s education, health, and economic outcomes are directly linked,” said Rep. Reichert. “While many of our children and grandchildren are enjoying summer break right now, 263 million kids around the world never even made it to school this year. We have an opportunity to transform the lives of young people by improving access to and the quality of education across the globe. Not only is this the right thing to do, but it will reduce global poverty, and make the world a safer, more stable place.” “No country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near-universal primary education,” said Rep. Lowey. “I believe that education is not only a moral imperative, it’s a global security issue. If we want to make sustained progress on international development and make the world a more stable place, we must prioritize international basic education, especially for girls and young women.”
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) along with Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX) and Kathy Castor (D-FL), introduced the bipartisan H.R. 3325, the Advancing Care for Exceptional Kids Act of 2017 (ACE Kids Act). The ACE Kids Act will help improve the coordination of and access to high quality care to ensure optimal outcomes for children with complex medical conditions on Medicaid, while assisting to contain costs. Most children with complex medical conditions receive care from multiple pediatric providers at multiple locations whom they access through Medicaid. The state-by-state variability of Medicaid programs and lack of a coordinated care plan creates a care system that is often fragmented and unnecessarily burdensome for these children and families who frequently cross state lines to access specialized care. “Children with unique medical needs often need specialized medical treatment that requires care from multiple specialists across a state or throughout the country,” said Rep. Reichert. “Under the current Medicaid system, a child’s medical information is not always shared between doctors, hospitals, or across state lines, forcing families to become their own care coordinators. This makes difficult situations even more challenging for families who are often times just trying to keep their child alive and can put children at risk of receiving improper treatment due to the lack of communication between doctors. The ACE Kids Act will give comfort to families by creating a national network of hospitals for children with complex issues as well as save taxpayer dollars by implementing a more effective, efficient system.” Background on the ACE Kids Act: Medicaid covers roughly 30 million children; approximately 6 percent of these children have complex medical conditions yet account for 40 percent of Medicaid spending on children. The ACE Kids Act of 2017 is designed to improve care for medically complex children in Medicaid, while also reducing spending. Published studies show cost savings and improved quality of care for this population when enrolled in an integrated and coordinated care program. In the 114th Congress, the ACE Kids Act was supported by 43 cosponsors in the Senate and 228 cosponsors in the House. In the 115th Congress, S. 428 has 17 bipartisan cosponsors at present. The ACE Kids Act is optional for states, children and families, and health care providers.
07.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, led a hearing on modernization of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The hearing followed the Administration’s release of its NAFTA negotiation priorities on Monday. During the hearing, the Committee heard from witnesses representing a wide range of sectors across the economy, including the CEO of Darigold, Stan Ryan, from Washington State. To watch Chairman Reichert’s opening remarks and the hearing in full, click HERE. Chairman Reichert’s prepared opening remarks: “Since its entry into force in 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, has transformed the U.S. and North American economy. It has reduced barriers to our exports and allowed American businesses to sell their goods and services more freely and competitively to markets around the world. NAFTA has given us a huge advantage in creating an integrated production base and supply chain. For example, we have improved our competitive edge against China because we can take advantage of our trading partners’ role in the production process. We have done so while creating good jobs here in the U.S. across all three sectors – agriculture, services, and manufacturing. “NAFTA has benefited my home state of Washington, in particular. Our businesses have exported more than $134 billion in goods to Canada and Mexico since 1994 supporting jobs in communities around Washington. Because of the elimination of Mexico’s 20 percent tariff on apples and pears through NAFTA, our exports of these products have increased by 70 percent to Mexico. Now, each year about 15 percent of apples from the Pacific Northwest are destined for Canada and Mexico. Moreover, consumers across Washington and the country are able to save costs when they purchase goods from Canada and Mexico. “Despite its success, NAFTA was negotiated more than two decades ago, when the economic landscape looked very different. In 1994, the digital economy was in its infancy, Mexico had yet to undertake significant legal and regulatory reforms, and the North American supply chain had not yet fully developed. “Today’s challenges require new rules, not only to reduce tariffs on our exports but to remove non-tariff barriers as well. And I am pleased that the Administration’s NAFTA negotiating objectives, which were released yesterday, set a high and ambitious bar to address many of these challenges head on. “Red tape and burdensome customs procedures, the expansion of forced localization requirements and restrictions on the flow of cross-border data, and inadequate rules governing e-commerce are just some of the problems Washington’s businesses are facing in today’s digital economy. “Our farmers and ranchers are fighting against the adoption of arbitrary sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions not based on science and the use of geographic indicators as a form of protectionism. For our dairy producers, we must address Canada’s dairy policies, including the National Ingredient Strategy, which constrain our producers from exporting to Canada and around the world. “The need for modern trade rules is clear – particularly in light of our withdrawal from TPP earlier this year. We must continue to lead in setting the high standards needed for today’s economy. “Today we will hear directly from U.S. companies across all sectors about the specific issues they face, how NAFTA has worked for them, and how NAFTA can be improved to grow American exports and create more jobs here at home. We will explore important questions like how NAFTA can better address distortions created by state-owned enterprises? How can we help our technology sector continue to thrive and lead the world in innovation? What challenges do our small businesses face because of overly burdensome customs procedures or outdated de minimis thresholds? How do we ensure that Mexico applies the benefits of the Information Technology Agreement to U.S. producers? And we must be sure to enforce new and current rules and provisions through effective dispute settlement provisions, including the proven tool of investor-state dispute settlement. “It is important that we get this right. “A modernized NAFTA agreement will serve as a template for future agreements with our trading partners – particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, where our withdrawal from TPP has left an urgent void. “Finally, it is vital that any transition to an improved NAFTA be seamless. Canada and Mexico remain our number one and three trading partners – two of our closest allies. We will break down the remaining barriers in Canada and Mexico, but we must also preserve the good that NAFTA has done in enhancing U.S. strength and increasing the competitiveness of the North American trading bloc as a whole against the rest of the world. “When North America wins, America wins.”
07.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statements after the Trump Administration released its negotiating objectives for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Chairman Reichert said: “Washington’s consumers, farmers, and manufacturers have benefited greatly from NAFTA, and these gains must be maintained. At the same time we have an opportunity to modernize the agreement to address new issues. The Administration’s NAFTA negotiating objectives set a high and ambitious bar to update and upgrade NAFTA. These objectives would address challenges Washington’s businesses face in today’s digital economy. This includes red tape and burdensome customs procedures, the expansion of forced localization requirements and restrictions on the flow of cross-border data, and inadequate rules governing e-commerce. These objectives would also help Washington’s innovators by protecting intellectual property and support the work of our farmers and producers, who rely on access to foreign markets but face significant challenges caused by arbitrary restrictions and protectionist measures. “The creation of new markets for American products and services through trade agreements goes hand-in-hand with enforcement, and we must be sure to enforce new and current rules through effective dispute settlement provisions, including the proven tool of investor-state dispute settlement. “The need for modern trade rules is clear – particularly in light of our withdrawal from TPP earlier this year. We must continue to lead in setting the high standards needed for today’s economy. These objectives will do just that.” Chairman Brady stated: “I welcome the Trump Administration’s release of its detailed negotiating objectives to modernize and upgrade NAFTA to ensure it continues to benefit American workers. These objectives set an ambitious standard for improving NAFTA and make clear that the United States is seeking strong, enforceable rules that go beyond any agreement ever negotiated. For example, the Administration intends to go well beyond TPP in imposing disciplines on state-owned enterprises that distort trade. Setting such high standards allows us to use an improved NAFTA as a model for future trade agreements, which means that the United States would be setting global rules – not our competitors. “I’m also pleased to see enforcement highlighted in these objectives, through the inclusion of enforceable standards and strong dispute settlement procedures. A rigorous investor-state dispute settlement process is essential to holding other countries accountable and ensuring that other countries play by the same rules. “Finally, I emphasize that as we improve NAFTA, we must preserve the advantages that our manufacturers, service providers, farmers, workers, and consumers now enjoy with respect to NAFTA across our economy. Maintaining existing benefits, plus improving our access to Mexico and Canada, will allow us to continue to create American jobs, spur economic growth, and open up new opportunities for all Americans through NAFTA.”
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – This morning, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, which authorizes funding for the Department of Defense (DoD) and other national security programs for Fiscal Year 2018. “Today, the House took action to uphold our most important responsibility to the American people – protecting their freedom and safety,” said Rep. Reichert. “We live in a world with eminent threats spanning the globe and advanced weaponry now in the hands of our enemies. We must ensure our military is fully equipped with the offensive and defensive capabilities necessary to keep Americans safe. This bill sends a clear message to the world that we remain the world’s strongest, smartest military.” “Under this year’s NDAA, we will also fulfil the military’s request for additional personnel, provide our troops with the resources necessary to perform their critical mission, and give our men and women in uniform a much-deserved pay raise – the largest in eight years. I applaud my colleagues for taking the right steps today to protect American lives and give our service members the recognition they deserve.”
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing entitled “Modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement.” The hearing will analyze whether NAFTA has been successful for the U.S. economy and job creation, with a focus on the U.S. manufacturing, agriculture, and services sectors. Members will also discuss how NAFTA can be modernized and updated to better address issues affecting U.S. workers, businesses, and consumers in today’s economy. The hearing will take place on Tuesday, July 18, in room 1100 Longworth House Office Building at 10:00 AM. “NAFTA has been remarkably successful for American workers, businesses, farmers, and consumers, but the world has changed so much since it was negotiated in 1993," said Chairman Reichert." We have an opportunity now to improve and update NAFTA to make it a stronger agreement that opens markets for U.S. goods and services and holds other countries accountable with strict and enforceable rules. “I look forward to discussing the ways in which NAFTA is working, as well as how it can be strengthened and improved. Our trade agreements, when done right and strictly enforced, level the playing field for American producers to export our goods and services to consumers all around the world. This hearing provides an opportunity for American agricultural producers, manufacturers, and services providers to share their views on how we can modernize NAFTA to create more jobs and opportunities for all Americans.”
07.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statements regarding the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) report on the competitive conditions affecting the U.S. aluminum industry. Subcommittee Chairman Reichert said: “After the idling and closings of aluminum plants across the country, including in Wenatchee in my district, it was important to take a deeper look at the causes behind the disruptions in the aluminum industry. Maintaining our competitiveness in the global market is critical to the many good-paying American jobs that depend on the strength of the industry. “Thank you to the Commission and its staff for this thorough report on a complex issue. It will serve as an important roadmap as Congress, stakeholders, and the Administration consider how best to address issues of global overcapacity in the aluminum industry and support American workers in all parts of the supply chain. With a collaborative and thoughtful solution, we can ensure our workers and producers compete and win on the world stage.” Chairman Brady remarked: “In 2016, I requested that the ITC examine whether China’s subsidies and other distortive policies have led to significant overcapacity that hurts American aluminum producers and their employees. I asked the Commission to specifically investigate the impact of other factors affecting the competitiveness of the U.S. industry, including electricity prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar. “The ITC has now delivered a detailed and sophisticated analysis of the competitive conditions aluminum producers across our country face. I appreciate the thorough and objective report by the Commission and its staff on an issue that affects so many American workers. The ITC’s report will be tremendously valuable as lawmakers, industry participants, and Trump Administration officials work together to find targeted, effective, and appropriate solutions to the problem of Chinese overcapacity and other distortions in global aluminum markets. “As we move forward together to address these challenges, we must build on the success U.S. companies are having in certain sectors of the aluminum industry throughout the supply chain and also address distortions that hurt our producers in other sectors of that industry. Working together, we can deliver an effective policy solution that will make our country and our workers more competitive in the global market.” Background: The ITC’s comprehensive investigation over the last 16 months included collecting questionnaire responses from industry participants throughout the supply chain, conducting a public hearing, interviewing key industry experts in the United States and key foreign markets, and customizing a sophisticated analytical model to estimate the impact of certain distortive policies across the entire supply chain.
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Nanette Barragán (D-CA) and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to reform the outdated Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF). The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act of 2017 would make sure all of the money collected through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) each year is returned directly to ports in order to improve infrastructure and keep ports competitive. Currently, the HMT is not collected or spent in a way that ensures ports can continue to compete on a level playing field. Some ports, including the Ports of Seattle, Tacoma, Los Angeles, and Long Beach, receive just pennies for each dollar contributed to the HMTF from cargo unloaded at their ports. As so-called “donor ports,” they don’t receive the necessary investments they need to remain competitive. In recent years, U.S. ports have seen ports outside of the country target and capture U.S.-bound cargo in part because of the cost advantage of not charging the HMT. The legislation introduced today would address these inequities, enhance economic competiveness, and support jobs in Washington state and around the U.S. by ensuring donor ports can access funding for port infrastructure and rebates to shippers transporting cargo through their ports rather than routing cargo through Canada or Mexico to the U.S. “As one of the most trade-dependent states, strong ports are critical to Washington’s local economy,” said Rep. Reichert. “For too long, our ports have been put at a disadvantage - contributing much more than their fair share to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and facing the loss of cargo to foreign ports because of the Harbor Maintenance Tax. By increasing funding to these ports including for rebates to shippers, the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act will help level the playing field supporting jobs and communities in Washington.” “For far too long, federal funding for seaports has been inadequate and unfair to donor ports like the Port of Los Angeles which contributes far too much into the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than it receives,” said Rep. Barragán. “I am proud to partner with Congressman Reichert in this bipartisan effort to provide equity and more funding for operations and maintenance at our nation’s seaports, enhancing economic competitiveness and creating good-paying jobs.” “For more than a decade, a number of U.S. ports have been operating at a competitive disadvantage, which is a drag on our economy and on thousands of good-paying jobs,” said Sen. Murray. “The bipartisan bill we are introducing would be a critical step toward restoring investments in our ports, jobs, and economic development in Washington state and around the country.” The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act of 2017 would: Establish full use of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund each year with interest by creating a direct spending mechanism for the HMTF; Ensure HMTF funds collected are allocated fully and more equitably by establishing a set-aside for donor ports; Address the issue of cargo diversion by increasing investments to donor ports to provide rebates to shippers transporting cargo through their ports or for port infrastructure needs; Support operation and maintenance at our small ports and harbors by updating the baseline for the set-aside for small ports; and Better meet our nationwide harbor and waterway needs. Other House cosponsors of the bill include: Reps. Adam Smith (WA-09), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Denny Heck (WA-10), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Nanette Barragán (CA-44), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47).
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, released the following statement after supporting H.R. 3004 and voting against H.R. 3003. “We must send a clear message to anyone determined to cause harm that they will face serious consequences,” said Rep. Reichert. “I supported Kate’s Law because it holds criminals accountable and enhances these consequences. Increasing penalties for criminal offenders will serve as a strong deterrent and will make our communities and families safer.” “I could not support today’s vote to cut COPS funding because, simply put, it punishes law enforcement. They are just trying to do their job. Police and community relationships are severely strained today and law enforcement is continually being asked to do more with less. The men and woman who put their lives on the line every day to protect our families need our support now more than ever. All criminals must be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law, but withholding critical dollars for law enforcement agencies that are already facing hiring shortages and a lack of resources for equipment and training will only result in putting more burdens on the very people who are willing to risk everything to keep our communities safe. We would not have sanctuary cities and be punishing law enforcement if Congress had done our job and come together to pass comprehensive immigration reform.”
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and John Larson (D-CT) recently introduced the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, which would make it easier for private sector companies to contribute to philanthropic causes in their communities, the country, and around the globe. “Many businesses are motivated to help their communities and tackle some of the greatest issues facing the world today,” said Rep. Reichert. “But our current tax code is making it difficult to do so. The Philanthropic Enterprise Act would reduce these tax barriers and better allow cause-driven enterprises to take on philanthropic roles, strengthening their contributions to society. I am proud to work with my colleague, Rep. Larson, to create an environment where businesses can do well by doing good.” “This bipartisan bill is an example of how the tax code can support, rather than stand as a barrier to innovative, socially-responsible organizations like Connecticut’s Newman’s Own, who since their inception has proudly operated under the philosophy of 100 percent of their profits going towards charitable foundations and causes,” said Rep. Larson. “I am proud to introduce this bill alongside my friend Rep. Reichert to support businesses across the nation who are dedicated to promoting the social good.” To read a Roll Call oped by Rep. Reichert about the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, click HERE
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. Senate released its healthcare legislation. "I am currently reviewing the Senate’s healthcare bill to see if it meets the high standards patients in Washington State and throughout the country expect and deserve," said Rep. Reichert. "It is clear our current health care system is not living up to its promises. Just this week, Washington’s Insurance Commissioner announced that in 2018 our state will be losing 2 more insurers and 80 health plans – more than 50 percent of our current plans. Premiums are also expected to go up an average of 23.3 percent across the state. This continues the troubling trend of fewer health insurers offering fewer plans while premiums and out of pocket expenses continue to rise. In fact, there is now an entire county in our state - Klickitat - where no plans will be offered in 2018. This is not a status-quo we can accept. Congress must work to fix this broken system, but we must do it while protecting the most vulnerable in our communities, including children on Medicaid, people with preexisting conditions, and older Americans. These always have been and will continue to be my healthcare priorities. I look forward to working with both my Senate and House colleagues on crafting a bill that meets these high standards."
06.15.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), David McKinley (R-WV), Tim Walz (D-MN), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and John Katko (R-NY) introduced the bipartisan IDEA Full Funding Act, H.R. 2902, to level the playing field for children with disabilities and provide them with a high quality education. In 1975, Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), with the goal of guaranteeing that every child with disabilities would have the opportunity to reach his or her full potential. At that time, the federal government committed to pay 40 percent of the average per pupil expenditure for special education. Unfortunately, that pledge has never been met: current federal funding makes up just 15.7 percent. The bipartisan IDEA Full Funding Act would require regular increases in IDEA spending to finally meet the federal commitment to America’s children and schools, relieve the burden on states and local school districts, and ensure educational opportunities for all students with disabilities. “Children of all abilities have the same right to a quality education,” said Rep. Reichert. “We have made a promise and have a moral responsibility to make sure all children are given the resources necessary to learn and grow. As a godfather to a child with special needs, I have seen just how much of a difference special education programs can make in a young person’s life and for their family. The bipartisan IDEA Full Funding Act tells our children that they are all worthy and that we are committed to ensuring they reach their full potential.” “The law guarantees every student the right to a free and appropriate public education, but Congress needs to provide the resources to make that guarantee meaningful.” said Rep. Huffman. “That’s why I’m joining with my colleagues from across the aisle to introduce the IDEA Full Funding Act, because we know that providing our children with a first-class education should not be a partisan issue. The bottom line is this: no child should ever be denied a quality education, or be kept from reaching their full potential, because they have a disability. The IDEA Full Funding Act, which is supported by teachers, parents, school leaders, and disability advocates, would ensure our schools have the resources they need to support students with disabilities, and that Congress finally meets its commitments to all students.” “The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act created a commitment to children with special needs and their families,” said Rep. McKinley. “This is a promise the federal government has failed to keep until now. The IDEA Full Funding Act puts us on a path towards fulfilling the promise we made to our children and grandchildren” “As a teacher, I believe every child deserves a shot at the American Dream and the chance to reach their full potential,” said Rep. Walz. “The federal government needs to hold up their end of the bargain to ensure this promise can be reality. This legislation helps us uphold one of our nation’s core values: every child deserves the opportunity to succeed.” “In four decades, we’ve failed to keep up with our own promise, as Congress mandated by law, to fund education programs for students with disabilities,” said Rep. Schrader. “This is unacceptable for every one of our students. It’s the schools that have to pick up the tab where we’ve fallen short. That not only costs our school districts money, but it takes away from other programs, diminishing the overall quality of education our communities can provide. Our bill will finally fulfill that promise and relieve our schools, giving them the ability to better fund programs like Advanced Placement, CTE, and STEM.” "After over 40 years of the Federal Government failing to fulfil its promise to students of all abilities throughout our country, I am proud to work with my colleagues to introduce this crucial piece of legislation,” said Rep. Katko. “This bill will require the Federal Government to finally meet its commitment to support special education and the teachers who work tirelessly to ensure all of our children have an opportunity to succeed." Senator Van Hollen (D-MD) plans to introduce companion legislation in the United States Senate. The IDEA Full Funding Act is supported by teachers, school administrators, parents, and disability advocates, including: AASA, The School Superintendents Association, American Council for School Social Work, American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees, American Federation of Teachers, American Music Therapy Association, American Occupational Therapy Association, American Physical Therapy Association, American Psychological Association, American Speech-Language-Hearing-Association, Association of School, Business Officials International, Association of Educational Service Agencies, Council of Administrators of Special Education, Council of Great City Schools, Council for Exceptional Children, Council for Exceptional Children (Teacher Education Division), Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, Higher Education Consortium for Special Education, Learning Disabilities Association of America, National Association of Elementary School Principals , National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Association of Social Workers, National Association of School Psychologists, National Association of State Directors of Special Education, National Center for Learning Disabilities, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Disability Rights Network, National Down Syndrome Congress, National Education Association, National PTA, National Rural Education Advocacy Consortium, National Rural Education Association, National School Boards Association, School Social Work Association of America, Software & Information Industry Association, TASH, and The ARC of the United States.
06.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), -Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and André Carson (D-IN) introduced a House Resolution honoring the United States Capitol Police: H. Con. Res. 64 was created in order to recognize the United States Capitol Police (USCP) and their officers’ dedication to protecting the institution and its staff in the face of new and dynamic threats in the 21st century. This resolution will help honor and respect the bravery displayed by USCP on a daily basis and for their innumerable sacrifices to protect Members of Congress, their staff, and the general public. “U.S. Capitol Police do not see red or blue,” said Rep. Reichert. “And as we saw yesterday, they do not hesitate to act swiftly and take fire when someone’s safety is at risk. In an environment where the airwaves are filled with headlines of political feuds, they are a steady, unbiased source of comfort and security to the Capitol Hill community. Their commitment to serving and protecting Members of Congress, congressional aids, and visitors from around the world is party-blind and unwavering. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of colleagues in recognizing their tremendous sacrifice, bravery, and professionalism.” “I have served for almost a quarter of a century in the United States Congress, and I have witnessed on many accounts the men and women of the U.S. Capitol Police putting their lives on the line to protect this community,” said Rep.Johnson. “Their dedication to this institution and its people has been steadfast, even in the face of the dynamic threats that face Congress. The officers work tirelessly toward ensuring our security, often times without apparent gratitude or recognition. This resolution is just one way for the Congressional community to honor these individuals and express our gratitude once and for all.” “The U.S. Capitol Police are some of America’s finest men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Carson. “Each day, these officers perform some of the most important jobs here on the Hill: protecting the thousands of men and women who work at the Capitol complex, as well as the millions of visitors who travel here each year in hopes of seeing our democracy at work. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of colleagues in recognizing their tremendous efforts.” “The Capitol Police generally don’t get the recognition they deserve. Their bravery this week saved lives, which is just as important as the peace of mind they provide as our nation’s duly elected decision-makers shuffle between buildings and venues all day long,” said Rep. Pascrell. “This is a thankless job about 99 percent of the time. So, I’m proud to honor, not only Special Agents Crystal Griner and David Bailey, who showed extraordinary courage this week, but the full force that protects and serves our nation’s capital.”
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the shooting of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), members of the U.S. Capitol Police, and a congressional aide at a Virginia ballpark this morning. “I am praying for everyone who was at the scene this morning and their families and for the quick and full recovery of my friend and colleague, Steve Scalise, the brave members of the Capitol Police who came to his assistance, and the House aide who were tragically shot this morning. During times of heightened political tensions, it is important that as Americans we do not separate ourselves by party identity, but come together as one American family.” “My staff and I are safe and I am working from my Washington, D.C. office this morning.”
06.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Derek Kilmer (WA-06) introduced a bill to award an elite group of Vietnam veterans with the Congressional Gold Medal. ‘Dust Off’ crews, as they were known by their radio call sign, flew unarmed air ambulances into hostile areas to rescue the wounded and provided critical medical treatment as they evacuated troops during the Vietnam War. The Dust Off Crews of the Vietnam War Congressional Gold Medal Act would award members of the Vietnam-era Dust Off crews with the Congressional Gold Medal. “Committed to never leaving one of their fellow soldiers behind, American Dust Off Crews of the Vietnam War risked and put their lives on the line - often flying into enemy fire in high-casualty war zones – to come to the aid of wounded American soldiers,” said Rep. Reichert. “Over the course of the war, their bravery and experience led to the rescue of nearly 900,000 American soldiers. The Dust Off Crews of the Vietnam War Congressional Gold Medal Act is just a small way to express our gratitude for their unwavering patriotism against the toughest of odds.” “Dustoff Crews serving in the Army risked their lives to bring others back safely,” said Rep. Kilmer. “But their contributions and sacrifices are too often a forgotten story of the Vietnam War. I’m proud to work with Representative Reichert to properly thank these servicemembers for what they accomplished.”
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Tom Cole (OK-04), and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today introduced the Tribal Social Security Fairness Act to allow tribal council members to participate in Social Security — including paying Social Security payroll taxes and receiving earned benefits in retirement — in a similar manner as state and local governments. Today, tribal council members are precluded from receiving Social Security coverage. The Tribal Social Security Fairness Act would make a technical fix to end this unfair practice. “Our tribal leaders deserve access to Social Security benefits if they choose to opt-in to the system,” said Rep. Reichert. “Many tribal leaders had been paying into Social Security with the expectation of future benefits before a policy ruling issued in 2006 that prevented them from continuing to pay into the program and have their earnings count toward future benefits. The Tribal Social Security Fairness Act is about righting this wrong and giving tribal governments the same opportunity to opt-in to this program that so many rely on.” “Tribal leaders shouldn’t be barred from access to Social Security. It's the most successful public policy program in our nation’s history,” said Rep. Kilmer. “I’m proud to work in a bipartisan fashion to fix this mistake.” “The Tribal Social Security Fairness Act will overturn an ill-conceived policy that prevented tribal council members from participating in Social Security,” said Rep. Cole. “All Americans should have the right to retire with the knowledge that the payroll taxes they paid into Social Security will give them access to the benefits they have earned. This correction is long overdue and I look forward to working with my colleagues to restore fairness to the treatment of America’s tribal council members.” “For more than 80 years, Social Security has kept seniors out of poverty and provided a vital safety-net for the middle class. There is no reason this same benefit shouldn’t extend to tribal leaders who choose to opt-in,” said Rep. DelBene. “The Tribal Social Security Fairness Act is about equity for tribal nations and removing barriers for talented native leaders wishing to serve their communities. All Americans deserve to retire with dignity and economic security, and I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion to advance forward-looking reforms that improve Social Security for all Washingtonians.” When Social Security was created in 1935, state and local government employees were excluded from receiving Social Security coverage. The Social Security Amendments of 1950 gave states the option to extend Social Security coverage to certain state and local government employees. However, these amendments failed to address the needs of elected tribal council members. This bill makes the needed technical fix so tribal nations can voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Social Security Administration (SSA) to allow their elected leaders to participate in Social Security.
06.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today issued the following statements praising today’s findings by a World Trade Organization (WTO) compliance panel regarding a longstanding dispute with the European Union over aircraft subsidies. The panel rejected 28 out of 29 of the European Union’s claims that the United States provides WTO-inconsistent subsidies to Boeing. Subcommittee Chairman Reichert said: “Because the EU does not play by the rules, American aerospace employees have not been able to compete on a level playing field. In rejecting virtually all claims made by the European Union, today’s decision makes clear that the U.S. complies with the rules but the EU does not—the EU continues to provide nearly $22 billion in illegal subsidies, jeopardizing American jobs. Thank you to USTR for its commitment to the tens of thousands of workers employed by the aerospace industry in my home state of Washington, and thanks to the WTO for calling out the EU for this unfairness.” As Chairman Brady said: “Today’s report is a decisive victory for the American aerospace industry and its workers in one of the longest trade disputes in modern history. For decades, the European Union has provided tens of billions of dollars worth of illegal subsidies to Airbus at the expense of American companies like Boeing and aerospace workers. The EU has continued to justify its subsidies by falsely claiming the need to offset alleged illegal subsidies by the United States. Today’s decision puts to rest that excuse – once and for all.”
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) held a reception honoring the 2017 Military Academy Nomination recipients. This year, 11 high school students were accepted to one of the highly competitive U.S. Service Academies. “Going off to college is a big decision for any young man or woman,” said Rep. Reichert. “But our service academy nominees are making more than a decision – they are making a sacrifice. They are committing themselves to serving our country and choosing to attend an institution that will not just be academically challenging, but will challenge them physically and emotionally. It was a privilege to shake their hands and I know they will make our region and our country proud.” Below are the 2017 nominees: US Air Force Academy Bradley Kim, Sammamish, Skyline High School Susannah Noble, Spanaway, Bethel High School Jessica Weirzbicki, Wenatchee, Wenatchee High School US Merchant Marine Academy Brandon Lewis, Black Diamond, Tahoma Senior High School US Military Academy Jacob Dotson, Cashmere, Cashmere High School Matthew Simmons, Black Diamond, Tahoma Senior High School Korbyn Stahl, Sammamish, Eastlake High School Jake Torrens, Kent, Virginia/Blacksburg High School US Naval Academy Caleb Johnston, Sammamish, Skyline High School Nicole Victory, Issaquah, Issaquah High School Juliet Yu, Auburn, Auburn Riverside High School
06.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert sent the following letter to his colleagues in the U.S. House to raise awareness about Secure Loads Day and urge them to take action to prevent deaths and injuries from unsecured loads. The Secure Your Load movement was spearheaded by one of the Congressman’s constituents, Robin Abel, whose daughter was catastrophically injured by an unsecured load in February of 2004. As a result of her activism, 46 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands have launched initiatives to raise awareness about the dangers of unsecured loads. Dear Colleagues – I write you to encourage you to support efforts and spread the message about the importance of properly securing your loads while driving on our nation’s roads in honor of June 6th Secure Your Load Day. According to a recent study by the AAA Foundation for Safety, more than 200,000 crashes in the past four years were caused by road debris. The study showed that road debris resulted in approximately 39,000 injuries and 500 deaths between 2011 and 2014. According to another statistic, as a nation, we spend up to $11.5 billion on litter and it is estimated that 20% to 40% of that litter is from unsecured loads. Robin Abel from my district was made all too aware of the dangers of this avoidable peril when her daughter was catastrophically injured by an unsecured load. In an effort to raise awareness and even change the law, Robin started a Secure Your Load movement in 2004. And over the course of 13 years, she’s done just that. In fact, she worked with me and several other members to include language providing load-securing recommendations to states in the FAST Act that was enacted into law in December 2015 (P.L. 114-94). This language will encourage states to take action to educate law enforcement and the public on the importance of securing loads on our roads. Driving with an unsecured load is extremely dangerous and against the law in many states. For example, due to Robin’s advocacy efforts, my home state of Washington has one of the strongest state laws that includes penalties for those who don’t properly secure their loads when driving on Washington state roads. Additionally, 46 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands have programs to help educate the public on the vital importance of load securement. This shows states are embracing this important safety message. In fact, state and local safety professionals and law enforcement across the country are participating in Securing Your Load Day on June 6. Some of the states are even planning to announce a proclamation June 6th in support of this day of awareness. According to advocates, this specific date was chosen in honor of Matthew Reif of Arizona, 29, who was killed on impact on June 6, 2006, when an unsecured 10-pound piece of scrap metal from a truck in front of him smashed through his windshield. On June 6th, in honor of those whose lives have been impacted by unsecured loads and road debris, I encourage my colleagues to get the message out on properly securing our loads when traveling on our nation’s roads. This simple precaution will save lives. Sincerely, DAVE REICHERT Member of Congress
06.01.2017	Washington, DC. –Today,Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after President Trump announced plans to withdraw from the Paris Accord. "The Paris Accord gives the United States a global platform to be a leading voice on international issues impacting our economy, security, and the environment," said Rep. Reichert. "Withdrawing from the agreement could cause us to lose this influence. I have always believed stewardship of our environment and sound economic policy are not mutually exclusive. With an innovative, market-based energy strategy we can both reduce emissions and create jobs here at home."
05.23.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the President's Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Proposal. "I agree with pieces of the President’s budget that aim to strengthen our military, defeat terrorism, spend taxpayer dollars responsibly, and invest in infrastructure, but I am concerned with the proposed cuts to important programs that Americans depend on, including life-saving medical research at the National Institutes of Health," said Rep. Reichert. "The White House’s budget proposal is an outline of the Administration’s priorities, however, the power to write and pass a budget belongs to Congress. As Congress drafts its own Fiscal Year 2018 budget, I will continue to fight to maintain strong support for programs that strengthen our communities, support vulnerable populations, and ensure good stewardship of our public lands."
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) introduced a bipartisan bill to jump start overdue maintenance projects in national parks. The National Park Service Legacy Act would provide investments that would go toward reducing the more than $11 billion backlog the National Park Service faces to repair roads, visitor facilities, trails, and other park structures. The act would address the backlog by distributing revenue the government receives from oil and gas royalties back into a restoration fund. It has been endorsed by the National Parks Conservation Association, Pew Charitable Trusts, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “In Washington State, we are privileged to have some of the nation’s most breathtaking national parks in our backyard,” said Rep. Reichert.“ But like anything else, these natural treasures require maintenance. In order to maintain and preserve our local parks, including Mt. Rainier National Park, and continue attracting international visitors, we must make sure our trails, bridges, sewer systems, and other maintenance projects are taken care of. The National Park Service Legacy Act invests in the long-term health of our parks, protecting our local economies and ensuring they will be in good shape for future generations to enjoy." “I grew up near Olympic National Park and gained an appreciation for how much our national parks do to captivate visitors and create jobs,” said Kilmer. “But many of our most iconic landscapes and historical buildings are falling into disrepair. I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort that will be an economic boost to rural communities and keep our parks accessible for future generations.” “National Parks are a part of the American experience and the seven in my district, including Big Bend and the San Antonio Missions, provide immeasurable cultural, environmental and economic benefits. We have a responsibility as a nation to care for these treasures, yet in Texas alone, there are roughly $147 million in backlogged National Park maintenance projects,” said Hurd. “This bill will provide more flexible financing options and revenue sources so that our parks can remain beautiful and accessible for future generations of park-goers to enjoy.” “America’s National Parks are irreplaceable public treasures that must be maintained for future generations,” said Hanabusa. “With deferred maintenance costs increasing annually relative to past appropriations, Congress must find new and novel revenue streams to preserve these critical lands and habitats for the enjoyment of all. The bipartisan National Park Service Legacy Act is the right solution at the right time and I thank my colleagues, Representatives Kilmer, Hurd and Reichert, for their vision and determination to address deferred maintenance in our national parks.” “National parks are valuable for so many reasons. They are economic engines for gateway communities, provide recreational opportunities for hundreds of millions of people, and protect our country’s natural and cultural heritage. Yet for far too long, our parks have been underfunded. So we shouldn’t be surprised that, as a result, they’re facing a $12 billion maintenance backlog. Buildings are crumbling, roads need repairs, trails are overgrown, and aging sewer systems are at risk of failing. This backlog will only continue to grow unless we take action. This bipartisan, bicameral proposal makes a strong investment that our parks desperately need and deserve. Parks unify people, and Congress should be no different. Lawmakers should seize this opportunity, put forth by Representatives Hurd, Kilmer, Hanabusa, and Reichert, to help fix our parks and recognize the value they provide,” said Theresa Pierno, President and CEO, National Parks Conservation Association. “We commend Representatives Hurd, Kilmer, Hanabusa and Reichert for introducing bipartisan legislation that will help fund the much needed repair and preservation of historic and cultural resources in our national parks,” said Stephanie Meeks, president and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “From Texas’ San Antonio Missions National Historical Park to Olympic National Park in Washington, historic buildings and sites at our national parks and monuments tell the story of America. Along with the Senate companion bill introduced by Senators Mark Warner and Rob Portman, this legislation will address the almost $12 billion critical maintenance backlog plaguing our national parks and allow these special places to continue to tell our stories to future generations of Americans.” “This bill proves that the call for Congress to fix our aging parks is being heard. More than 75 municipalities have passed resolutions asking Congress to restore our park infrastructure. And more than 1,800 organizations, businesses, associations, chambers of commerce, and elected officials have signed a letter urging congressional lawmakers to provide dedicated funding to repair the national parks by reducing the size of their deferred maintenance backlog,” said Marcia Argust, director of The Pew Charitable Trusts’ Restore America’s Parks Project. Founded in 1916, the National Park Service (NPS) is responsible for managing more than 84 million acres comprised of over 400 significant cultural, historic, and natural areas across all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and four territories.
05.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) released the following statements after the Department of Justice announced the nationwide rollout of the National Blue Alert Network, which was created by the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015. This bill was sponsored by Reps. Reichert and Pascrell who jointly chair the House Law Enforcement Caucus and was signed into law by President Obama on May 19, 2015. The National Blue Alert Network will help apprehend violent criminals who have injured or killed police officers or who have made an imminent or credible threat to cause serious injury or death to a law enforcement officer. “The successful implementation of a National Blue Alert Network not only shows our law enforcement that we care about their sacrifices but that we are doing our part to help keep them safe,” said Rep. Reichert. “With an almost 40 percent increase in law enforcement deaths so far this year, we have to do more to bring people who attack our officers to justice. Blue alert will help protect our families, neighbors, and officers by quickly disseminating information we need to catch suspects and keep our communities safe.” “After nearly two years of waiting for the Blue Alert system to be implemented, I am pleased the Department of Justice is finally ready for its nationwide rollout," said Rep. Pascrell. "The brave men and women in law enforcement need the rapid dissemination of critical, time-sensitive information about suspected criminals who are planning an imminent attack on police officers. I hope the Blue Alert system will give those in uniform some peace of mind knowing that we are doing all we can to make their already dangerous job a bit safer.” Background: The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act (P.L. 114-12) recognizes the tragic murders and sacrifice of NYPD officers Ramos and Liu who were killed in 2014 just before Christmas while sitting in their squad car in Brooklyn, NY. Officer Ramos was a father of two and had been with the NYPD for two years. Officer Liu had been with the force for seven years and had recently married. No actions of their own had provoked the December attack that took their lives. In these instances, the rapid dissemination of critical, time-sensitive information about suspected criminals who are planning an attack on police officers is essential to keeping our communities safe and may have prevented the assassinations of Officers Ramos and Liu. Based on the success of the AMBER and SILVER Alert systems, the law directed the Attorney General to assign an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator responsible for creating voluntary guidelines to assist states in developing Blue Alert plans. These state Blue Alert plans will disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is killed or injured in the line of duty, as well as when there are active threats against police officers. While over 20 states have already developed Blue Alert systems, criminals do not respect borders, and to this end the law encourages more states to establish plans so they can quickly communicate and share information with each other and the public about potentially dangerous offenders on the run. Rep. Reichert and Pascrell introduced the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act in March of 2015. After the passage of the bill, Congressman Reichert continued to push for its implementation. In August of 2016, Rep. Reichert led a letter to the Department of Justice outlining his concerns about the lack of progress and urged the DOJ to quickly and effectively implement the legislation. Subsequently, the COPS Director was designated to serve as the national coordinator for Blue Alert. More information can be found on their website.
05.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, released the following statement after a bipartisan bill he championed with Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), the Probation Officer Protection Act, passed the U.S. House. The Probation Officer Protection Act protects probation officers and enhances their ability to do their job by giving them authority to arrest a third party who forcibly interferes with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties. “When a probation officer goes to an offender’s home they do not know who will be there or what type of welcome they will receive, “ said Rep. Reichert. “Third parties, like a friend or neighbor may assault the officer or forcibly prevent them from doing their critical job of making sure the offender is on the right path. Now officers are left with no choice but to retreat and call local law enforcement for support, which in some cases could take 30 minutes to an hour given the severe officer shortages we have across the country. The Probation Officer Protection Act will address this issue by giving our probation officers the right to protect themselves, protect probationers, and safely carry out their official duties under the law.” “Even though preventing a federal probation officer from performing his or her official duties is against the law, current law does not provide these officers the authority to correct or restrain an interfering third party," said Rep. Pascrell. "As fully trained and sworn federal law enforcement officers, these brave men and women should not be worried about interference while carrying out their routine visits. Thankfully, my co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Dave Reichert, and I came together to introduce and pass the Probation Officer Protection Act to close this gap in current law.” Prior to the passage of the bill, Rep. Reichert spoke on the House floor urging his colleagues to join him in supporting the legislation. To watch his remarks, click HERE.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC –Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), and Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) introduced resolution, S. Con. Res. 16 and H. Con. Res. 54, expressing support for stronger relations between the United States and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). “Our engagement with APEC countries has led to increased trade with a growing region of the world and the creation of jobs here at home,” said Rep. Reichert. “For decades, we have worked with APEC to strengthen our economic ties with the Asia-Pacific, and for my home state these ties are critical to the success of our economy. I am proud to join with my colleagues to reiterate my support for the importance of APEC to grow trade, increase standards, and create jobs." The resolution notes that “trade and investment between the United States and the Asia-Pacific region has created new commercial opportunities and jobs in the United States.” The resolution also states that “strengthening trade and investment between the United States and other APEC members and addressing tariff and nontariff barriers to United States exports has the potential to benefit United States businesses, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, workers, and consumers.” The resolution calls for continued U.S. engagement with APEC in “promoting economic growth through the adoption of rules-based policies to strengthen trade and investment between the United States and other APEC members.” APEC is a forum for 21 countries bordering the Pacific Ocean to promote trade liberalization and investment between Asia-Pacific countries. The United States is a founding member. The Asia-Pacific trade ministers are scheduled to meet this weekend in Vietnam. The full text of the resolution is below and can be found here. Expressing support for strengthening engagement between the United States and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). Whereas the United States and the other members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (in this preamble referred to as “APEC”) have, since 1989, worked collaboratively to advance commercial and trade interests in the Asia-Pacific region; Whereas the Asia-Pacific region accounts for 41 percent of the world’s population, 54 percent of the world’s gross domestic product, and 44 percent of the world’s trade; Whereas expanding trade and investment between the United States and the Asia-Pacific region has created new commercial opportunities and jobs in the United States; Whereas United States businesses in the Asia-Pacific region face obstacles to doing business in the region as a result of tariff and nontariff barriers, including discriminatory policies and regulations; Whereas strengthening trade and investment between the United States and other APEC members and addressing tariff and nontariff barriers to United States exports has the potential to benefit United States businesses, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, workers, and consumers; Whereas APEC was established as a regional economic forum to leverage the growing interdependence of the Asia-Pacific region to create greater prosperity for the people of the region and serves as a forum for the United States to address business concerns, promote high standards, and facilitate economic growth in the region; Whereas APEC contributes to United States economic policies that promote fairness, due process, and the rule of law by supporting trade rules embodied in the World Trade Organization (in this preamble referred to as the “WTO”) and the establishment of new WTO commitments, developing model measures for high quality trade agreements in the Asia-Pacific region, encouraging coherence in regulations and standards in the region, and encouraging policies to promote development of the digital economy; and Whereas the APEC Leaders’ Meeting in November 2017 in Da Nang, Vietnam, and preparatory meetings at the ministerial level, including the meeting in May 2017 of the APEC Ministers Responsible for Trade, provide important opportunities to demonstrate to the world the commitment of the United States to increasing prosperity and security in the Asia-Pacific region: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that— (1) the continuing success of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (in this resolution referred to as “APEC”) is in the national economic interest of the United States; (2) APEC should be a part of the diplomatic and economic strategy of the United States for the Asia-Pacific region; and (3) the United States should continue to engage APEC in promoting economic growth through the adoption of rules-based policies to strengthen trade and investment between the United States and other APEC members.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding President Trump's recent meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and a reported memo outlining conversations between former FBI Director James Comey and the President. "We need to hear directly from the White House and James Comey on the events of the past week," said Rep Reichert. "Both the alleged intelligence sharing and reported memo outlining a conversation about the investigation of Michael Flynn have created serious concerns in Congress and across the country. We must be given all of the facts surrounding each incident in order to understand exactly what occurred and get the answers we need."
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements after the Committee’s bipartisan meeting with United States Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. “Today was an opportunity to congratulate Ambassador Lighthizer on becoming the United States Trade Representative and begin discussing important trade priorities, including updating NAFTA,” said Chairman Reichert. "NAFTA has benefited communities across the country and we must have a seamless transition to a modernized agreement. With 96 percent of the world’s consumers living outside of our borders, there is tremendous opportunity for our farmers, workers, and entrepreneurs to compete and win on the world stage if we break down trade barriers and help create the environment for them to do so. I look forward to building on the progress we made today and working toward our shared goals of engaging in high-quality trade agreements that grow jobs here at home.” “We appreciated the opportunity to speak with Ambassador Lighthizer and Secretary Ross today about the path forward on trade agreements that will expand markets, reduce barriers, and help American workers. We were pleased to hear the Ambassador’s recognition that NAFTA has been successful in so many ways and to obtain his commitment to modernize and upgrade NAFTA in a manner that retains current benefits in a seamless way that does not disrupt the current agreement. We specifically encouraged the Administration to modernize our existing trade agreements, including NAFTA, to ensure that they open markets for American manufactured goods, agricultural products, and services. Ways and Means members look forward to working with the Trump Administration in the weeks and months ahead as we strengthen our trade agreements,” said Chairman Brady.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), former King County Sheriff, held a Special Order on the floor of the U.S. House in recognition of Peace Officers Memorial Day and National Police Week. He was joined by his House colleagues Reps. Doug Collins (IL), Trey Gowdy (SC), Ted Poe (TX), Drew Ferguson IV (GA), Scott DesJarlais (TN), David Kustoff (TN), Val Demings (FL), John Rutherford (FL), Susan Brooks (IN), Tom O’Halleran (IL), and Bob Goodlatte (VA). Each year, between 25,000 and 40,000 families, colleagues, and friends of law enforcement officers who were killed in the line of duty travel to Washington, DC to pay tribute as their loved one’s name is added to the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. This year, 394 names were added, 143 of those are the names of officers who paid the ultimate sacrifice in service to their communities last year. In his remarks, Rep. Reichert honored Tacoma police officer Reginald “Jake” Gutierrez, who was shot and killed in the line of duty while responding to a domestic dispute call late last year. To watch a video of Rep. Reichert’s opening remarks on the House floor, click HERE. Over the past 15 weeks leading up to Peace Officers Memorial Day on May 15th, Congressman Reichert has been highlighting good deeds of officers across the country. To see his full #15ReasonforMay15 campaign, click HERE.
05.12.2017	Washington, DC - This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) led a bipartisan group of more than 100 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in urging Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ryan Zinke to reject proposals to open the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Regions to new offshore drilling and oil exploration. “Instead of pursuing policies that could create long-term harm to the Pacific Ocean and Washington’s shorelines as well as many businesses along the coast, we must embrace renewable energy solutions of the future," said Rep. Reichert. "I hope the Administration chooses to support the many innovative minds across Washington State and the country as we move toward developing efficient and cost effective alternative renewable energy technologies.” Secretary Zinke is currently examining the United States offshore oil and gas leasing program pursuant to the terms of an executive order signed by President Trump on April 28. The executive order directed the Department of the Interior to review and potentially re-start the oil and gas lease sale planning process—possibly including the Atlantic or Pacific oceans. Thanks to years of effort and input from coastal Members of Congress, state and local governments, coastal businesses, and concerned citizens, the Atlantic and Pacific coasts has been protected from new offshore drilling and exploration in the current 2017-2022 leasing program. The letter--signed by over 100 Members of Congress--is co-led by Congressmen Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and Mark Sanford (R-SC), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Don Beyer (D-VA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA). Read the letter, HERE.
05.11.2017	Washington, DC –Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, today released the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Robert Lighthizer as United States Trade Representative (USTR): “Congratulations to Ambassador Lighthizer on his confirmation. His expertise and dedication will serve him well at USTR. I look forward to working with him and the rest of the Administration on a trade agenda focused on expanding opportunities for American workers, families, and businesses.”
05.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Reichert (R-WA) announced Jesse Daniel Greening "JD" will be serving as a House Wounded Warrior Program fellow in the Congressman’s Issaquah, Washington office. As a participant of the program, JD will work in the office for two years. “I could not be more excited to welcome JD to our team,” said Rep. Reichert. “JD’s passion to serve his country has been expressed through his distinguished time in the U.S. Navy and now the constituents of Washington’s Eighth District are fortunate he’s decided to bring his commitment to serving others to our office. The Wounded Warrior Program not only gives back to those who have served and sacrificed for our country, but creates an invaluable opportunity for congressional offices and constituents to connect with former members of the military.” “The Wounded Warrior Program is excited to welcome Mr. JD Greening as a Fellow,” said Mac Tolar Director, U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Program. “We are extremely confident that he will continue to provide exemplary service to the office of Congressman Reichert and his constituents.” "I'm very thrilled to have been selected to be a part of Congressman Reichert's team through the Military Congressional Fellowship,” said JD. “As someone who aspires to serve Washington one day as a State Senator or Representative, this is such a great opportunity for me to learn what it truly means to serve the people. The fact I get to serve the Eighth Congressional District where I was born and raised makes me even more excited as well as being very grateful to be able to work with and help my fellow veterans within the district." Congressman Reichert’s office was one of the first three offices selected to have a fellow when the program began in 2009. Zack Guill, an Army veteran, was the first fellow to be hired as full time staff after the two-year program. Zack still works in the Congressman’s Issaquah office, helping veterans with their issues in the federal government. More About JD: JD grew up in Wenatchee, Washington where his family still resides. He joined the U.S. Navy right after high school and served from 2008 to 2012 and was stationed onboard the aircraft carrier the USS Abraham Lincoln which operated in the Persian Gulf. During his enlistment he was awarded the Enlisted Surface Warfare Insignia, Enlisted Air Warfare Insignia, Navy Good Conduct Medal and the Navy Battle "E". As well as various marksmanship medals.
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement regarding the upcoming vote on the American Health Care Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. "Over the past several years, I have been committed to fixing our current health care system to increase choice, reduce costs on Americans, and allow families to access the care they need. I have also remained committed to protecting the most vulnerable in our communities, including children on Medicaid, people with preexisting conditions, and older Americans. These have been and continue to be my priorities for health care reform. Unfortunately, the current House bill falls short and does not provide the essential protections I need to support it. With all of the political banter surrounding this bill, it can be difficult to remember that this decision ultimately comes down to people. We need to know our loved ones can get and afford the care they need, regardless of age, income, or health status. And we need to know that changes made by our government, even to a failing system, will not leave our friends, families, and neighbors worse off. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fix what is failing and make our current system work better for American families."
05.02.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Reichert (R-WA), a former chairman and senior member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Tax Policy, issued the following statement after Committee Republicans concluded a two-day policy retreat focused on tax reform for American families and communities: “Our tax code must be designed to benefit American families, small business owners, and workers in Washington State and across our country,” said Rep. Reichert. “The Committee’s working retreat focused on creating a simpler, fairer, pro-growth tax plan that works for the American people and will make us more competitive internationally. I am proud of the progress we made over these past two days and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the Administration on tax solutions that will better the lives of hardworking Americans.”
04.28.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Susan Brooks (R-IN), Val Demings (D-FL), Doug Collins (R-GA), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced H.R. 2228, the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017, which would help agencies create or improve mental health services for law enforcement officers. The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the Department of Justice, Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop resources to equip local law enforcement agencies to address mental health challenges faced by officers. The bill would also make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs, develop training for mental health providers specific to law enforcement mental health needs, and support law enforcement officers by studying the effectiveness of crisis hotlines and annual mental health checks. “The traumas faced by members of law enforcement do not leave them when they go home at the end of the day,” said Reichert. “During my time in the King County Sheriff’s Office I lost dear friends and witnessed tragedies that are forever seared into my memory. Just like our military members who protect us abroad, our law enforcement officers who protect us here at home need and deserve access to critical mental health and wellness services. I am proud to support a bipartisan bill that gathers information that will help us provide much needed mental health care to those who sacrifice so much on our behalf.” “Members of our law enforcement put themselves in harm’s way to protect our communities every day,” said Brooks. “Our officers deal with the unthinkable and daily face situations that can be hard to process and impossible to forget. They need the training and resources to protect their own emotional and mental wellbeing in these situations. This bill provides law enforcement officers with the skills to handle the stress and anxiety associated with their job as well as the resources to address serious mental health challenges that may arise like depression and PTSD. I am proud to support our law enforcement agencies, mental health providers and most importantly, our men and women in blue.” "Our law enforcement officers are called to some of the most horrific situations and step into harm's way to protect of us every day," said Demings. "As Chief of Police, I made it a priority to talk to my police officers, to understand and know what they were dealing with on the streets. We should do what we can to take care of them, so they are always prepared to take care of us." "Every hour, the brave men and women of our law enforcement community enter into stressful, dangerous situations on behalf of their neighbors,” said Collins. “Like our service members, police officers deserve an array of support to meet their unique wellness needs. As the son of a Georgia State Trooper, I’m encouraged that, through the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act, collaboration among the Departments of Justice, Defense, and Veterans Affairs will help our law enforcement communities better serve the officers who protect us every day." “The brave men and women in law enforcement put themselves in difficult, dangerous, and sometimes life-threatening situations every day” said Pascrell. “While I have fought for new physical equipment and advanced technology to protect them when on duty, we must ensure law enforcement has the resources, support and training to address mental health issues as well. That is why I am proud to be an original sponsor of this bipartisan effort to bolster the connections between local mental health professionals and law enforcement as a way to educate officers and supervisors about the importance of mental health issues.” This legislation is supported by Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the National Association of Police Officers (NAPO), the Major County Sheriffs of America (MCSA), the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the National District Attorneys Association (NDAA), and the Sergeants Benevolent Association. "Our officers wear protective clothing and other equipment to keep themselves safe from physical harm, but these officers also face challenges to their mental health and well-being. Unlike many other professions, sometimes you can't leave the job at the office,” said Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police. The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 is the companion bill to S.876, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and Todd Young (R-IN) earlier this month. Additional original co-sponsors of S. 876 include Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), and Chris Coons (D-DE).
04.28.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Trump's executive order directing the Department of the Interior (DOI) to take a new look at where offshore drilling should be occurring and to start a new five-year planning process for offshore leasing. Rep. Reichert is currently leading a bi-partisan letter to the President asking him to reject proposals to open the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Regions to new offshore drilling and exploration. “I am concerned today’s executive order could open the Pacific Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to new oil and gas drilling and exploration,” said Rep. Reichert. “This moves America in the wrong direction and could lead to policies that create long-lasting harm to the Pacific Ocean and Washington’s shorelines. America is home to many bright and innovative minds that are developing efficient and cost effective alternative energy technologies. We must pursue an energy plan that embraces these energy solutions of the future. I will watch for the results of the new plan issued under today’s order and reject proposals to open the Pacific coast to new drilling.”
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Trump's tax reform announcement: “Mothers and fathers, business owners, and hard-working Americans across Washington and the U.S. deserve a simpler tax system that lets them keep more of their hard-earned money," said Rep. Reichert. "Families shouldn’t be forced to hire a professional to help them wade through our messy, complex tax code. We should be able to file our taxes in minutes, not days, and on one form you don’t need a law degree or CPA license to understand. I am glad President Trump is committed to working with Congress to achieve this for the American people and to put our country on a pro-growth track that allows us to compete internationally and create more jobs here at home. We have been hard at work in the Ways and Means Committee to create a tax code that better serves the American people, and I look forward to continuing that work with the Administration and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.”
04.25.2017	Congressman Dave Reichert's staff will be holding office hours at his mobile Ellensburg office every first Wednesday of the month beginning May 3rd through October. Appointments will be available on July 12th instead of July 5th due to the Fourth of July holiday. To schedule an appointment, please call 509-885-6615. Ellensburg Mobile Office Location: BoCC Conference Room Kittitas County Courthouse 205 W 5th Street, Room 108 Ellensburg, WA 98926 Dates: May 3rd June 7th July 12th August 2nd Sept 6th Oct 4th Time: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.
04.20.2017	In the recent months, I have heard from a number of my constituents about President Trump’s tax returns. Some believe Congress should focus on other, more pressing issues while others are demanding we forcibly release the President’s returns. I strongly encourage President Trump to release his tax returns. I said so during his presidential campaign and still believe he should. But, in America all citizens' tax returns are protected by law, just as our homes are protected from unwarranted searches and seizures. The law clearly states tax returns shall be confidential (26 U.S.C. 6103) and campaign traditions do not supersede those rights. Not following the law sets a bad precedent that could threaten the privacy of all American taxpayers. I opposed efforts in Congress to forcibly release the President’s returns because it would require an abuse of the authority given to the Ways and Means Committee. The powerful oversight tools given to the Committee should only be used to ensure that our tax code is being properly administered by the IRS – not to go on fishing expeditions for political purposes. If Congress begins to use its powers to rummage around in the tax returns of the President, what prevents Congress from doing the same to average Americans? The Ways and Means Committee has never been in the business of targeting the tax returns of single individuals – and we are not about to start now. As a former member of law enforcement, a Member of Congress, and American citizen, I am committed to protecting the privacy rights of the American people and abiding by and enforcing the law. Those principles will always come before political expediency.
04.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Promotion and Expansion of Private Employee Ownership Act, which encourages the creation of employee-owned businesses through S Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plans (S ESOPs). “Employee-ownership rewards hard-working Americans for committing themselves to the success of the company they work for, creating jobs and growing the economy along the way,” said Rep. Reichert. “Our bill encourages this pride in ownership and gives employees the power to retire on their own terms. American workers deserve to have confidence in their financial security from their prime working years through their retirement.” “By making it easier for companies to become employee-owned, this legislation will grow the number of employee owned businesses and provide retirement security to more Americans,” said Rep. Kind. “Employee-owned companies perform better – not just for themselves but for their employees as well. I look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen opportunities for employee-ownership and unleash their potential to enable more Americans to save for retirement.” The Promotion and Expansion of Private Employee Ownership Act includes provisions to encourage owners of S Corporations to sell their stock to an ESOP, expand financing opportunities for S Corporation ESOPs, provide technical assistance for companies that may be interested in forming an S Corporation ESOP, and ensure that small businesses that become ESOPs retain their Small Business Association certification. Reps. Reichert and Kind are supported in their efforts by original cosponsors Reps. Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Richard Neal (D-MA), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ).
04.11.2017	Washington, DC –Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) led a bipartisan group of 166 members of the House in sending a letter urging funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Ready to Learn program, and the public television interconnection system, which is an essential public safety tool. The letter was sent on April 6 to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee. “These federal investments are critical to public media’s mission to provide unique services in the areas of education, public safety, and civic leadership to all Americans,” the Members wrote. “These services have helped more than three generations of Americans learn to read, improved the math and literacy skills of high-need children, deepened American’s connections to their communities and the world, and successfully brought in-depth, local news, information and cultural programming to communities large and small as well as parts of America that are underserved or otherwise unprofitable for traditional media to reach.” The letter is included below: Dear Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro: Thank you for your steadfast support of our local public broadcasting stations. Under your bipartisan leadership, Congress has for many years consistently provided resources to support local public broadcast stations through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Ready To Learn grant program, and the replacement of public media’s interconnection system. As you begin to craft the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill, we urge you to continue this legacy and strongly support the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), the Ready To Learn program, and public broadcasting interconnection in FY 2018. These federal investments are critical to public media’s mission to provide unique services in the areas of education, public safety, and civic leadership to all Americans. These services have helped more than three generations of Americans learn to read, improved the math and literacy skills of high-need children, deepened American’s connections to their communities and the world, and successfully brought in-depth, local news, information and cultural programming to communities large and small as well as parts of America that are underserved or otherwise unprofitable for traditional media to reach. Leveraging Value The relatively small federal investment in public broadcasting is leveraged for even greater impact. Approximately 70 percent of funds appropriated to CPB go directly to the more than 1,500 public television and radio stations across the country, supporting approximately 20,000 local jobs, and representing the only locally licensed, controlled, and directed media in America. Every federal dollar invested in public broadcasting is seed money that is leveraged by local stations to raise six additional dollars on their own from the communities they serve. Education Public media is committed to education and service to all Americans. Thanks to public broadcasting, Americans at all income levels and from all parts of the country—rural or urban—have access to consistent, high-quality content for free. This innovative and educational programming is readily available to children, parents, teachers, senior citizens, those pursuing their general education degree, and many others. Public broadcasting is making especially significant contributions to children’s education through the Ready To Learn program. More than 100 studies during the last several Ready To Learn competitive grant rounds have proven that this program’s research-based content builds and improves the early literacy and math skills for high-need children, ages two to eight. From June 2015 through May 2016, 19.1 million children viewed Ready to Learn television content, and in calendar year 2016 there were 12.3 million page views to all Ready To Learn web games. For the 54% of American children who don’t have the means or opportunity to attend preschool, Ready To Learn content provides an essential “school readiness” experience. Public Safety Public safety is an often overlooked mission that public broadcasters have embraced with growing impact. In times of national emergency, and as active participants in the presidential alerting system, the combined strength of local public radio and television broadcast signals can reach 98% of the American population. Public television stations provide critical redundancy through the Warning, Alert, and Response Network (WARN), which sends geo-targeted Wireless Emergency Alert messages from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to cellular carriers. Many stations are also effective partners with state and local public safety, law enforcement, and first responder organizations—connecting these agencies with one another, with the public, and with vital datacasting capabilities that use the broadcast spectrum to help first responders securely send critical information and video during times of crisis. Several recent datacasting pilots conducted by the Department of Homeland Security in conjunction with public television stations have demonstrated the ability of this technology to help address the communications challenges facing the public safety community. Civic Leadership Our public broadcasting system is a unique American institution that provides civic leadership, strengthens our local communities, and enables our constituents to have free, locally produced and focused programming as well as in-depth reporting. Public broadcasters have retained the trust of the American people in the comprehensive, transparent, objective, and civil coverage of news and public affairs, serving as essential resources for a well-informed citizenry. Public broadcasting stations are an indispensable source of information about the nation and the world, drawing on skilled journalists, documentarians, historians and local and national experts in a range of fields. Whether it’s a state high school athletic tournament, public access to sessions of a state legislature, diverse reporting from neighborhoods in every American community, or debate coverage of a local election, public broadcasting keeps America’s communities informed. In rural areas, where public broadcasting stations can be the only source of free, high-quality local programming available to families, funding from CPB can amount to more than half of some rural stations’ budgets. This is a gap that cannot be closed by increased underwriting revenue or donor support. Interconnection All of these services depend on public broadcasting’s interconnection – the technological infrastructure and supporting operations that provide every local public media station across the country with access to programming from national, regional, and independent content providers. Public broadcasting’s public safety work also relies on interconnection as the failsafe for presidential alerts and warnings and ensures that cellular customers can receive geo-targeted emergency alerts and warnings. The current interconnection infrastructure for public broadcasting stations must be replaced as a result of aging technology and expiring long-term satellite leases. This multi-year project represents an essential element of public broadcasting’s continued public media service to every corner of America. Thank you for your recognition of this important project and for the year one funding that was provided in FY 2016 and proposed for continuation in the FY 2017 Committee bill. Continued funding is needed in FY 2018 to proceed with the critical work that is now underway. We urge you to continue your support for our nation’s public broadcasting system by providing sufficient resources for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting’s two-year advance, the Ready To Learn grant program and the public broadcasting interconnection system in the FY 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration and attention to this request. Sincerely,
04.11.2017	Washington, D.C.- Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Tom Reed (R-NY) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced H.R. 2060, the Improving Employment Outcomes for Foster Youth Act, which provides federal tax incentives to private sector employers who hire youth transitioning from the foster care system to independence. The Improving Employment Outcomes for Foster Youth Act will make transition age foster youth categorically eligible for the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC), an existing federal credit that provides incentives to businesses to hire employees from certain populations with specific employment challenges. In doing so, this bill will help encourage employers to hire and invest in our nation’s foster youth, starting them on a successful career path. “We cannot eliminate all of the challenges faced by youth in foster care, but we can give them opportunities to help overcome those challenges,” said Rep. Reichert. “Helping youth find jobs and rewarding them when they do is a great way to help them become independent and give them hope for the future. Like all of our children, our youth in foster care deserve to have the opportunity to follow their dreams, and our bill gives them the independence to do just that.” "The time of transition from foster care to independence is one of the most difficult and challenging and a job is a critical piece of making that leap: a place for building self respect and self confidence, a structure to learn to function as a part of a team, and an important opportunity to begin to expand their social network," said Rep. Davis. "Easing some of the barriers to the world of work may be one of the most effective means of empowering our foster youth to make that transformation successfully."
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Pete Olson (R-TX), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) and Ron Kind (D-WI) re-introduced H.R. 1904, the Medicare Access to Radiology Care Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation would allow for Medicare coverage of qualified Radiologist Assistant (RA) services. “Seniors rely on radiology services. They are indispensable when detecting diseases or abnormalities within the body,” Rep. Dave Reichert said. “With growing doctor shortages, highly trained radiology assistants have played an important role in making sure our seniors get this critical care. We must make sure these potentially life-saving services performed by Radiology Assistants are covered by Medicare. It is what makes sense and it is what is right.” “This common sense, bipartisan bill will provide America’s seniors with more efficient healthcare, while saving jobs and money,” Rep. Pete Olson said. “This bill fills critical gaps in doctor shortages by utilizing Radiologist Assistants. This measure will improve the quality of care and ensure timely access to diagnostic and interventional imaging procedures. I’m pleased to join my colleagues in reintroducing this bill and look forward to seeing it become law.” “Most Americans are deeply concerned about the skyrocketing cost of healthcare,” Rep. Mike Doyle observed. “A number of us in Congress are looking for ways to reduce health care costs while maintaining- or even improving- the quality of care provided. This bipartisan bill would improve patient access to care and ensure that radiology and radiology assistants, working together, provide the highest-quality, most-effective medical imaging possible for Medicare beneficiaries.” “Anything that improves care and strengthens our health care workforce is a no-brainer,” Rep. Bill Pascrell said. “I am proud to re-introduce this bill so that highly qualified health care professionals, including those from Radiologist Assistant programs like the one at Rutgers School of Health Related Professions in New Jersey, are recognized for the integral part they play on the radiology team. Ensuring that Medicare pays Radiologist Assistants for the services they provide is one more step in solidifying care.” “In addition to finding ways to lower health care costs for Wisconsinites, we need to work on ways to make our health care system more efficient. With shortages of qualified health professionals in rural areas, allowing Radiology Assistants to be covered under Medicare is a win-win, our seniors get access to affordable services and it is more efficient and cost-effective for the health care system,” Rep. Ron Kind said. Background: The Medicare Access to Radiology Care Act of 2017 would recognize RA’s as a non-physician Medicare provider and allows Medicare coverage for their services.
04.06.2017	Issaquah, WA – Tonight, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the U.S. military strikes in Syria: “Syria’s use of chemical weapons was a horrendous attack on innocent men, women, and children that the United States cannot stand for. It is long past time we held the Assad regime accountable for crossing the red line established by President Obama. Assad and his allies need to know the U.S. will no longer stand idle while atrocities are carried out against innocent people."
04.04.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), and Denny Heck (WA-10) called on President Trump to not eliminate investments in iconic bodies of water. In a letter to the President signed by 33 other members, they urged the President to reconsider his budget proposal that would completely eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency’s Geographic Programs that provide cleanup funding for Puget Sound, the Great Lakes, Chesapeake Bay, and other major bodies of water. “The health of the Puget Sound is critical to Washington’s economy and local jobs, the safety of the food we eat, and the countless species that call the Sound home,” said Reichert. “The cleanup and rehabilitation efforts funded by the EPA’s Geographic Program, such as salmon recovery efforts, have proven to be well worth the investment. Eliminating this funding would have a ripple effect across the state and impact the marine and seafood industry across the country. I urge the Administration to reconsider and recognize that protecting our environment is not just the right thing to do, but it is economically wise.” “Puget Sound is an iconic body of water that is vital to our economy and to who we are as Washingtonians,” said Kilmer. “Clean water and good jobs are important to our region. We can’t have them without a healthy Sound. This proposal would be devastating to local efforts to restore shellfish beds, revitalize salmon runs, and recover Puget Sound for future generations can enjoy its waters. The federal government should be a partner in this effort and that’s why we are calling on the President to not abandon our Puget Sound.” “Washingtonians have spoken loud and clear—we need the EPA’s help to save our Sound,” said Heck. “This funding is the foundation of our efforts to restore Puget Sound, helping our state, cities, and tribes clean up our waters and shorelines. In order to protect the thousands of jobs that depend on a healthy Puget Sound, as well as iconic Pacific Northwest species like the orca and salmon, the President must restore this funding.” Clean water in Puget Sound is essential to support 3,200 shellfish jobs that generate $184 million in revenue each year. 80 percent of statewide tourism and recreational dollars are tied to Puget Sound. The state’s marine industry – which includes fishing fleets, ports, and seafood processors – generates $30 billion annually. The Puget Sound Geographic program provides grants to state, local, and tribal governments to implement projects to improve water quality, enhance fish passage, increase salmon habitat, and protect shorelines. Every EPA dollar spent on Puget Sound recovery efforts has leveraged more than $24 in matching funds from other federal agencies and local partners, including the state, tribes, and non-profits. Full text of the letter follows. Dear Mr. President, We write to express our strong and unified support for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Geographic Programs, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), Puget Sound, Chesapeake Bay Program, Long Island Sound, Gulf of Mexico, and others. The lakes, estuaries, and shorelines protected by these programs are truly national treasures. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Puget Sound and the Chesapeake Bay watersheds are the Nation’s two largest estuaries, encompassing more than 48 million acres of rivers, bays, beaches and shorelines that support some of the Nation’s most valuable fisheries. These iconic bodies of water are also crucial economic drivers that support millions of jobs and billions of dollars in economic impact across the country. In Washington State, the marine industry – which includes fishing fleets, ports, and seafood processors – generates $30 billion annually, and is directly tied to the health of the Puget Sound. Likewise, more than 1.5 million jobs and $62 billion in wages are directly tied to the Great Lakes. Collectively, the EPA’s Geographic Program funds have been used by state, local, and tribal governments to implement thousands of on-the-ground projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitats, enhance fish and shellfish populations, and combat invasive species. Although every region has shown significant improvement as the result of these investments, there is still a great deal of work to do. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. Similarly, in 2015 the Puget Sound experienced the largest toxic algae bloom ever recorded off the West Coast which closed shellfish and crab fisheries throughout the region. Likewise, the annual “dead zone” in the Chesapeake Bay, the result of algal blooms feeding off nutrient pollution, causes significant stress to the Bay’s ecosystem and strains the populations of commercial species such as the iconic blue crab. The economic impacts from these algal blooms reverberate throughout these regions. Grants from the EPA’s geographic programs have been critical to funding research and monitoring efforts to improve predictions of these blooms, but it is clear that much more work remains in order to protect the health of our citizens and our local economies. Similarly, in South Florida, the EPA’s geographic program funds have been critical to supporting efforts to monitor and reduce the impact of point- and nonpoint-source pollution on the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. These efforts are key to protecting indigenous populations of corals, shellfish, fish and wildlife, and recreational activities which are all critical economic drivers for the region. We know that you are strongly in favor of growing the economy, protecting clean water, and creating jobs. The federal funding provided through the Geographic Programs does just that. A peer-reviewed study of the Chesapeake cleanup plan demonstrated that the Chesapeake provides benefits of more than $107 billion annually to the region, which will grow by more than $22 billion annually once the cleanup plan is complete. Likewise, the GLRI has accomplished four times more clean-up and restoration work in the last six years than was undertaken over the previous 22 years. This progress has helped rejuvenate the hunting, fishing, and birding opportunities which support 217,000 tourism and recreation jobs throughout the region. Furthermore, in Washington State alone, every EPA dollar spent on Puget Sound recovery efforts has leveraged more than $24 in matching funds from other federal agencies and local partners, including the state, tribes, and non-profits. That’s an enormous return on investment. Given the sweeping economic impacts of the Geographic Programs, we ask that you continue to include robust support for these programs in your Fiscal Year 2018 budget request and beyond. The health of our communities and the strength of our economies depend on it. Sincerely,
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statements on President Trump’s Executive Orders relating to trade enforcement and the trade deficit: Chairman Reichert said: "While we must do more to eliminate foreign barriers to trade that shortchange our companies and workers when they try to sell abroad, I firmly believe that our nation’s farmers, workers, consumers, and business owners have benefited tremendously from engaging in trade with countries across the globe. In my home state of Washington, we can see the benefit of trade in our jobs numbers and feel it in our pocketbooks. We are leaders in the agriculture, software, and aerospace industries, and 40 percent of our jobs are connected to trade. With 96 percent of the world’s consumers living outside our borders, there is great potential to create new opportunities for American businesses and grow good-paying jobs here at home. I will continue to work with the Administration on the trade agenda and this report." Chairman Brady said: “I welcome the President’s Executive Order on Customs bonding procedures, which operationalizes the new tools Congress put in place in the Customs enforcement bill that we enacted last year. The President’s action will strengthen our ability to hold accountable those cheaters who evade our trade laws and engage in unfair trade practices. His strong leadership on this issue will help level the playing field for American workers. “I also agree that U.S. exporters of all sizes continue to face enormous trade barriers as they sell American goods and services around the world. While it is important to examine the causes of our trade deficits, we know that there are many causes that have nothing to do with trade agreements - including the status of the U.S. dollar as the world’s reserve currency and the widespread use of the U.S. dollar internationally. In fact, our trade agreements have been successful in making it easier to sell ‘Made in America’ products and services, lowering and even eliminating our trade deficits in manufacturing and services, and frequently resulting in a trade surplus. “I look forward to working with President Trump and his Administration to rigorously enforce and strengthen our current trade agreements. We must also negotiate new, bold, and enforceable agreements that will eliminate barriers to our products and services so that Americans can compete and win in markets throughout the world.”
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced a bill to designate Washington state’s Mountains to Sound Greenway—1.5 million acres of land stretching along the Interstate 90 corridor from Seattle to Ellensburg—as a National Heritage Area to help preserve and promote its scenery, resources and history for future generations. U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate. “Washington’s natural beauty attracts visitors from across the country and globe who want to experience our mountains, rivers, lakes, and forests,” Rep. Reichert said. “Living with these natural treasures in our backyard has not only taught us the importance of conservation, but have shown us being stewards of the land can also grow our local economy. With an already strong outdoor recreation and tourism industry, protecting the Mountains to Sound Greenway promises to create more jobs in our region, while preserving these valuable sites and landmarks for future generations to enjoy. I have been proud to work with a bipartisan group of Washington colleagues in both the Senate and the House on this initiative that benefits constituents across district and party lines.” “The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area designation is critical to achieving a sustainable relationship between Washington state residents and nature in the Puget Sound Region,” Rep. Adam Smith said. “The diverse coalition of organizations, local Tribes, community members, as well as bicameral and bipartisan Congressional leaders supporting this effort, speaks to the value our community places on protecting our environment for generations to come.The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act would recognize a scenic byway and historic transportation corridor through 2,400 square miles that includes the Cascade peaks, wilderness lakes and forests, as well as a network of roads, rails and trails. It includes farms and forests, historic sites, lakes, campgrounds, rivers and wildlife habitat. The area is home to 1.4 million residents in 28 cities and 1,600 miles of trails." The Mountains to Sound National Heritage Area could become the first such designation in the Pacific Northwest. Congress has designated 49 National Heritage Areas nationwide to promote local economic growth and tourism, and to preserve sites and landmarks with cultural and historical significance. “The recreation economy is one of the largest job creators. Protecting special places like the Mountains to Sound Greenway would help boost tourism to some of Washington state’s most scenic and historic landscapes,” Sen. Cantwell said. “I am proud to work with Sen. Murray, Reps. Reichert and Smith, and the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust to establish this National Heritage Area and build on nearly two decades of efforts to preserve our state’s natural landscape for future generations.” “No matter what the political climate, it’s so important we continue to push to preserve our most precious natural spaces – and I’m proud to continue this fight to protect the Mountains to Sound Greenway,” Sen. Murray said. “Outdoor recreation is a key part of Washington state’s economy, and this designation will draw even more tourists to appreciate our unique natural resources, and support local economic development from Ellensburg to Seattle and every community in between.” National Heritage Areas are Congressional-designated partnerships between the National Park Service, states and local communities through which the Park Service supports local and state efforts to preserve natural resources and promote tourism. National Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System. No federal regulations are imposed, and no private land is affected or acquired. Since 1991, the nonprofit Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust has worked to preserve the area’s scenic landscapes for recreation, education and conservation. More than 900,000 acres of land now are publicly-owned, including parks and forests such as Tiger Mountain, Snoqualmie Pass and Mount Si. Heritage Area designations are eligible for federal grants and can help draw financial contributions from state, local and private sources. A recent economic impact study indicates National Heritage Areas contribute $12.9 billion annually to the national economy and support 148,000 jobs, according to the Park Service. On average, Heritage Areas generate about $263 million in economic activity and support about 3,000 jobs, primarily through tourism and visitor spending. Other National Heritage Areas nationwide include: the Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area in Springfield, Illinois; the Tennessee Civil War National Heritage Area in Murfreesboro, Tennessee and the Baltimore National Heritage Area in Baltimore, Maryland. Heritage Area designations also help coordinate marketing and tourism promotion, such as developing websites, putting up highway signs to advertise sites, sponsoring festivals, and publishing brochures and tour maps. Heritage Areas also can help with assisting in the operation of museums and visitor centers.
03.27.2017	Over the past few months I have heard from over ten thousand constituents, democrats, republicans and independents, from across the Eighth District on the current state of the American healthcare system. I have been touched by the heartfelt stories and encouraged by the desire to give Americans the health care they deserve. So, where do we go from here? While I continue to believe that the ACA is failing us, last week I expressed many concerns to my colleagues about the American Health Care Act and I was in agreement with leadership to withdraw the bill from consideration. Congress can do better. We must do better, and we will do better. We have the opportunity to work together to create a healthcare system that gives the American people more freedom to choose while simultaneously protecting the most vulnerable among us. This has always been my goal and I will continue to work until it is achieved
03.27.2017	Washington, DC – Recently, Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-R) and Ron Kind (WI-D) introduced H.R. 1696, the S Corporation Modernization Act. This bill removes barriers and updates rules for the 4.5 million S corporations across the nation, allowing small businesses to better attract capital enabling growth and the hiring of new workers. “With more than 95,000 S corporations in Washington State, the large majority being small businesses, it is absolutely critical we create an environment for these businesses to grow,” said Reichert. “This bill helps us do just that by modernizing the rules to support these proven job creators in their mission to grow, compete, and get Americans back to work. I am proud to work with my friend, Ron Kind, on this common-sense bill.” “With nearly 60,000 S Corporations in Wisconsin, supporting these job creators is a key priority of mine as I work to strengthen the economy in Wisconsin and create jobs,” said Rep. Kind. “This bipartisan bill will bring stability, simplicity and fairness to the tax code and enable S Corporations to continue to provide good jobs and help sustain local communities.” “The S corporation is the best vehicle for private enterprise ever invented, and the S Corporation Modernization bill helps to ensure it stays that way,” said President of the S Corporation Association, Brian Reardon. “We really appreciate the commitment Reps Reichert and Kind bring to Main Street business issues, and we look forward to seeing these provisions enacted into law this Congress.” Specifically, H.R. 1696 would make needed changes to keep S corporations competitive, and ensure the continued success of America’s predominant private business model by: Increasing the ability of S corporations to attract capital; Modernizing the rules that apply to firms that have selected S corporation status; and ·Encouraging charitable giving by S corporations These reforms would improve the ability of S corporations to respond to the current business environment and remove impediments that prevent them from competing on a level playing field at home in the United States.
03.20.2017	Washington, DC – Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) will lead a bipartisan group of members in sending a letter urging funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), the Ready to Learn (RTL) program, and the public television interconnection system, an essential public safety tool. “For nearly 50 years, public broadcasting has served as a reliable source for public safety announcements, objective news, and critical educational programs for our children,” said Reichert. “Underserved families living in rural areas have especially benefited from initiatives like the research-based Ready to Learn program, which has improved early literacy and math skills for high-need children. These largely locally run stations and programs are invaluable to maintaining a well-informed public and must be preserved.” “Public broadcasting is the most trusted name in news. Not only that, it provides vital educational and emergency services. These services are especially critical for rural and small communities, which don’t have an alternative and rely on federal funding,” said Blumenauer. “As we celebrate 50 years of public broadcasting, Congress should continue this partnership and reflect the overwhelming support of the American people for these important programs.” The letter will be sent on April 6, 2017 to the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee. Reichert and Blumenauer are currently building support for this effort. Last year’s letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 132 members of the House. Included below is this year’s letter. Dear Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro: Thank you for your steadfast support of our local public broadcasting stations. Under your bipartisan leadership, Congress has for many years consistently provided resources to support local public broadcast stations through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Ready To Learn grant program, and the replacement of public media’s interconnection system. As you begin to craft the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill, we urge you to continue this legacy and strongly support the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), the Ready To Learn program, and public broadcasting interconnection in FY 2018. These federal investments are critical to public media’s mission to provide unique services in the areas of education, public safety, and civic leadership to all Americans. These services have helped more than three generations of Americans learn to read, improved the math and literacy skills of high-need children, deepened American’s connections to their communities and the world, and successfully brought in-depth, local news, information and cultural programming to communities large and small as well as parts of America that are underserved or otherwise unprofitable for traditional media to reach. Leveraging Value The relatively small federal investment in public broadcasting is leveraged for even greater impact. Approximately 70 percent of funds appropriated to CPB go directly to the more than 1,500 public television and radio stations across the country, supporting approximately 20,000 local jobs, and representing the only locally licensed, controlled, and directed media in America. Every federal dollar invested in public broadcasting is seed money that is leveraged by local stations to raise six additional dollars on their own from the communities they serve. Education Public media is committed to education and service to all Americans. Thanks to public broadcasting, Americans at all income levels and from all parts of the country—rural or urban—have access to consistent, high-quality content for free. This innovative and educational programming is readily available to children, parents, teachers, senior citizens, those pursuing their general education degree, and many others. Public broadcasting is making especially significant contributions to children’s education through the Ready To Learn program. More than 100 studies during the last several Ready To Learn competitive grant rounds have proven that this program’s research-based content builds and improves the early literacy and math skills for high-need children, ages two to eight. From June 2015 through May 2016, 19.1 million children viewed Ready to Learn television content, and in calendar year 2016 there were 12.3 million page views to all Ready To Learn web games. For the 54% of American children who don’t have the means or opportunity to attend preschool, Ready To Learn content provides an essential “school readiness” experience. Public Safety Public safety is an often overlooked mission that public broadcasters have embraced with growing impact. In times of national emergency, and as active participants in the presidential alerting system, the combined strength of local public radio and television broadcast signals can reach 98% of the American population. Public television stations provide critical redundancy through the Warning, Alert, and Response Network (WARN), which sends geo-targeted Wireless Emergency Alert messages from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to cellular carriers. Many stations are also effective partners with state and local public safety, law enforcement, and first responder organizations—connecting these agencies with one another, with the public, and with vital datacasting capabilities that use the broadcast spectrum to help first responders securely send critical information and video during times of crisis. Several recent datacasting pilots conducted by the Department of Homeland Security in conjunction with public television stations have demonstrated the ability of this technology to help address the communications challenges facing the public safety community. Civic Leadership Our public broadcasting system is a unique American institution that provides civic leadership, strengthens our local communities, and enables our constituents to have free, locally produced and focused programming as well as in-depth reporting. Public broadcasters have retained the trust of the American people in the comprehensive, transparent, objective, and civil coverage of news and public affairs, serving as essential resources for a well-informed citizenry. Public broadcasting stations are an indispensable source of information about the nation and the world, drawing on skilled journalists, documentarians, historians and local and national experts in a range of fields. Whether it’s a state high school athletic tournament, public access to sessions of a state legislature, diverse reporting from neighborhoods in every American community, or debate coverage of a local election, public broadcasting keeps America’s communities informed. In rural areas, where public broadcasting stations can be the only source of free, high-quality local programming available to families, funding from CPB can amount to more than half of some rural stations’ budgets. This is a gap that cannot be closed by increased underwriting revenue or donor support. Interconnection All of these services depend on public broadcasting’s interconnection – the technological infrastructure and supporting operations that provide every local public media station across the country with access to programming from national, regional, and independent content providers. Public broadcasting’s public safety work also relies on interconnection as the failsafe for presidential alerts and warnings and ensures that cellular customers can receive geo-targeted emergency alerts and warnings. The current interconnection infrastructure for public broadcasting stations must be replaced as a result of aging technology and expiring long-term satellite leases. This multi-year project represents an essential element of public broadcasting’s continued public media service to every corner of America. Thank you for your recognition of this important project and for the year one funding that was provided in FY 2016 and proposed for continuation in the FY 2017 Committee bill. Continued funding is needed in FY 2018 to proceed with the critical work that is now underway. We urge you to continue your support for our nation’s public broadcasting system by providing sufficient resources for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting’s two-year advance, the Ready To Learn grant program and the public broadcasting interconnection system in the FY 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration and attention to this request. Sincerely,
03.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, co-chairs of the bipartisan Law Enforcement Caucus, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), a 33-year law enforcement veteran, and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) sent a letter to President Donald Trump requesting the President to illuminate the White House in blue on the night of May 15, 2017 in honor of Peace Officers Memorial Day. Blue lights are traditionally used as a symbol of recognition and appreciation of law enforcement. “This is an important show of support for the more than 21,000 officers who have given their lives while serving their communities,” said Congressman Reichert. “I hope the President will take this opportunity to recognize the difficulties and dangers that officers encounter every day in public service to us all. The men and women who wear the badge understand the dangers of their job, but they heed the call to serve and willingly face those risks every day in order to create safe communities for all Americans. Peace Officers Memorial Day is the perfect time to honor these great sacrifices made by those who wear the uniform.” Requesting the President to illuminate the White House in blue on Peace Officers Memorial Day is part of Congressman Reichert’s #15ReasonsforMay15 campaign, which aims to build awareness leading up to May 15th by highlighting the positive contributions to and sacrifices law enforcement makes on behalf of our communities. Read the full text of the letter below or click HERE. Dear Mr. President: As co-chairs of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, we respectfully request that you illuminate the White House in blue on the night of May 15, 2017 in honor of Peace Officers Memorial Day. This is an important show of support for the law enforcement community. It is also an opportunity to honor the more than 21,000 officers who have given their lives while serving their communities. In 1962, President Kennedy proclaimed May 15th as National Peace Officers Memorial Day and the calendar week in which May 15th falls, as National Police Week. Established by a joint resolution of Congress in 1962, National Police Week pays special recognition to those law enforcement officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty. This year, nearly 400 new names will be inscribed on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, including the 139 officers who were killed in 2016. The total number of names on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial will increase this year to more than 21,000, dating back to the first known officer fatality in 1791. On average, one law enforcement officer is killed in the line of duty somewhere in the United States every 58 hours. A Federal law enacted in 1994 authorizes the American flag to be flown at half-staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day as a richly deserved tribute to our nation’s fallen officers and their families. Illuminating the White House in blue on May 15th of this year would be a fitting complement to this great honor and an important show of support for the men and women who are serving and protecting our great nation. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Dave Reichert (R-WA) Bill Pascrell (D-NJ)
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and a group of Republican lawmakers introduced a resolution calling for American innovation to be used to improve environmental stewardship. The resolution introduced today calls on the House of Representatives to commit to working on economically viable solutions that address the risks of climate change, calling on “American ingenuity, innovation, and exceptionalism,” and citing the “conservative principle to protect, conserve, and be good stewards of our environment.” “We are lucky to live in the world’s most innovative country with the brightest minds,” said Rep. Reichert. “We must use this incredible asset to tackle an issue that impacts all of us regardless of our age, income, or geography. Here in the Pacific Northwest, with Mt. Rainier as our backdrop and the Alpine Lake Wilderness in our backyard, we understand the important role nature plays in our lives and why we must preserve it for future generations. I will continue to work with individuals from all sides of the aisle to improve environmental stewardship and encourage American innovation.” What They’re Saying: David Jenkins, President, Conservatives for Responsible Stewardship “The significance of this Republican climate resolution cannot be overstated. Real conservatives don’t deny reality, they face it. They don’t avoid problems, they tackle them head on. The resolution’s 17 initial cosponsors are stepping up on an issue that grows more urgent every day, and showing the prudent, fact-based—and yes, conservative—leadership our nation needs. We are grateful for this important first step.” Mark Reynolds, Executive Director, Citizens' Climate Lobby “The risks of climate change are far too great to get bogged down in partisan politics. With this resolution, these 17 Republicans are saying that business-as-usual is unacceptable when it comes to preserving a livable world for future generations. Hopefully, their leadership will help us turn the page and move forward on solutions to this critical problem.” Diane Randall, Executive Secretary, Friends Committee on National Legislation (The Quaker lobby in the public interest) “The leadership demonstrated by the 17 co-sponsors of this Republican climate resolution is such a hopeful step forward. This resolution shows that our moral obligation to address climate change and protect vulnerable communities transcends partisanship, and that there truly is political will to address this issue from both political parties in Congress. Now, more than ever, we pray that Congress will quickly pivot the dialogue towards meaningful climate solutions.” Dan Misleh, Executive Director, Catholic Climate Covenant “The Catholic Climate Covenant applauds the moral courage of the 17 Republican legislators who have introduced this resolution. The Catholic Church recognizes the threat that climate change poses to our common home and to human life and dignity – especially of the poor and vulnerable, and of those in future generations. We are heartened that Congress is responding to Pope Francis’s call in his address to Congress and in Laudato Si to “enter into dialogue with all people about our common home” (Laudato Si’, no. 3). We encourage House members take the next step of joining the bipartisan House Climate Solutions Caucus.” The Niskanen Center “The sponsors of the Republican Climate Resolution understand that there is nothing conservative about ignoring the enormous risks of climate change. As conservatives, we believe the government exists to protect property rights and lives. It is clear that climate change will put both at risk for our kids and future generations. It is also clear that we have the means to significantly reduce those risks and leave a prosperous and clean future for posterity. The Niskanen Center applauds these Republicans who are looking to take positive steps forward finding practical and market-based solutions for climate change.” Ken Kimmell, President, Union of Concerned Scientists “I’m heartened to see Republican House members introduce a resolution committing Congress to address climate change and base its policy decisions on science and quantifiable facts. While the resolution doesn’t explicitly make the link to fossil fuel emissions, it shows that these Republican lawmakers are not in a state of denial about this key issue. The U.S. is seeing more extreme weather due to climate change, including flooding, droughts and wildfires, which cost taxpayers billions of dollars in damages. There’s strength in numbers, and I hope that this sizable group of responsible leaders will have an impact on votes in Congress.” Francesco "Frank" Femia and Caitlin Werrell, Co-Founders and Presidents, The Center for Climate and Security “This resolution demonstrates that the security risks of climate change are a reality that partisanship cannot continue to obscure. The Department of Defense and intelligence community have recognized this issue across both Republican and Democratic Administrations, and it's heartening to see Republican policy-makers from all parts of the country acting on that.” Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres (A nonprofit mobilizing business and investor leadership for a sustainable global economy) “Today’s announcement sends a loud and clear message that addressing climate change need not be a partisan issue. We applaud all lawmakers - no matter their party affiliation - who recognize the urgency of tackling climate change and the enormous economic opportunities of accelerating clean energy in all parts of the United States. The cosponsors of this resolution have shown bold leadership, and we look forward to working with them to craft bipartisan climate solutions that Americans want and expect from Washington.” The Rev. Mitch Hescox, President/CEO, The Evangelical Environmental Network (EEN) "We are proud of the courageous leadership of Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-6), and the 14 other Republican co-sponsors of this House Resolution affirming that climate change is a serious problem that must be addressed in order for us to be "good stewards of our environment ...". We heartily concur and stand ready to support efforts to do so”. Heather Reams, Managing Director, Citizens for Responsible Energy Solutions “Addressing climate change through clean energy solutions is smart policy and smart politics. Time and again, CRES polling shows that voters overwhelming support lawmakers who prioritize clean energy to advance the economy, create good paying jobs, promote energy independence, and protect the environment.” Admiral Frank "Skip" Bowman, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program: “I support this Republican Climate Resolution. Putting aside arguments of cause and effect, there are measured and measurable data and global events that must be considered and accounted for in our defense planning.” Rear Admiral David W. Titley, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Oceanographer of the Navy: "I'm very excited to see the Republican Climate Change Resolution introduced to the Congress. Our nation's long-term security is critically dependent on moving away from fossil-based fuels to lessen the worst risks of climate change. This change will not happen without support and leadership from the Congress, in partnership with the Administration. The Republican Climate Change Resolution is a good first step towards a serious bi-partisan policy discussion.” Commander David "Deke" Slayton, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security: "The Republican Climate Resolution ably and well serves as an imperative and call for action for our Nation. The resolution captures the issues of an observable, changing climate and the dynamic events we see unfolding in the worlds oceans today. These critical events demand U.S. Congressional and national executive leadership, now. " Sherri Goodman, Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Deputy Undersecretary of Defense: “The Republican Climate Resolution, whose signers represent a broad cross-section of America affected by climate change, from our coasts to rural agricultural areas, soundly recognizes that climate change is a “threat multiplier” that will adversely affect our national security interests as well as all Americans, where we live and work. The leaders of this effort should be commended for recognizing that we need both to study and address changes in our global and regional climates, and build more resilient communities for America’s future.” Vice Admiral Lee Gunn, U.S. Navy (ret): "I am enthusiastically adding my support for this Republican Climate Resolution (Ms. Stefanik, et al., 'Expressing the commitment of the House of Representatives to conservative environmental stewardship.'). The resolution acknowledges, among other things, the enormous national security importance of stewardship of the environment for America. Our armed services depend on predictable conditions at home for training, maintenance, drills and exercises, and bases, all components of building ready military forces. Also, the demands worldwide on not only our military but our economic, diplomatic and political power, demands on all elements of our national power, will inevitably be greater if the environment becomes less predictable. The Republican Climate Resolution supports not only traditional American values, but the practical imperative of maintaining our security at home and abroad." Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, U.S. Army (ret), former chief of staff to Secretary of State Colin Powell, Visiting Professor of Government and Public Policy, the College of William and Mary: "The Republican Climate Change Resolution being introduced in the Congress--the Gibson Resolution under new leadership--symbolizes my political party's recognition of climate change's impact on national security, an impact already being felt from the shipyards at Hampton Roads to the Ship Channel in Houston, Texas. Congresswoman Elise Stefanik and her 16 Republican co-sponsors are to be congratulated for their herculean efforts to bring my political party to a firm recognition of these risks."
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – This week, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and John B. Larson (D-CT) introduced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2017 (VRIPA), a bipartisan bill that would provide a tax exemption on the benefits volunteer firefighters and emergency medical services (EMS) personnel receive from their communities. “Firefighters and EMS personnel along with members of law enforcement are the individuals who come to our rescue when we are most in need,” said Rep. Reichert. “I know this to be true from my personal experience. Years ago a first responder came to my side and because of their help, I am here today. Like I learned long ago, these men and women are essential to the safety of our loved ones and to the security of our communities. Giving them much needed tax relief is the least we could do for individuals who are willing to run into a burning building or provide life-saving care on our behalf.” “Volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Larson. “These brave men and women should not be taxed on the small tokens of gratitude localities bestow in return for their selfless actions. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will help ease some of the burdens of our volunteer first responders’ experience. It is the least we can do when they already sacrifice so much. I thank Rep. Reichert for being a partner on this legislation for so many years and his continued leadership on this issue."What they're saying: “The IAFC thanks Rep. Dave Reichert for his continued leadership in strengthening volunteer and combination fire departments across the United States," said Chief John Sinclair, International Association of Fire Chiefs president and chairman of the board. “This legislation will ensure that fire departments can continue offering recruitment and retention incentives that ensure fire departments are fully staffed and communities remain protected from fires and other life threatening emergencies.” “On behalf of the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC) I’d like to thank Representatives David Reichert, John Larson and all of the bi-partisan original cosponsors for introducing this important legislation, which will help local emergency response agencies recruit and retain volunteer fire, EMS and rescue personnel," said NVFC chairman, Kevin D. Quinn. "On average a volunteer firefighter in the United States donates services worth more than $18,000 to the community that he or she serves every year. It is common sense to clarify that the nominal incentives that some volunteers receive in recognition of their service should not be taxed by the federal government." “We commend Congressman Reichert and Congressman Larson for introducing this important legislation," said Bill Webb, Executive Director of the Congressional Fire Services Institute. "They understand the immense sacrifices our nation's firefighters make every day to protect our communities. Passage of the Volunteer Incentive Protection Act will help the volunteer fire service with recruitment and retention by enabling volunteer firefighters to keep certain benefits provided by state and local authorities, rather than returning a portion of that amount to the Internal Revenue Service. That's good legislation for the fire service and for our local communities.”
03.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) cosponsored legislation introduced by Rep. Carlos Curlbelo (R-Fl), the Recognizing America’s Children (RAC) Act, which would provide a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. The bill provides immigrants that have been vetted by The Department of Homeland Security with three pathways toward legal status: higher education, service in the armed forces, or work authorization. Following a 5-year conditional status, these immigrants would be able to reapply for a 5-year permanent status. Additional original co-sponsors of the RAC Act are Representatives Mike Coffman (CO-6), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Mark Amodei (NV-2), Jenniffer González Colón (PR), David G. Valadao (CA-21), and Fred Upton (MI-6). "Children who came to the U.S. by no fault of their own and grew up in our country should be permitted to pursue the American dream," Reichert said. "These individuals are our children's classmates, our neighbors, our friends, and our loved ones. They have sacrificed through military service, earned degrees to become doctors and teachers, and have contributed to our communities in immeasurable ways. I am proud to support a bill that recognizes what these individuals have given back to our great country." “Over the years many immigrant children have arrived in our country – brought by their parents who either illegally crossed one of our borders or overstayed their visas,” Curbelo said. “For most of these young people, the United States is the only country they have ever called home. They attended school with our own children, graduated high school and today they are seeking to serve in our military, pursue a college degree or certificate and contribute to our economy by working. “These are America’s children, and that is why I’m proud to lead this group of representatives from all over the country to introduce legislation to simply recognize them as such and provide them an earned path to legal status,” added Curbelo. “I hope Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate can get behind this legislation and that it can soon be sent to the President’s desk for his signature.” “It’s so important to recognize that young people who were brought here as children, who grew up here, went to school here, and who often know of no other country, be allowed to legally remain in the United States,” Coffman said. “Let’s give them a chance to achieve the American Dream through work, education, or military service, and to help us together build a stronger America.” “We have many undocumented young adults in America who were brought here through no fault of their own and know no other country to call home,” said Denham. “If these young men and women are willing to serve in the military, pursue a degree or contribute to the economy, then I believe they should have the opportunity to do so.” “This bill recognizes those who were brought here at a young age by their parents and are living in the shadows,” Diaz-Balart said. “I am proud to support legislation that will allow hardworking and selfless individuals who want to pursue higher education, serve in our military, and become part of America’s work force to do just that.” “I’m proud to be joining Carlos on this endeavor that will bring us closer to ensuring that our Dreamers, who were brought to our nation through no fault of their own, and who are also the future of our great nation, can continue to positively contribute to our society,” said Ros-Lehtinen. “Throughout my years in Congress, I have been a staunch advocate to protect these young men and women because they are the lifeblood of many communities and are as American as anyone else. We should nurture their talents so our country can grow and be strengthened by their inclusion.” “I’m sick of defending nothing as it pertains to congressional action on immigration,” Amodei said. “I’d rather be criticized for attempting to move an issue toward solution than criticized for repeated inaction. I believe this bill is a step in the right direction and I’m pleased to team up with Congressman Curbelo and my colleagues in the House to reform our broken immigration system.” “I’m happy to support this legislation that does justice to thousands of qualified and vetted undocumented immigrants who entered our nation as children through no fault of their own,” said González Colón. “There is no doubt our immigration system is in desperate need of repair. And while it is important we reform our process and secure our borders, it is also critical that we treat those who came here through no fault of their own with compassion,” Valadao said. “This bill will provide legal status to those young people who choose to contribute to our society by pursing an education or serving in the armed forces, allowing them to stay in the United States, the only home they know.” “For these young people, the United States is their home. They’ve been raised in our neighborhoods, attended our schools, and worked in our communities,” said Upton. “This legislation simply gives these kids, who have been carefully vetted by the Department of Homeland Security, the chance to earn legal status by pursuing higher education, serving in our armed forces, or entering the workforce. I’ve long-been supportive of common-sense, bipartisan reforms to our broken immigration system and hope to see this piece of legislation advance quickly.”
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – This week, Co-Chairs of the bipartisan House Law Enforcement Caucus Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), a 33 year law enforcement veteran, and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) sent a letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), especially its hiring program. Reps. Reichert and Pascrell urged the Administration to put their full support behind COPS and the programs it supports. “I know firsthand how important community policing is to reducing crime, keeping officers safe, and building trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve,” said Rep. Reichert. “Today members of law enforcement around the country are being asked to take on more while facing widespread staffing shortages. Our local law enforcement are our first line of defense, the first to respond to acts of domestic terrorism. We must support the men and women who risk their lives daily to keep our communities and our families safe. There is no greater way to do this than through strong support of the COPS Office and community policing.” Congressman Reichert also testified before the House Appropriations Committee, calling on committee members to strengthen funding for the COPS Hiring Program. To watch his testimony, click HERE. The full contents of the joint letter to the President can be found HERE or below: ​ Dear President Trump: As Co-Chairs of the bipartisan House Law Enforcement Caucus, we write in strong support of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) and the programs the office administers on behalf of our nation’s law enforcement officers. With tensions between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve on the rise, we are concerned by any legislative or budget proposals that would jeopardize the work of the COPS Office. Now, more than ever, it is essential to support community policing efforts that build trust and mutual respect between law enforcement officers and communities. For over two decades, the COPS Office has provided critical resources to state, local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement agencies to advance community policing efforts that have reduced crime and made towns and cities across America safer. These resources have helped implement initiatives to develop and test innovative policing strategies and provide training to community members, local government leaders, and all levels of law enforcement. One of the most critical programs the COPS Office oversees is the COPS Hiring competitive grants program, which provides struggling communities with necessary funding to address their personnel needs. Since its inception, the COPS Hiring Program has placed approximately 129,000 officers in communities across the United States to advance policing and crime prevention efforts. These are critical bodies on the street patrolling neighborhoods, as well as school resource officers in our nation’s classrooms to help keep our children safe. Staffing challenges not only jeopardize the safety of our men and women in uniform, but also exacerbate the breakdown in trust between law enforcement and community. Police departments must have the staff necessary to effectively engage with their communities and proactively respond to their needs, instead of running from one crime to the next. In fact, the study The Effects of COPS Office Funding on Sworn Force Levels, Crimes, and Arrests, completed by researchers from the University of Chicago, Duke University, and Cornell University, found that federal investment in local policing through the COPS Hiring Program led to a reduction in crime without a corresponding increase in arrests. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of community policing in reducing crimes while not exacerbating our nation’s incarceration rates and the strain on local economies. The COPS Hiring Program is a modest investment with huge returns for our communities, but it is much more than that. The COPS Office is vital to our nation’s homeland security. Local law enforcement officers are our first line of defense - they are the first to respond to acts of domestic terrorism and they are increasingly tasked with additional duties in the national interest like drug enforcement and gang elimination efforts. As the federal government calls upon local cops to do more, we have a responsibility to ensure they have the tools and resources necessary to carry out their critical mission to protect the homeland. The COPS Office is also responsible for implementing the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act (Public Law No: 114-12), a law we authored in response to targeted attacks on law enforcement. This law establishes a nationwide Blue Alert communications system, modeled after Amber Alerts, to help disseminate information on the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer in the line of duty, an officer who is missing in connection with the officer's official duties, or an imminent and credible threat that an individual intends to cause the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer. The sharing of this information will help law enforcement officers more quickly identify and apprehend violent criminals and prevent further loss of life. We plan to continue to engage with the COPS Office to ensure that this law is implemented expeditiously to help ensure the safety of our police officers when they are in the line of duty. Unwavering support for the COPS Office is one of the best ways we can work together to support our law enforcement community. The Law Enforcement Caucus looks forward to working with your Administration to improve community policing efforts across the country to keep our neighborhoods safe. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. ​ Sincerely, ​ Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ)
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statements after President Donald Trump released his 2017 trade agenda. Chairman Reichert said: “I agree with the President that we must break down trade barriers for American manufacturers, farmers, and service providers through high-quality trade agreements that open up new opportunities for American businesses to sell their goods and services around the world. By forcing open markets and knocking down barriers abroad, we create here at home more good jobs that pay well—some 15 to 20 percent more than non-trade related jobs. “If America wants to remain competitive on the world stage, we simply have to engage. Our competitors across the globe have already recognized the future belongs to those countries that trade outside their borders and create opportunities for their companies to tap into the enormous potential that is waiting in the international marketplace. We cannot afford to miss the chance for American businesses to reach new consumers—if we do not fill these markets with American products, other countries will seize them from us. And if we sit on the bench, our competitors will write the rules and create the trade standards we will all have to play by. They are ready to move ahead with or without us. “Our current trade agreements have benefited families and communities across my home state and the country. We can—and do—hold our partners accountable to these agreements through rigorous dispute settlement proceedings with real teeth, including at the World Trade Organization. Dispute settlement allows us to win a level playing field for American businesses and workers when our trading partners have not followed the rules. “I agree with President Trump that we can make improvements and update our agreements like NAFTA, which was negotiated many years ago. I am committed to working closely with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to modernize our trade agreements and move forward on negotiating new ones that meet the objectives Congress has established and the high standards Americans expect and deserve.”Chairman Brady said: “I appreciate President Trump’s strong support for trade agreements that grow our economy and create good jobs here at home. Done right and aggressively enforced, trade agreements turn one-way trade coming into America into two-way trade that levels the playing field for American workers around the world. Without solid trade agreements, we will see our competitors overtake us in more markets around the world and reach millions of new customers who should be ours. With 96% of the world’s consumers living outside our country, we must continue to move forward with bold new trade agreements that encourage more people to buy �?Made in America’ products and services. “I strongly believe that our current trade agreements—including the WTO—have been successful for Americans because these agreements establish a firm rule of law to hold our competitors in check and opening markets for us to sell our goods, services, and farm products. They have also made a broad array of products available to American families at affordable prices. And when other countries don’t follow the rules, our agreements give us powerful tools through a dispute settlement process to retaliate against them. However, I agree with President Trump that we should improve our agreements to make them better serve American workers. NAFTA, for example, is decades old, and we need new disciplines on digital trade, state-owned enterprises, labor, and other unfair trade barriers. Congress has set forth in statute many detailed negotiating objectives that we want to see to improve our trade agreements. “I look forward to working intensively with President Trump and his Administration to strengthen our existing agreements and deliver strong new trade agreements that will improve the lives of all Americans.”
03.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after President Trump's address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, President Trump stood before the American people and elected officials representing all corners of our country, promising to be the president for all people living in this great country. Out of all his campaign promises, this is the one he cannot fail to deliver on. I am hearing from and talking to people across Washington’s Eighth District every day. I’ve heard their sincere hopes and I’ve heard their genuine fears. I can see it in their eyes and feel it in their voices. There are deep divisions in our country, and those divisions are driven by passion and concern. We have seen it in the rifts between law enforcement and community. We have seen it in protests within our cities, on our TVs, and across the dinner table at family meals. Bridging the divide begins and ends with rebuilding trust between one another. While we may never agree on all policy proposals, we must look for areas where we can find common ground and remind ourselves that in the end, we are all on the same team. I am confident Congress and the White House can begin working toward uniting the country by treating one another with civility and respect and implementing policy solutions that better the lives of all Americans. Families in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District deserve affordable, accessible, and personalized health care. American families deserve a simpler, fairer tax code that allows them to bring home more of their hard-earned dollars. They deserve an economy where determination and sweat can lead to boundless opportunities. And, they deserve to live in neighborhoods where they know their loved ones are safe. These are human desires that are blind to class, color, and geography. As we work toward these goals, I remain willing to work with all sides, but will also be ready to speak out when I feel Congress or the Administration are taking the country in the wrong direction. When I was first sworn into office in 2005, I swore to protect the U.S. Constitution. That is a promise I have not forgotten and one I hold dear. The President took that same oath when he was inaugurated this past January. He must look to this document as a guide to his platform and a check on his executive authority. During this new Congress and Administration we will continue to face challenges, but these challenges are also opportunities. I look forward – with optimism and energy – to working with the constituents of Washington’s Eighth District, Congress, and the Administration to find solutions that unite us as a country and better the lives of our families.”
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the threat made against the Jewish Community Center in Mercer Island, WA and the more than 100 attacks on Jewish communities across the country. “I am deeply disheartened and disturbed with what I have been seeing around the country and now in our own backyard,” said Congressman Reichert. “There is no place for hatred, bigotry, or antisemitism in our community. Religious freedom is a cornerstone of the values this nation was built on. Individuals of all religious backgrounds feeling anything less than safe in our region and in our country is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated. These malicious attacks on places of worship, community centers, and on sacred burial grounds must be investigated with urgency and those who committed these crimes must be held accountable.” “I call on all Americans to join me in sending your thoughts, prayers, and support to the Mercer Island Jewish community and the Jewish communities around our country who have been threatened for no other reason but for peacefully practicing their faith.”
02.17.2017	There has been some misinformation circulating that I am holding a town hall in Cashmere on February 20th. That is not true. I will be joining Enrinque Cerna for a FB Live hosted by KCTS on Feb 23rd at 1 pm. The event can be viewed live on my Facebook page or on the KCTS 9 Facebook page. You can submit questions at the below link. Meeting with constituents and hearing your concerns is my top priority. I encourage you to visit my website to schedule an appointment with me or a member of my staff. https://kcts9.org/submit-question-david-reichert
02.17.2017	I have spoken with and heard from countless people across our district about the upcoming changes to our health care system. I want to take this opportunity to tell you I am listening to your feedback and let you know where I stand. Regardless of political party, income, race, religion, or gender we all want to know more than anything that our loved ones are safe. When difficult times come we need to know we will have access to the health care we need to take care of our family. It is not surprising there is so much anger, concern, and fear over our country’s health care system. While some people are angry because changes to their health plan have left them with coverage they cannot afford, others are scared because after finally having health insurance for the first time in years they fear it will be taken away. Both scenarios leave us feeling helpless. It is easy to say a bill or law is all good or all bad, but the truth is our current health system has benefitted some and hurt others. We all agree that a person with a pre-existing condition getting to go to the doctor for a checkup is a great thing. At the same time when a family of four can no longer see their doctor when hit with the flu because they cannot afford their insurance plan, they are much worse off than in previous years. Health coverage you cannot afford to use is not coverage at all. Recognizing the current health system does include some benefits, I am committed to keeping those benefits in place. I will fight to protect children’s ability to stay on their parents’ plan until age 26. I do not believe anyone should be faced with a lifetime limit on coverage, and most importantly to me, people with pre-existing conditions must be able to get the health care they need. In fact, I am a cosponsor of the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017 to ensure people with pre-existing condition cannot be denied coverage. Where the law has failed is where we must make the most improvements. With costs going up and choices going down for Washington families I believe we can and should do better. As a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee I am working to provide families relief through lower costs, better coverage, more choices, and lower taxes – the current law imposed over $1 trillion in new taxes on the American people. I want to put patients back in charge of their own health care. The stories I hear from people across the 8th District weigh on my mind every day. I understand if Congress does not get this right families across Washington will suffer. I assure you I am working tirelessly with my colleagues to protect your health care and improve coverage for everyone. Thank you to everyone who has contacted my office to share your thoughts and stories. That input is very important as we move forward with health care reform.
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressmen Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) introduced a bipartisan House Resolution expressing the need to recognize America’s federal public lands as national treasures and to preserve them for future generations. “From Mount Rainier National Park, the Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, to the Wenatchee National Forest, our region, our state, and our country are blessed with beautiful feats of nature,” Congressman Reichert said. “As Washington residents we have enjoyed these treasures hiking with our families, taking swims in the lake, and looking out our windowsills at the beautiful landscape. It is our duty to make sure our children and grandchildren are afforded the same experiences and to support our local economies who depend on their natural beauty to attract tourists and visitors from across the globe. We must continue to protect and preserve our federal lands.” “Our country’s most important natural places provide many benefits to all Americans, and Congress has the responsibility to oversee the proper management of these lands for generations to come,” Congressman Lowenthal said. “This resolution signifies our continued intention to keep America’s public lands in the public domain for all to enjoy and benefit from.”
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, and fellow Republican members of the Committee met with key members of the Trump Administration’s trade team. Congressman Reichert released the following statement after the meeting: “This meeting was a great opportunity to meet the Administration’s trade team and discuss the trade agenda for the new Congress,” said Chairman Reichert. “High-quality trade agreements are critical to the success of our farmers, workers, entrepreneurs and local and national economy. We must put America’s interests first by giving our exporters access to new markets, holding our trading partners accountable, and creating new opportunities to sell our goods around the world. I look forward to building on the meeting we had today and working toward our shared goals of engaging in high-quality trade agreements and growing jobs here at home.”
02.15.2017	Washington, D.C.—This week, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of 33 years, Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Senators Orrin Hatch (R-U), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the Probation Officer Protection Act of 2017—a bill that will protect probation officers and enhance their ability to do their job by giving them authority to arrest a third party who forcibly interferes with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties. “Hostile and at times threatening environments are part of a probation officer’s average day on the job,” said Rep. Reichert. “Although they encounter many of the same dangers faced by members of the law enforcement community, they do not have the same tools to protect themselves. This bipartisan, bicameral bill rights that wrong.” "Probation officers face challenging and difficult situations every day where they can encounter violent physical threats from parolees or a third party in the vicinity," said Rep. Pascrell. "However, current law prohibits these officers from having the authority to protect themselves from carrying out their duties. This bipartisan bill will simply give probation officers the authority to protect themselves and prohibit third parties from interfering with an officer’s performance or official duties." “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation helps to ensure that federal probation officers have the proper tools and authority necessary to protect themselves from hostile individuals who may attempt to harm them or otherwise interfere while they perform their important work,” Senator Hatch said. “This bill also supports our men and women in law enforcement by freeing up precious time and resources for the local police, who will no longer need to accompany and provide backup for probation officers. Because many states already grant state probation officers authority to arrest third parties who forcibly interfere with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties, it only makes sense to give federal probation officers the same authority.” “Probation officers are often placed in compromising situations when they search properties for contraband,” Senator Feinstein said. “Friends and relatives of individuals on probation may threaten violence or block them from conducting their search. This has happened several times in California. Our bill addresses this problem by allowing probation officers to arrest individuals who try to stop them from doing their jobs.” “Probation officers play a critical role in our criminal justice system by promoting public safety and working with offenders to manage risks and reduce recidivism ,” said Senator Tillis. “Our probation officers also need the ability to protect themselves, and this bipartisan legislation will give them the necessary authority to arrest individuals who threaten their safety or interfere with their job performance that is so crucial to the safety of our communities.” “Our law enforcement officers throughout West Virginia and across the country go above and beyond to protect our communities. Our probation officers need the authority to do their jobs, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor on this bill that will ensure they are able to protect the communities they serve and make us all safer,” said Senator Manchin. Statements of Support Honorable Ricardo S. Martinez, Chair, Committee on Criminal Law, Judicial Conference of the United States “As Chair of the Committee on Criminal Law of the Judicial Conference of the United States, which oversees the federal probation system, I am writing to express our support for the Probation Officer Protection Act, which would give probation officers the authority to temporarily direct, and if necessary to arrest, a person who is obstructing the officer while performing their official duties. This limited authority would allow probation officers to do their job safely and effectively. We greatly appreciate your leadership and support for this modest but much-needed reform.” Craig F. Penet, President, Federal Probation and Pretrial Officers Association “Without the appropriate tools to confront and address hostile and aggressive third parties, U.S. Probation Officers are left with little choice but to abandon searches — potentially allowing evidence/contraband to remain in the community. FPPOA strongly urges Congress to act on tis bill as a necessary policy reform that will have a significant impact on officer safety.” Nathan Catura, National President, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association “I am writing on behalf of the more than 27,000 members of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association to advise you of our strong support for legislation you intend to reintroduce entitled the “Probation Officer Protection Act.” Thank you for your continued leadership on this important officer safety issue.” “As the volume of approved searches they must conduct has markedly increased over the past year, the absence of any authority to restrain or direct the movements of third parties places Probation Officers at a greater and unnecessary risk of physical harm. That is why the 'Probation Officer Protection Act' is so important.” Background Under current law, a federal probation officer may arrest a probationer or individual on supervised release if the officer has probable cause to believe that the offender has violated a condition of his or her probation or release. See 18 U.S.C. § 3606. The officer may make the arrest with or without a warrant. In practice, formal arrests by probation officers are rare. Rather, probation officers use this authority to lawfully engage in less restrictive uses of force, such as ordering an offender to stand aside during a search; instructing an offender not to interfere with the officer’s movements; or, in rare cases, temporarily restraining an offender who poses a physical danger. Current law does not, however, address a probation officer’s arrest authority in situations where a third party attempts to physically obstruct the officer or cause the officer physical harm. Although obstructing a probation officer in the performance of his or her official duties is illegal, when a probation officer encounters an uncooperative or violent third party, the officer may be forced to retreat because he or she lacks authority to restrain the third party. This lack of authority and resulting need to retreat exposes probation officers to greater risk of harm and allows the third party—along with any evidence or individual the third party is attempting to shield—to elude capture. As a result, evidence that an offender has violated a condition of his or her probation or supervised release, or evidence of other criminal activity, may be lost. In some circumstances, a probation officer may be able to enlist the assistance of local police in responding to a hostile third party. But this is not, in and of itself, an adequate solution. First, unless the probation officer knows in advance that he or she is likely to encounter a hostile third party and can find an available police officer to accompany him or her, the probation officer must wait for police backup to arrive. This is often not a viable option. Second, even if a local police officer is available to accompany the probation officer, because the probation officer lacks arrest authority, he or she cannot lawfully assist the police officer if the police officer is accosted. Third, requiring federal probation officers to rely on local law enforcement in responding to uncooperative or violent third parties burdens local police departments and diverts police resources from other uses.
02.10.2017	Every year on May 15th, the United States observes Peace Officers Memorial Day during National Police Week to recognize and pay tribute to the law enforcement officers who have given their lives in the line of duty. Tragically, this year 143 names will be added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial wall in remembrance of the men and women who were killed in the line of duty last year. As a 33 year law enforcement veteran, I have experienced the deep feelings of pain and sorrow of losing friends and colleagues on the job. Their deaths remind me every day that officers are willing to respond to a call for help regardless of an individual’s political views, race, religion, or criminal history. Like my friends and those who lost their lives before and after them, officers are willing to sacrifice everything for those they serve. Our law enforcement officers and their families deserve our support. Together, we must do more to improve the breakdown in trust between police and the communities they serve. We must change the national rhetoric and remember to recognize and appreciate their everyday acts of bravery and kindness in service to all of us. Each week, leading up to May 15th I will share with you a reason our law enforcement community deserves our support. I hope you will join in me in participating in #15ReasonsforMay15 by posting stories about the important work our law enforcement officers do in our communities, thanking your local officers, and any additional creative ideas you can think of to show your appreciation. I will proudly display stories shared with my office on my website . Together, these small acts of thanks will add up to a big show of support for law enforcement across the nation as we honor their service and remember the sacrifices of the 143 officers who gave their lives last year. Reason Number Two: Perseverance Last December, Mount Vernon officer, Mike “Mick” McClaughry, was shot in the head while responding to a local shooting. Officer McClaughry is a father, a husband, and a three decade law enforcement veteran. For over two months he underwent treatment at Harborview Medical Center – at times hanging on to his life in critical condition. With the help of outstanding medical professionals, a loving family, an outpouring of support from his community, and an incredible determination to survive, Officer McClaughry was released from the hospital. His injuries have left him blind and unable to continue working at the Mount Vernon PD, but he has taught us all a lesson about not only what it means to serve and sacrifice, but how to persevere against tremendous odds. Reason Number Three: Going Above and Beyond the Call of Duty When most of us think of a law enforcement officer we think just that – they are an enforcer of the law. But they are much more than that. They are mentors. They are a support system. They are ready and willing to serve the community in any capacity they can.Lt. B.J. Gruber of the Marion, Ohio Police Department is one example of an officer who went above the call of duty to respond to a request for help. When a ten year old Lena Draper used Facebook message to reach out to Marion PD for help on her math assignment, Lt. Gruber did not hesitate to respond. Together, they worked through several sets of problems. Although Lt. Gruber was a little rusty on his arithmetic, Draper and her mother appreciated the officer’s willingness to go beyond his official duties to help with the assignment. The Marion PD later posted on their Facebook page that it makes any type of emergency a cause to be answered. Nice work! Reason Number Four: Doing More With Less This week, my fellow co-chair on the House Law Enforcement Caucus, Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and I sent a letter to President Trump outlining the importance of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), especially its hiring program. I know firsthand how important community policing is to reducing crime, keeping officers safe, and building trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. Today members of law enforcement around the country are being asked to take on more while facing widespread staffing shortages. Our local law enforcement are our first line of defense, the first to respond to acts of domestic terrorism. We must support the men and women who risk their lives daily to keep our communities and our families safe. There is no greater way to do this than through strong support of the COPS Office and community policing. I also testified before the House Appropriations Committee, calling on committee members to strengthen funding for the COPS Hiring Program. To watch my testimony, click HERE. Reason Number Five: Strength in Community It was just another Sunday for Vickie Williams-Tillman. A mother, a grandmother, and a wife, Mrs. William-Tillman was on her way to buy supplies for a nice Sunday meal when she saw a confrontation on the side of the road. It appeared that a Baton Rouge, Louisiana police officer was being attacked by a suspect. Without hesitation, Mrs. Williams-Tillman called 911 and then, fearing for the officer’s safety when the suspect began hitting him with a baton, took matters into her own hands. She jumped out of her vehicle and onto the suspect’s back, preventing the suspect from grabbing a gun from the officer’s holster. Mrs. Williams-Tillman, 56 years old and only 5’2, demonstrated a tremendous feat of bravery and courage that day, but she also showed communities are stronger and safer when we take care of one another and work together as a team. We typically depend on police officers to protect our communities, but Mrs. William-Tillman reminded us that they are also members of the community. Click HERE to read the full story. Reason Number Six: Going Blue Means Thank You My co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) and I sent a letter to President Donald Trump, requesting that the President illuminate the White House blue on the night of May 15, 2017 in honor of Peace Officers Memorial Day. Blue lights are traditionally used as a symbol of recognition and appreciation of law enforcement. This is an important show of support for the more than 21,000 officers who have given their lives while serving their communities. I hope the President will take this opportunity to recognize the difficulties and dangers that officers encounter every day in public service to us all. The men and women who wear the badge understand the dangers of their job, but they heed the call to serve and willingly face those risks every day in order to create safe communities for all Americans. Peace Officers Memorial Day is the perfect time to honor these great sacrifices made by those who wear the uniform. Requesting the President to light the White House blue on Peace Officers Memorial Day, is part of my #15ReasonsforMay15 campaign, which aims to build awareness leading up to May 15th by highlighting the positive contributions and sacrifices law enforcement makes on behalf of our communities. Reason Number Seven: Compassion and Generosity What a story. Jourdan Duncan, a teenager from Vallejo, California, had been making a seven mile trip on foot from work back to his parents’ home. He was working long and late hours to save up for college. Cpl. Kirk Keffer of the Benicia Police Department saw him one night on his way home and wondered why someone would be walking down the street alone at 11 p.m. When he heard Duncan’s story he gave him a ride home, but when he returned to the police department, he could not get Duncan’s long commute out of his head. Read the story below to find out how the police department and community joined together to change this impressive young man’s life. Reason Number Eight: Building Coalitions Difficult problems are not solved in a vacuum. Making our communities safer begins with confronting the issues that created conflict in the first place. This week, my fellow co-chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus, Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and I had a long and meaningful conversation with individuals who are working to move the needle on rebuilding police-community relations by working with Members of Congress on shared goals. Current and former NFL players, Anquan Boldin, Donte Stallworth, Johnson Bademosi, and Malcolm Jenkins shared their stories and concerns about inadequate funding for community policing and training programs. These are issues law enforcement and the communities they serve can support together. I am committed to fighting to protect and grow these critical programs and look forward to continuing to work with members of the NFL who are willing to use their influence to build trust within our communities Reason Number Nine: Safe Communities Students, business owners, mothers and fathers, young people and the elderly - all individuals, regardless of background or occupation, want to feel safe in their communities. Law enforcement is here to fulfill this need and they do so day in and day out. But funding cuts have put tremendous strains on law enforcement agencies nation-wide as they face hiring shortages and a lack of resources and support for critical training and community outreach programs. We must reverse this trend and fully support our law enforcement so they can protect and serve their communities to the best of their ability. This week, I led a bipartisan letter to the House Appropriations Committee, urging them to strengthen funding for the Byrne Jag and COPS programs, which give agencies the hiring capacity, tools, and resources to perform their critical mission of protecting our loved ones. I'm proud this letter earned the bipartisan support of 183 of my colleagues. Reason Number Ten: Protecting Our Natural Treasures In celebration of Earth Day tomorrow, I wanted to highlight the work our law enforcement does not just to protect the public, but to protect our public lands. When you visit one of the many beautiful national parks across the country and our region, including Mount Rainier National Park, there are individuals working to keep you safe and protect our natural treasures from forest fires, looting and vandalism of archeological sites, and other disruptions. But our law enforcement officers cannot perform this important job without adequate resources and support. Recently, I sent a bipartisan letter with Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, urging my colleagues to provide robust funding in Fiscal Year 2018 for law enforcement officers working on our public lands. I remain committed to preserving and protecting our public lands for future generations and supporting the individuals who protect them. Reason Number Eleven: Overcoming Adversity The traumas faced by members of law enforcement do not leave them when they go home at the end of the day. During my time in the King County Sheriff’s Office I lost dear friends and witnessed tragedies that are forever seared into my memory. Just like our military members who protect us abroad, our law enforcement officers who protect us here at home need and deserve access to critical mental health and wellness services. This week, I was proud to support a bipartisan bill, the Law Enforcement Mental Health & Wellness Act, which raises awareness about this important issue and will move us forward to finally giving those who sacrifice so much on our behalf the services they deserve. Reason Number 12: Protecting by Caring Justin Martin of the Hamden, Connecticut Police Department did not waste a moment when he saw a man at a retirement home climbing over the roof railing attempting to commit suicide. After residents informed him of the situation, Officer Martin raced up six flight of stairs, grabbed the man by his feet, and rescued him from hurting himself. Our members of law enforcement do more than protect us by patrolling the streets or intervening in violent skirmishes, they protect us by showing they care. Read the full story, HERE. Reason Number Thirteen: Seeing the Bigger Picture When Atlanta police officer Che Milton got a call to investigate theft at a local store, he was not expecting what he found. The suspect was a 12 year-old girl and her crime was stealing a $2 pair of shoes. She explained to Officer Milton that the shoes were for her sister and she did not have the money to afford them. Knowing there was probably more to the story and wanting to see how he could help, Officer Milton had the young girl take him back to her family, where he saw they were struggling to get by. It was only his first week on the job, but Officer Milton bought the family a pizza dinner and organized an effort within the police department to help raise money for the family. In an interview with CNN, the department said, "The way that Officer Milton handled this incident showed that not only is he here to enforce the law but also to go the extra mile and be a bigger part of the community he is policing." Read the full story, HERE. Reason Number Fourteen: Family Sacrifice Today, as part of Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Week, hundreds of families, friends, colleagues, and loved ones from every corner of the country will gather at the U.S. Capitol for the 36th Annual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Day to honor the 394 officers who gave their lives in service to their communities. Their names will forever be etched in our hearts and on the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial along with the over 21,000 that came before them. Last year, I had the privilege of meeting with some of the families from our region who traveled to Washington, DC to honor their loved one who fell in the line of duty. It was a reminder that both members of law enforcement and their families make tremendous sacrifices on our behalf. This week, and every week, let’s remind them of our appreciation. Reason Number Fifteen: Solidarity Last Sunday, hundreds of families from all corners of the country gathered on the National Mall lawn for a candlelight vigil and listened as the names of the 394 officers who will be added to the National Law Enforcement Memorial were read. Family members of fallen officers have gone through their own personal experience of mourning, but coming together in one place at one time reminds loved ones they are not alone – they have a warm and supportive community behind them. Beginning with the candlelight vigil and the Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service, Police Week gives families the opportunity to both honor loved ones and connect with law enforcement families across the country who have also experienced a loss few others can understand. As a former cop, I have seen and experienced this special relationship and am deeply appreciative of the unbreakable bond that overcomes differences in race, religion, economic status, and political background. More Stories About the Every Day Officer: St. Louis cops to partner with public school students for chess New Jersey man pulled from burning car seconds before explosion
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the 9th Circuit Court of Appeal's ruling to uphold Washington State's request to put an emergency stay on President Trump's Executive Order 13769, “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.” “As Americans we are proud to live in a welcoming and compassionate country," said Rep. Reichert. "The way the Executive Order was developed and implemented did not uphold our values and disrupted the lives of many individuals who legally deserve to be here. Congress and the Administration must work together to implement legislation that keeps Americans safe while respecting religious freedom and creating a way forward for those who wish to come here legally and contribute to our communities.”
02.10.2017	Washington, DC - Today, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-WI) appointed Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, to the President’s Export Council, the nation’s principal advisory committee on international trade. Rep. Reichert previously served as a member of the Export Council under the Obama Administration. In a statement, Speaker Ryan said: "As chairman of the Ways and Means trade subcommittee and relentless advocate for exporters in his home state of Washington and across the country, Dave is the perfect person to represent the House on the President's Export Council. His leadership and expertise in trade policy will be invaluable as we work with the administration to create jobs here in America." “I am an honored to have another opportunity to serve on the President’s Export Council,” said Chairman Reichert. “I look forward to working with the Trump Administration to achieve our shared goals of growing our economy and creating good-paying jobs here at home. With high-quality free trade agreements we can put America first by selling more American products across the globe, setting standards other countries must meet, leveling the playing field for American businesses, and creating new opportunities for our farmers, workers, and entrepreneurs.”
02.09.2017	Washington, DC - This week, the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus welcomed Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Don Bacon (R-NE), and Charlie Crist (D-FL) to the Caucus, bringing the total membership to 24 split evenly between Democrats and Republicans. The mission of the Climate Solutions Caucus is to educate members on economically-viable options to reduce climate risk and to explore bipartisan policy options that address the impacts, causes, and challenges of our changing climate. “Climate change is a serious issue that could prove to be devastating not only to our environment but also to our economy,” said Rep. Reichert. “This potential threat requires us, as a nation, to reimagine not only how we use energy, but also how we protect our environment and create jobs. This is not a partisan issue. We all have a responsibility to protect our environment, to maintain clean water and clean air, and to ensure future generations can enjoy the beauty of our natural heritage.” “Climate change is a critical threat to our way of life in Oregon and to the health of our planet,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I’m committed to working with my colleagues to find solutions to this problem. My home state is leading the way in responding to this challenge, and I’m eager to bring our ideas to the Climate Solutions Caucus.” “I am proud to be joining the Climate Solutions Caucus to further expand my knowledge on the potential impacts of climate change and find bi-partisan solutions,” said Rep. Bacon. “This was a promise I made to constituents of my district and I keep my promises. As a commander of airbases in both Nebraska and Germany, I managed several important environmental programs to include resettlement of bird populations to reduce hazards to aircraft; incorporation of cleaner fuel technologies to minimize aircraft impacts on the environment; and proper disposal of hazardous chemicals used with our aircraft.” “In Pinellas County, there is no denying climate change is happening. As a peninsula on the peninsula of Florida, we are threatened more and more each year by rising sea levels,” said Rep. Crist. “I am proud to join the Climate Solutions Caucus, highlighting Congress’ growing bipartisan commitment to tackling this urgent challenge. Together, we can and must protect our environment and economy from climate change.” Below is the full membership list of the Climate Solutions Caucus in the 115th Congress as of February 9, 2017: Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. John Delaney (D-MD) Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA) Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL) Rep. David Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE) Rep. Charlie Crist (D-FL)
02.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) introduced the Lymphedema Treatment Act, H.R. 930, to ensure Medicare coverage for the millions of Americans who suffer from Lymphedema. “Individuals suffering from lymphedema should have equal access to treatment,” said Rep. Reichert. “Compression garments can make all the difference for the nearly six million individuals suffering from this chronic and debilitating disease. Closing the Medicare coverage gap for compression garments is a common-sense way to give patients real hope to fight back and live with the best possible quality of life.” “Americans living with chronic illness deserve a health care system that delivers necessary treatments. Lymphedema should be no exception,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Our legislation will help ease the financial burden faced by those afflicted by this disease to improve their quality of life.” “Patient care must be at the forefront of every debate. Six million Americans are stuck in the coverage gap and unable to obtain Medicare coverage for the equipment and therapies to combat Lymphedema,” said Rep. Lance, a member of the House Health Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Rare Disease Caucus. “This bill will improve patient care and reduce overall health care costs associated with this chronic disease.” “Lymphedema is a painful and costly condition, one that I have seen in an close friend of mine,” said Rep. Schakowsky. "I’m proud to join my colleagues in reintroducing legislation that would expand Medicare and allow us to provide millions Lymphedema patients with the life-changing care they need.” “Lymphedema has a multitude of causes, both congenital and acquired, and when untreated leads to a marked increase in complications and overall healthcare costs,” said Heather Ferguson, founder and executive director of the Lymphedema Advocacy Group. “Substantial clinical evidence shows that the most effective treatment involves the use of doctor prescribed compression garments. The Lymphedema Treatment Act will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries have the necessary medical supplies to manage this chronic and potentially debilitating condition. We are grateful for our bill sponsors and their efforts to help the millions of Americans living with lymphedema maintain their health and quality of life." Background Lymphedema is a chronic condition resulting from damaged or inadequate lymph nodes or lymphatic vessels that afflicts millions of Americans. It is a disease that one can be born with but it is most often caused by cancer treatments that damage the body’s lymph system or immune functions. Due to the painful swelling that results from lymphedema, compression therapy is an essential component of treatment but compression supplies are not covered by Medicare despite being an ongoing necessity. H.R. 930 closes this coverage gap by requiring Medicare to cover lymphedema compression items.
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – This week, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) cosponsored H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which allows individuals who meet the standards of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program to remain in the United States without fear of deportation. This protected status lasts for a period of three years while Congress and the administration update U.S. immigration laws. Additionally, an applicant may not be removed from the U.S. while his or her application for protected status is pending if the applicant meets the necessary requirements. “We can and should defend the children who were brought to our nation many years ago outside of their own control,” said Congressman Reichert. “This is their country and their home. I am proud to support these children by cosponsoring legislation to allow these individuals who are our neighbors, loved ones, colleagues and productive members of our communities to remain and work in America while we continue working toward a long-term immigration solution. Our immigration system must be fair, effective, and compassionate toward the many families and individuals seeking to live the American dream and contribute to our communities.” “It’s our moral responsibility to protect children who were brought here years ago through no fault of their own. Not only because they are our friends, neighbors and loved ones, but because it’s right thing to do” said Congresswoman Jayapal. “We are the land of opportunity that welcomes anyone seeking a better life and access to the American dream. Our inhumane immigration system goes against our values. We need to work together to solve this crisis. This is an important first step toward protecting these young people from deportation. I will continue to advocate for a permanent solution not only for these children, but also their families.” Background on the BRIDGE Act: Provides provisional protected presence for individuals who met certain eligibility standards. These include being born after June 15th, 1981 and entering the U.S. before reaching the age of 16. Additionally, an applicant must not have been convicted of a felony or three or more misdemeanors, must not be a security risk, and must be enrolled in school, have graduated from high school or have a certificate of completion, or is an honorably discharged veteran. This status would last for 3 years after the date of enactment of the legislation. An applicant may not be removed from the U.S. while his or her application for protected status is pending if the applicant appears to meet the necessary requirements. Includes protections against the sharing of applicant information.
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Executive Order, “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States.�? “Careful vetting to ensure the safety of the American people is the responsibility of the federal government and one I take very seriously,�? said Congressman Reichert. “Unfortunately what we saw this past weekend was mass confusion and miscommunication between government agencies and the improper apprehension of people legally allowed to be in the US. I urge the administration to work with Congress on solutions that protect our borders while maintaining our nation's dedication to compassion and religious freedom.�?
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation, introduced by Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Nita Lowey (D-NY). The Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act aims to expand children’s access to school around the world and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled. “Today, millions of children, especially in conflict-affected states and sub-Saharan Africa, are desperate for an education but are denied that opportunity through no fault of their own. Helping these children receive a basic education is not only the right thing to do, but will also give them skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, contribute positively to their communities, and foster more stability in conflict-prone regions,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “I am hopeful that with this bill, we can better coordinate our efforts with global partners to work toward reaching the 124 million children around the world who are not in school and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled.” “Education is the fundamental tool that empowers girls and boys to increase their economic potential, improve their health outcomes, address cultural biases, participate in their communities, and provide for their families,” said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey. “That’s why prioritizing children’s access to education around the world strengthens our national security and global leadership. Simply put, we cannot build the world we want for ourselves, and for future generations, without making education the center of our efforts.” Worldwide, 59 million primary school-age children and 65 million adolescents do not attend school – the majority of whom are girls. Tens of millions of children who start primary school drop out, and millions more are denied a secondary education. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and girls, and decreased extremism. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the READ Act calls for: U.S. engagement with key partner countries, other donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to promote sustainable, quality basic education. A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; An annual report to Congress on implementation of the basic education strategy and progress achieved by USAID programs.
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, members of the Washington State Congressional Republican delegation, Reps. Dave Reichert, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dan Newhouse, and Jaime Herrera Beutler, sent a letter to Washington Governor Jay Inslee and Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler outlining their priorities for healthcare reform and concerns about Obamacare’s impact on Washington residents. This letter served as a response to a letter Governor Inslee sent the congressional leaders regarding healthcare coverage in Washington. We firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. ### Read the full contents of the letter to Governor Inslee below: Dear Governor Inslee: Thank you for your letter regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA). We appreciate your attention to this important issue impacting Washingtonians and Americans across the country. Like you, we firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Premiums are skyrocketing across the country with double digit increases. In Washington, premiums rose as high as 24.7 percent with an average increase of 13.6 percent for 2017. Deductibles are on the same trajectory with record increases especially in our state. This year, the number of plans with deductibles at or over $6,000 more than tripled from 8 plans in 2016 to 28 plans. These rising costs are also not isolated to the individual marketplace. Employer-based family plans now cost on average $18,000 per year, which is $4,400 more than the average cost before the ACA was signed into law. Exacerbating the high out-of-pocket costs is the continued, steady departure of insurance companies from the marketplace. For 2016, 143 plans were offered in Washington’s exchange by 12 insurers. Now in 2017, only nine insurers are offering 98 plans. In a third of our counties across the nation, Americans will only have one option for health care coverage in the exchanges, including residents of Klickitat and San Juan Counties in Washington -- and that’s not a choice at all. We would also like to point out that the ACA forced 80 percent of newly insured Washingtonians into Medicaid - a safety net program that has been plagued by severe access problems, poor quality of care, and unsustainable funding. A study by researchers at Harvard University recently found that not only did Medicaid spending increase by $1,100 per person in Oregon, but beneficiaries of the state’s Medicaid program had no better clinically-measured health outcomes than individuals who had no insurance at all. Again, while adding more individuals to Medicaid may boost coverage numbers, it does not mean greater access to care for individuals and their families. We must not allow the ACA to jeopardize Medicaid’s viability for the vulnerable populations it was meant to serve - the poor, elderly, disabled, and children. Even though the law has undergone 70 significant changes to date - 24 of which were solutions offered and passed in Congress, and signed into law by the president - 8 out of 10 Americans still want the law repealed in its entirety or significantly changed. Which is why we are taking immediate action to provide relief to the American people from the ACA’s many failures. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. Again, thank you for your comments. As we work on behalf of our constituents to ensure America’s health care system works for everyone, we encourage your continued thoughts and collaboration.
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “TPP contained a number of significant wins for American businesses, farmers, and workers – but in the end, there were areas that needed to be improved to meet the high-standards Americans expect and deserve and to have the support necessary in Congress to get across the finish line," said Chairman Reichert. “If the United States is to continue as a world economic leader, we must have the chance to compete globally through high-standard trade agreements, including in the critical Asia-Pacific region. Building upon the work done to establish rules and expand access abroad to the benefit of workers across America will lead to the creation of more good-paying jobs here at home. I look forward to working with the president and his Administration on this top priority.”
01.20.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), released the below statement following the inauguration of President Donald Trump. “I congratulate President Trump, our nation’s new Commander in Chief, and I look forward to working with the Trump Administration to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution,” said Congressman Reichert. “President Trump has offered a fresh start and new beginning committed to focusing on every day American families and bringing people together. As he said in his speech, ‘whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots.’ My hope is that all Americans can come together to help build a country where everyone has a chance to learn, where our veterans are cared for and our neighborhoods are safe, and where we can all feel confident about our future and the future of our families. Together, we will work to reduce and simplify our tax system for hardworking Americans, give all Americans the healthcare coverage they deserve, and implement a strong trade agenda that creates jobs here at home and allows our businesses to compete and succeed on the world stage."
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Resolution which includes reconciliation instructions to facilitate Congressional efforts to enact patient-centered, individualized, and affordable health care reforms. “In 2010, the Obama Administration and Democrats who supported Obamacare made promises to Washington residents and Americans across the country that were never fulfilled,” said Congressman Reichert. “Families found they could not keep their doctors or hospitals and they were left with lower quality, higher cost healthcare plans. With the passage of today’s legislation, House Republicans have now begun to pave a path forward to rescue Americans from the current system and broken promises. We will provide relief from Obamacare’s failures by offering patient-centered, affordable healthcare solutions that give Americans control over their healthcare choices – not the government.
01.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a 33 year law enforcement veteran and twice elected Sheriff of King County, WA, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House in honor of National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. Last year alone, 135 members of law enforcement were killed in the line of duty – a ten percent spike from 2015. In 2016, law enforcement deaths caused by targeted attacks were at their highest in two decades. Click HERE to watch Congressman Reichert’s speech on U.S. House floor. Below is the full transcript of Congressman Reichert’s prepared remarks: “Mr. Speaker today is National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. Behind me are the faces of the 135 men and women. The faces of those who paid the ultimate price serving and protecting us this past year so that our families, our children can live safe and enjoy our freedom. Freedom isn't free! You may not know or recognize these faces, but you know the faces of others who have served or who are serving today. They are the faces of our brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers and friends. Some were ambushed and executed, some lost their lives responding to a call to save a life, someone who called for help. Tacoma Police Officer Jake Gutierrez from my home state of Washington is one of the faces behind me. He lost his life in the line of duty just last month while trying to protect a woman from domestic violence. Jake was supposed to exchange wedding vows with his fiancé in just a few weeks. Instead, she and his three daughters and granddaughter attended his funeral and tried to picture a life without Jake. Tragically, again last month a time meant for celebration, was filled with pain for another Washington family. Veteran officer Mike McClaughry from the Mt. Vernon Police Department was shot in the head while responding to a call for help. Today his children, wife, friends, and family sit by his hospital bed as his life is now in the hands of God and his doctors. This feeling of loss is one that I too am familiar with. In 1982, my partner and best friend, Sgt. Sam Hicks, was shot to death attempting to arrest a murder suspect. He left behind his wife and five sons. That was over 30 years ago but the loss of a loved one is a pain that time cannot erase. This national day of appreciation is not only a day to reflect and appreciate the service of those that have served but those that are serving today. They are driving, walking, patrolling your neighborhoods, keeping us safe, ready to put their life on the line yes, but every day they do so much more for us that goes unnoticed. The officer that took a stolen bike report at Christmas and the next day delivered a new bike to the little boy’s house. Or the officer who anonymously buys groceries for a needy family. The officer who counseled a little girl who was being bullied because of the clothes she wore and then bought her a set of new clothes. Or the officer who cradled a two month old baby in his arms giving CPR to his little fragile blue face hoping for the best but fearing the worst, then headed off to the next call. Or the officer who held the hand of a dying man after a motorcycle accident and shared his last words with his family. The officer who was spit on, ridiculed, insulted by a man threatening to kill him and his wife then minutes later saving that same man from taking his own life. These men and woman are coaches, volunteers, mentors, helping people find jobs, feeding the homeless, helping them find homes, even taking them into their own homes. These are real people, they are your neighbors and friends, they are us. This is not a job for them. This is a calling. They serve because they want to help. They want to make a difference. They serve with the heart of a servant. On this day let's take a moment to appreciate and respect all members of the law enforcement community and their families, by putting a blue light in your window or on your front porch. This is just not a sign of appreciation for law enforcement across this country, --- but a sign, a small symbol of unity for us all. We need that here in our nation more than ever. Help us remember that we are one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I am a big James Brown fan and I really like the way he puts it in a not so well known song from the 60's about America. He says ..."America is the greatest country in the world…Now black and white they may fight, but when the enemy comes we get together and run ‘em out of sight.” Mr. Speaker the enemy is here and its name is hate. I say we take James Brown’s advice, let’s get together and run it out of sight.”
01.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after being re-named Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. Congressman Reichert will also serve as the second-highest ranking Republican on the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, and will continue to serve on the Human Resources Subcommittee, where he formerly served as Chairman during the 113th Congress. “I am honored to lead the Trade Subcommittee and champion some of the issues that have the greatest impact on Washingtonians. As one of the most-trade dependent states in the country, expanded trade is critical to the success of families and communities across Washington.” said Rep. Reichert. “I am committed to creating new opportunities for our workers, manufacturers and farmers, including high-standard trade agreements that are strictly enforced, and working toward these goals with the Trump Administration as we begin the new year. By expanding opportunity and leveling the playing field for our workers and businesses, we will not only maintain our role as a world economic leader, but we will strengthen our national security and open doors for Washington’s countless entrepreneurs and workers.” “I am also pleased to continue my work reforming our tax code as the past Chairman and second in seniority on the Subcommittee on Tax Policy. Reforming our tax code to help families keep more of their hard-earned money and allow small businesses to thrive is a top priority for our nation. Additionally, I am excited to continue important work on the Human Resources Subcommittee to protect children and those who are most vulnerable in society.”
01.05.2017	Washington, DC – In light of the upcoming celebration of National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day on January 9th, Congressman Dave Reichert, a 33 year law enforcement veteran and twice elected King County Sheriff, sent letters to President Obama, President-elect Donald Trump, and our nation’s governors calling on them to honor law enforcement by lighting the White House, Trump buildings, and state capitals blue. Blue lights are the traditional symbol used to recognize our law enforcement officers. Below is an excerpt from the letters Congressman Reichert sent: “The men and women who wear the badge understand the dangers of their job, but they heed the call to serve and willingly face those risks every day in order to create safe communities for all Americans,” said Congressman Reichert. “I hope you will join me in showing the law enforcement community that their elected representatives recognize the difficulties and dangers that officers encounter every day in public service to us all. Law Enforcement Appreciation Day is the perfect time to honor the sacrifices made by those who wear the uniform; whether it’s missing family members while working during the holidays, rushing to the aid of a crime victim, or comforting those in duress.” To learn more about National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, click HERE.
01.04.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the start of the 115th Congress: “Yesterday, I had the honor and the privilege of being sworn in to represent Washington’s Eighth Congressional District in the 115th Congress,” said Rep. Reichert. “With the new Congress and incoming Administration, we are in a strong position to deliver on the issues most important to our region and people across the country.” “After yesterday’s ceremonies, today we begin our work to reduce regulatory and tax burdens on American families, pass healthcare policies that give patients more options at more affordable prices, ensure our veterans are cared for, and implement a strong trade agenda that creates jobs here at home and allows our businesses to compete and succeed on the world stage. I am confident these actions will be successful in creating a brighter future for all families across the country and will strengthen America’s economy.”
12.28.2016	Washington, DC – It has been a tough year for our nation’s law enforcement officers, their families, communities, and our country. To date, 138 law enforcement officers have lost their lives, representing a 20 percent increase over 2015. On behalf of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, Co-Chairs Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) released the following statement calling for all Americans, inside the law enforcement community and out, to reflect on our responsibilities and work together to build trust and positive relationships between law enforcement and the communities they serve: "Since the inception of the bipartisan Law Enforcement Caucus in the House of Representatives, it has been our goal to examine ways in which we can improve the safety of our law enforcement officers while simultaneously improving safety in our neighborhoods. With growing tensions between law enforcement and some of the communities they serve, this task has become increasingly urgent. Working to relieve these tensions and protect the safety of both those in and out of uniform must begin and end with rebuilding trust and respect within the communities where it has deteriorated or never existed in the first place. These changes must take place in our homes, classrooms, local diners, and on streets being patrolled, but change must also come from those with influence. Elected representatives, community leaders, and members of the press who hold this influence shoulder the burden to speak out. If we are truly committed to improving safety and preventing unnecessary deaths, then we must not seek to reaffirm our biases, but to widen the lens of our perspective and join the national conversation taking place. We believe the Law Enforcement Caucus has an important role to play in facilitating those conversations and working together to find common ground on solutions. Law enforcement deserves the respect of the communities they serve – and communities deserve the respect of law enforcement. We must also not forget that the power of police to fulfill their duties is dependent on public approval of their existence, actions and behavior, and on their ability to secure and maintain public respect. This respect must be earned, but it can only come about if community members work to understand the sacrifices law enforcement officers make on their behalf and law enforcement works to understand the communities and populations they serve. As we move into a new year, we must look to the future with optimism and the belief that every American, first and foremost, wants and deserves to feel safe and protected in their community. With the understanding that this shared goal is immune to differences in demographics and geography, we must remind ourselves that we are all Americans, working together on the same team. From there, guided by facts and grounded by common principles, we can work to strengthen and rebuild the police-community partnerships that are the foundation of civility and a functioning democracy."
12.21.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, met with Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and Vice President-elect Mike Pence to discuss the tax and trade agendas in the new Congress. Chairman Reichert released the following statement after the meeting: “Vice President-elect Mike Pence and I share the same goal of growing our economy and creating good-paying jobs here at home. Tax reform and expanded trade will help us meet this goal," said Chairman Reichert. "I am looking forward to continuing an open and direct dialogue with Mr. Pence and the Trump Administration as we move into 2017. I am confident that by putting America first through high-standard trade agreements, we will not only maintain our role as a world economic leader, but we will strengthen our national security and open doors for countless entrepreneurs and workers.”
12.15.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Trade, joins fellow Republicans on the Committee for an intensive two-day policy retreat in Washington, DC while Congress is adjourned for the holiday recess. The retreat will focus on key priorities for many Americans, including tax and health care reform. “As I visit with families across the district, I often hear the same concerns about our overly complicated tax code and the rising costs of health care,” said Rep. Reichert. “I am optimistic with a new Congress fast approaching, my colleagues and I will be in a strong position to implement the reforms Americans across Washington State and the country have been asking for.” “During this week’s retreat, we are discussing how to create a simpler, fairer tax system that allows families to keep more of their hard-earned dollars and what steps must be taken to give families access to more individualized, more affordable health care.”
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution to keep the government funded through April 28, 2017. “It is my privilege and my duty to make sure our seniors, military, and vulnerable members of society receive the support they deserve,” said Rep. Reichert. “Keeping our government fully funded and running is also critical to America’s national security and the economic stability of our country. This continuing resolution puts Congress in a strong position to immediately focus on growing good-paying American jobs and protecting our national security in the new year.”
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 6376, a bill to strengthen and incentivize the use of the energy efficient commercial buildings deduction found in Section 179D of the Internal Revenue Code. Specifically, the bill ensures that non-profits and tribal governments can benefit from the deduction just like federal, state, and local government building owners do. “Non-profit schools, hospitals, community organizations, and tribal community centers should be allowed to focus on the important services they provide to residents in Washington State and people around the country,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “By reducing their energy bills and construction costs, this legislation will help ease the financial concerns faced by many of these entities and allow them to better serve the people who count on them. I thank my colleagues for joining me in introducing this important, bipartisan bill.” “Improving energy efficiency saves money and reduces pollution,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “By strengthening incentives for energy efficiency, we can help our organizations cut costs and protect the environment.” Background: Since becoming law in 2005, 179D has proven to be an effective policy for investment in design and installation of energy efficient systems and structures benefitting consumers across the country. This simple, common-sense bill makes several important improvements to enhance and promote the use of 179D. First, it expands the current law allocation provision to cover tribal governments and non-profits. Under current law, a public building owner may allocate the deduction to the primary designer of the property. Our bill expands this provision to allow non-profit and tribal government building owners to do the same. Second, the bill ensures that S corporations and partnerships receive the full benefit of an allocated deduction. Finally, the bill makes the deduction more compatible with the low-income housing tax credit thereby encouraging the construction of energy efficient affordable housing.
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Daniel J. Evans Olympic National Park Wilderness Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives after unanimously passing the Senate in July. The legislation will rename the Olympic Wilderness within Olympic National Park as the “Daniel J. Evans Wilderness.” Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), who authored the House version of the bill, was joined by the entire Washington State congressional delegation in supporting the legislation on the House floor. It will now head to the President’s desk for signature into law. Dan Evans served the state of Washington for more than 50 years, including service as a state legislator, governor and United States Senator. During his time in the U.S. Senate, Evans was the lead sponsor of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 which designated over 1.5 million acres of wilderness areas in Washington, including 877,000 acres within Olympic National Park as “the Olympic Wilderness.” “My home state of Washington and the region I represent are known for their breathtaking natural treasures,” said Rep. Reichert. “But we cannot talk about Washington’s natural beauty without thanking the man who’s been instrumental in maintaining and protecting it for future generations. From the 1984 Washington Wilderness Act to the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988, Senator Dan Evans’ initiatives have had a lasting impact on every person who had or will get the opportunity to experience Mother Nature’s gifts. I am proud my colleagues in the House joined me in recognizing his contributions by passing the Daniel J. Evans Olympic National Park Wilderness Act and sending it to the President’s desk.”
12.01.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a law enforcement veteran of over 30 years and twice-elected former King County Sheriff, made the following statement in response to the tragic death of a veteran law enforcement officer from the Washington State Tacoma Police Department. “Today, Washington State and our country mourns the loss of an officer who confronted danger with courage and a resolute focus on saving lives, sadly sacrificing his own life in the end. It is with a heavy heart that I send my prayers and deepest condolences to the officer’s family and men and women of the Tacoma Police Department,” said Rep. Reichert. “With a recent surge in targeted attacks against members of law enforcement, we have seen tragic reminders of just how real the threats faced by our protectors are. But despite heightened tensions and sharp criticisms, we have seen resilience within our law enforcement communities and an unshakable commitment to perform their critical mission of keeping our families safe and protecting our freedoms, whether we are relaxing at home or protesting on the street. Last night was no exception. Tacoma Police Department was assisted by Lakewood, Fife, Ruston, the Pierce County Sheriff’s Office, the King County Sheriff’s Office, the Tacoma Fire Department, the Washington State Patrol, and their federal partners from ATF, who came to the scene ready to support their colleagues in securing the surrounding area. What’s exceptional about this demonstration of bravery is that it is not exceptional at all. Men and women across our country put their lives on the line every day because it is their duty and it is their calling.” “As we gather with our friends and loved ones this holiday season to celebrate and give thanks, we must remember that our family stretches beyond our kitchen table, past our neighborhood boundaries, and over the geographic boundaries that separate us. We are one family and one America – and we are all in this together.”
11.30.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. House passed the 21st Century Cures Act. This bipartisan legislation will work to spur innovation in health technology, promote life-saving research, address mental illness, and combat the opioid epidemic sweeping Washington State and the nation. “In the 21st Century, we need healthcare solutions that not only address our medical needs in the present, but also take steps to create better health outcomes for future generations,” said Rep. Reichert. “The Cures Act gives our scientists the necessary tools and resources to more quickly find life-saving cures and make health threats of today diseases of the past.” “The Cures Act is a big win for cancer patients in Washington State. Our region is fortunate to be home to some of the best medical facilities in the nation, including the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance (SCCA). With this bill, places like SCCA can expand their treatment to patients in locations outside of a hospital without harmful additional costs.” “This bill will also support the four million Americans with serious mental illness who do not receive treatment and expand training to help members of law enforcement better identify and respond to criminal suspects who are suffering from mental illness. I am proud the mental health provisions also include support for our nation’s homeless population as they work to get back on their feet. Finally, the Cures Act addresses the opioid epidemic that has torn apart countless families across the country and stolen the potential from too many lives.” ### To read more about specific provisions of the 21st Century Cures Act, click HERE.
11.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Outdoor REC Act with strong bipartisan support. This legislation, championed by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), would direct the government to measure the outdoor industry’s important contributions to the U.S. economy. “With countless hiking and biking trails, rivers, lakes, and parks, Washington State is home to some of the country’s most active outdoorsmen and women. But spending time outside is more than a recreational activity in my home state – the outdoors industry is a staple of our economy. I am proud today my colleagues in the House joined me in recognizing the important role the outdoor recreation industry plays in contributing to job creation and the overall health of our economy.”
11.04.2016	Washington, DC – In response to the ongoing tensions between law enforcement and the communities they serve, today Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Susan Brooks (R-IN), and Doug Collins (R-GA) – all members of the Policing Strategies Working Group – released the following statement calling for peace as we work together as a country to regain trust and rebuild police-community relationships that have deteriorated: The statistics are alarming. Last year, Baltimore saw its bloodiest year on the books with 344 homicides. And with over 600 homicides reported so far this year, violent crime in Chicago is expected to spike by more than 70 percent by the close of 2016. Altogether, violent crime in America is projected to rise by 13 percent by year’s end. The trail of violent crime is tragically clear: where there is loss of life, there are deteriorating police-community relations. This past July we came together to form the Policing Strategies Working Group with the shared goal of protecting the sons, daughters, loved ones, and friends who are the faces and the names behind these numbers. As elected leaders from all corners of the United States, we represent constituents from regions north and south, west and east, rural and urban, and from all racial backgrounds. Like the beautiful country we call home, we are rich with different histories, interests, and backgrounds. However, we share a bond that no electoral lines can splinter – the human bond. We are one family living on this earth. As Americans – as people – we all want safe neighborhoods, the fair and just rule of law, and peace. When we lose sight of these common goals and the ties that bind us as humans, we risk losing the very things we are fighting to protect. Our life here is fragile, a temporary gift, let’s use this blessing of life to work toward a future of peace and prosperity for our children. We are committed to examining the issues fueling the tension threatening our communities. We are visiting neighborhoods where trust is low and not only listening to opposing voices but learning how individuals live. We are doing our best to walk in each other’s shoes - and that’s what you must do, too. In many neighborhoods across America healing will be no easy task, but the stakes are too high to pursue any other path. As Dr. Martin Luther King said, “We must all learn to live together as brothers and sisters or we will all perish together as fools.”
10.31.2016	Washington, DC – On the eve of a meeting between Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU), Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) led a letter urging both parties to continue discussing an extension of their current contract covering operations at the 29 West Coast container ports. Although the current contract does not expire until 2019, the last time the contract expired in 2014 there was no resolution until 2015. The result was a prolonged dispute that led to backups at ports along the West Coast and an estimated $7 billion of impacts to the U.S. economy. “During the 2014-2015 disruption at the 29 West Coast ports, our growers were forced to dump spoiled produce, our manufacturers were delayed waiting for necessary parts, and our retailers were faced with empty shelves. The impact was not simply limited to the West Coast, but was ultimately felt by communities across the country and the larger economy,” wrote the representatives. “We urge you to come to a resolution, so that we can all avoid this same outcome and the repeat of these devastating stories.” The full text of the letter can be found, HERE. Related Links: Reichert, Coffman, Radewagen, Newhouse Introduce PORTS Act Reichert, Newhouse Urge Longshoremen, Port Operators to Find Common Ground to Prevent Port Disruptions Rep. Reichert Urges Colleagues to Prevent Future Port Slowdowns Reichert, Schrader, and 80+ House Members Urge Ports Resolution Pacific Northwest Members of Congress Call on President to Urge Ports Resolution
10.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Denny Heck (WA-10) today announced that Washington has been awarded a $2.7 million US Department of Labor ApprenticeshipUSA State Expansion Grant to boost apprenticeships in the state. The announcement comes after the Members threw their support behind Washington’s application in a letter to the U.S. Department of Labor last month. “The need for highly-skilled workers in Washington is significant, especially given our robust aerospace industry,” the Members wrote. “We ask that you give full and fair consideration to Washington state’s grant application and look forward to working with you on a federal level to promote apprenticeships and expand the skills of our workforce.” The state expansion grant program exists to help states develop and implement comprehensive strategies to support apprenticeship expansion to new sectors and underserved populations, as well as enhance state capacity to conduct outreach and work with employers to start new programs. Washington state’s application aims to use apprenticeships to help increase the number of people in the state who are able to find and maintain good jobs – especially people in disadvantaged populations – and help close the skill gaps that employers need, especially in manufacturing industries.
10.18.2016	Washington, DC - House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement regarding today’s announcement from the United States Trade Representative that China has ended discriminatory tax exemptions for certain Chinese-produced aircraft. This decision came after the United States brought World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement proceedings against China. “America is home to the greatest manufacturers and workforce in the world, and we know that when our businesses compete on a level playing field, they win. Thank you to Ambassador Froman and his team for their commitment to enforcing the rules and standing up for the aerospace workers and businesses in my home state of Washington. The elimination of China's discriminatory tax on imported aircraft is a significant victory for American businesses and workers. We must continue taking actions to hold our trading partners accountable and give our companies the chance to succeed."
10.14.2016	Washington, DC - Today, House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) invited American businesses to apply for temporary duty suspensions and reductions at the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). In a letter to their Congressional colleagues, the Ways and Means Members outlined specifically how American businesses and manufacturers who have had to pay expensive tariffs for certain products not made in the United States can now benefit from the new process established by the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) of 2016. “Starting today, American businesses have until December 12, 2016, to file petitions at the ITC for a temporary duty suspension or reduction. Filing a petition at the ITC is the only way to pursue eligibility for this relief,” the Members wrote. American businesses that want to apply for this relief should visit https://www.usitc.gov/mtbinfo.htm. CLICK HERE for more information on the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) of 2016. Excerpts of the Letter: “Earlier this year, the House passed by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 415-2 and the Senate passed by unanimous consent the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (AMCA) of 2016. This new law will lower costs for American manufacturers who have had to pay expensive tariffs for certain products not made in the United States, unnecessarily increasing their costs and making them less competitive. The AMCA creates an open and transparent process to provide relief for such manufacturers through temporary duty suspensions and reductions, making it easier for them to sell their products, grow their businesses, create jobs, and invest in their communities. This new process is fully consistent with the letter and intent of all House Rules and related guidance. “The AMCA process commences today at the International Trade Commission (ITC), an independent, nonpartisan agency charged by the statute with conducting the petition process and making recommendations to Congress. Starting today, American businesses have until December 12, 2016, to file petitions at the ITC for a temporary duty suspension or reduction. Filing a petition at the ITC is the only way to pursue eligibility for this relief. “The only entities eligible to file petitions are members of the public who meet the definition of a ‘likely beneficiary’ of the requested duty suspension or reduction. This term is defined in the statute as ‘an individual or entity likely to utilize, or benefit directly from the utilization of, an article that is the subject of a petition for a duty suspension or reduction.' “After petitions are filed, the ITC will commence a public comment procedure in January 2017 and then will begin its evaluation. “In evaluating each petition, the ITC will determine whether it meets the following tests: (1) there is no objection by a ‘domestic producer’ of the merchandise, as defined in the statute; (2) it is administrable; (3) the estimated loss in revenue does not exceed $500,000 per calendar year; and (4) the benefit is available to any person importing the article. The ITC may make recommendations for technical corrections and modifications to a petition so that it meets these tests. “The ITC will then make its final recommendations to Congress, which are due in the summer of 2017. At that point, Congress may then consider legislation providing for tariff relief only for those petitions for which the ITC made a positive recommendation. “In the event that you receive inquiries from constituents, please refer them to the very thorough ITC website ‘MTB Info Page': https://www.usitc.gov/mtbinfo.htm. This page contains the links to file a petition, a handbook on filing procedures, a ‘Before You File’ manual, and answers to frequently asked questions. In addition, the page contains the portal required by the enhanced transparency requirements of the new statute to allow the public to follow the process in detail, including access to all petitions, public comments, and ITC report. Finally, the Ways & Means website contains further information: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/competitive/.”
10.07.2016	Washington, DC – As the Wall Street Journal reported, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, and Reps. Juan Vargas (D-CA), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Grace Meng (D-NY) sent a letter to United States Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman, expressing their opposition to Iran’s potential World Trade Organization (WTO) membership and asking for more information regarding the Administration’s position. The Members wrote, “As Iran remains the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism and continues to be a destabilizing force in the Middle East, maintaining our robust sanctions regime is critical. Iran must be held responsible for its actions, and our ability to impose sanctions is vital in deterring Iran from engaging in nefarious activities.” To read the full letter, click HERE.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) introduced a resolution expressing support for a stable and sustainable funding source for the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) Program. The THCGME program is dedicated entirely to training primary-care physicians and dentists in community-based settings to help fill shortages of primary-care clinicians across the country. “Too many families in rural communities are struggling to access the health care they need due to a shortage of primary care physicians. The doctor shortage threatens the health of the over 46 million Americans who call rural regions of the country home, including Ellensburg and Chelan in my home state of Washington. Community Health Centers play a critical role in meeting this need,” said Rep. Reichert. “It only makes sense that we should be training our future doctors in the setting where we need them most – and that’s what the THCGME does. It has a proven track record of attracting and retaining high-quality medical professionals in underserved areas. I urge my colleagues in Congress to join us in supporting the THCGME program and provide it with the resources necessary to serve our communities.” “In communities across America, there is a growing need for more primary care providers,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “By training primary care providers in diverse settings, the Teaching Health Center program expands access to health services in rural and underserved urban communities. This important program deserves continued Congressional support.” “Bringing more general family practice doctors, OBGYNs, and psychiatrists to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities. Recruiting and developing the next generation of medical providers in our community starts with securing the funding and building the facilities needed to attract more doctors to our area,” said House Republican Conference Chair Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “One way to do this is by continuing the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) Program. The program has helped recruit 60 percent more medical residents to Eastern Washington in the last two years, and the resolution my colleagues and I introduced today continues the success teaching health centers, including the Spokane Teaching Health Center, have achieved to help grow our medical community and provide better, faster care to our rural communities.” “The benefits of Teaching Health Centers are widespread. They give aspiring primary care physicians – who are so crucial to providing personalized preventative care and ensuring health concerns are caught and treated early – the opportunity to train in a diverse setting,” said Rep Tsongas. “And as I have seen in my own district at exceptional facilities like the Greater Lawrence Family Health Center, Teaching Health Centers provide communities with the next generation of physicians for their area. The residency program at the Greater Lawrence Family Health Center has trained 161 family physicians, more than 73% of whom work in underserved communities and 32% in community health centers. Last year, I led a bipartisan effort for two years of funding for the Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education program and am proud to join Reps. Reichert, Blumenauer, and McMorris Rodgers to make that funding permanent.” This is what people in the medical community are saying about H.Res.899: “Because of its strong emphasis on meeting current physician workforce needs and providing access to primary care in medically underserved areas, the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education Program is critical to the future of our nation’s health. This program is of particular importance to osteopathic medical education, as most currently-funded medical residency programs are osteopathic or dually-accredited (DO/MD). AACOM applauds Representative Reichert’s efforts to support this bipartisan program that is critical to ensure the stability and continuity of the nation’s primary care training programs in community-based settings while simultaneously delivering health care services to underserved communities most in need.” -Stephen C. Shannon, DO, MPH, AACOM President and CEO “The AAFP appreciates Reps. Dave Reichert, Earl Blumenauer, Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Niki Tsongas for sponsoring a bipartisan resolution of support for sustaining the Teaching Health Center GME program. This important program is dedicated entirely to training new primary care physicians -- two-thirds of whom are training in family medicine. Research shows that family physicians tend to practice where they are trained, which is why continued support of this program is important to addressing our national shortage in primary care." – John Meigs, MD, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians "We are grateful that Representative Reichert, who represents the first rural THC funded clinic, in Ellensburg, Washington, is taking this action to provide Congressional support for sustaining this important federal program. The Teaching Health Center (THC) program has been a significant tool for addressing the primary care physician shortage in the Yakima and Ellensburg areas of Washington state, and nationally. Community Health of Central Washington provides quality healthcare through service and education and the THC program plays an important part in supporting it.” - Russell G. Maier, MD, FAAFP, program director of the Central Washington Family Medicine Residency "Speaking for the nation’s first community health center-sponsored residency program, I commend the efforts of our own Rep. Nikki Tsongas, a stalwart advocate for healthcare access for our patients. We so appreciate her joining Representatives Reichert, Blumenauer, and McMorris Rodgers in introducing this resolution, recognizing that a stable and sustainable funding source is needed for the long-term survival of the THC program." - Joseph Gravel, MD, Chair of Family Medicine & Community Health/ Chief Medical Officer of the Greater Lawrence Family Health Center
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after Congress passed a continuing resolution (CR), which will keep the government funded through December 9, 2016. “I am proud my House and Senate colleagues agreed to put politics aside and acted in the best interest of our national security and the American people. Veterans, seniors, our troops, vulnerable members of society, and our economic stability all depend on a government that is open and fully operating. I see it as my privilege and duty to make sure these needs are met,” said Rep. Reichert. “Although a continuing resolution is not a long term solution, I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle over these coming months to pass a comprehensive funding bill that strengthens our economy, addresses our communities’ needs, and keeps the government running.” ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, applauded the World Trade Organization’s announcement regarding the United States’ longstanding dispute with the European Union (EU) and four of its member States regarding subsidies to Airbus. The WTO found that the EU and four of its member States illegally subsidized Airbus to the sum of nearly $22 billion, depriving Boeing of the sale of hundreds of aircraft and potential aerospace employees in Washington State the chance at a good-paying job. This was the largest trade ruling from WTO in history. Chairman Reichert participated in a press call announcing the report with Ambassador Froman and his Washington state delegation colleagues and made the following statement: "We know that American businesses and workers win when competition is fair," said Chairman Reichert. "Today's confirmation that the EU continues to illegally subsidize aircraft and must be held accountable is not only a huge victory for the United States and the over 260,000 workers employed by the aerospace industry in my home state of Washington, but it is a win for the rule of law and for all those who believe that trade rules are critical to empowering U.S. workers and consumers to compete in the 21st Century economy. Thank you to USTR for its dedication over many years to providing a level playing field for American workers." Additional Background Information: In June 2011, the WTO found that the EU and four of its member States (Germany, France, the UK, and Spain) conferred more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to Airbus and had caused Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and to lose market share throughout the world. In fact, in looking at the effect of the EU subsidies, the Appellate Body agreed with the Panel that "[w]ithout the subsidies, Airbus would not have existed... and there would be no Airbus aircraft on the market. None of the sales that the subsidized Airbus made would have occurred." In contrast, the WTO rejected the EU assertion in the EU's counter-complaint that U.S. subsidies were responsible for the viability of Boeing's large civil aircraft production. The Boeing Company is the only American producer of large civil aircraft and is the largest single U.S. exporter. Boeing employs more than 157,000 people, including nearly 80,000 in Washington State and 15,000 in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District. Boeing sold $31.8 billion worth of commercial aircraft in 2010. It is the largest American manufacturer of commercial jetliners.
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, participated in President Obama’s final Export Council meeting at the White House. The Export Council has served as the nation’s principal advisory committee on international trade where members discussed issues impacting American exporters, workers, and our nation’s economy. Chairman Reichert was first appointed as a member of the President’s Export Council in 2010. Today, Chairman Reichert thanked the entire council and discussed the need to find a path forward for the Trans-Pacific Partnership. “It has been an honor and a privilege to sit at the same table as the President and members of his cabinet as well as some of our country’s greatest innovators and individuals who are committed to growing American jobs,” said Chairman Reichert. “During our time together, we have seen successes that have improved the lives of everyday Americans, better enabled our exporters to compete on the world stage, and given our farmers, workers and businesses new opportunities. To name a few successes, we passed free trade agreements with Panama, Colombia, and Korea, fought for the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, and moved Trade Promotion Authority and Trade Adjustment Assistance through Congress.” “But our work is not done. We must ensure the Export-Import Bank is fully functioning and we must continue to set the record straight on the benefits of strong free trade agreements (FTAs). At the same time, the Administration must pursue solutions that move FTAs with strong potential – like the Trans-Pacific Partnership – across the finish line.”
09.11.2016	September 11, 2001. It was supposed to be a celebratory day. On September 10th, Detective Tom Jensen handed me test results from DNA samples found on three of the first Green River serial murder victims. All three of them were linked to Gary Ridgway. That day was the first step in closing the largest serial murder case in our country. But on the morning of 9-11 my plans – and the world – changed. We were now also working with Washington State law enforcement agencies and the Terrorism Task Force to protect all critical infrastructure in our communities. In a cowardly act driven by evil and ignorance, 19 men took the lives of nearly 3,000 fathers, mothers, sons, daughters, colleagues, and loved ones. For months, our first responders and volunteer civilians would work to remove the debris from the once congested streets and our nation would work to rebuild, while continuing to mourn the lives lost and honor the bravery so many showed that day. Fifteen years later, the fear and the threat of terrorism on the home front are still real and present. Our men and women in the military, intelligence professionals, law enforcement officers, and all first responders have worked tirelessly – often putting their lives on the line – to keep Americans safe as extremists continue to wage war on the freedoms this country stands for. We must continue to put our full support behind them and remember that we are strongest when we stand shoulder to shoulder together as one country, as one people. And most of all, we must never forget the faces and the names of the victims whose lives were cut short that day.
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and of the Subcommittee on State Department and Foreign Operations, today praised the House of Representative’s passage of H.R. 4481, the Education for All Act, which they introduced. “For the millions of children living in poverty, especially in conflict-affected regions and sub-Saharan Africa, access to an education is their best chance of growing up to live a healthy, productive, and stable life,” said Reichert. “By giving children in the most desperate situations the tools to think for themselves, care for their families, and give back to their communities, we are not only doing what is right, we are laying the groundwork for greater peace and stability around the world.” “With millions of children currently out of school, and even more who are not learning despite being in school, we must be tireless in our efforts to expand access and increase quality in classrooms across the globe,” said Lowey. “Without access to basic education, these children will not have the skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, and contribute positively to their communities. If we fill their hands with books and their heads with knowledge, we can ensure they are less vulnerable to hunger, poverty, disease, abuse, and extremism. That is why helping to educate children in developing nations and conflict-affected countries is not only the right thing to do, it is a critical economic and national security priority.” The Education for All Act, which passed the House today, would: Establish as U.S. policy the promotion of quality basic education by working with other countries, multilateral organizations, international and local civil society organizations, and other major donors to assist developing countries in strengthening their educational systems and ensuring all children have access to school; Require a comprehensive U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest and most vulnerable children worldwide; and Improve coordination and oversight of the US Agency for International Development’s basic education programs by designating a “Senior Coordinator” within the Agency tasked with developing and monitoring the education strategy; coordinating policy with other agencies, donors, and international organizations; and reporting to Congress on program implementation. The 2012 attack on education activist Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban in Pakistan and the kidnapping of hundreds of Nigerian girls by the terrorist organization Boko Haram in April 2014 remain painful reminders of the barriers to education so many youth face around the world. Here are the startling facts about the state of international basic education today: Approximately 59 million primary-school-aged children and 65 million adolescents are out of school. Half of the children in the world do not have access to preschool. 250 million children are not learning basic skills in reading, writing, and math or are dropping out before the fourth grade. More than 100 million youth cannot read or write. Nearly two-thirds of the world's 751 million illiterate adults are women. An estimated 98 percent of children with disabilities under the age of 18 do not attend school. Roughly half, or 28.5 million, of the world's out-of-school children live in countries affected by conflict and crisis. The Reichert-Lowey Education for All Act would ensure the United States continues to lead efforts with international organizations, foreign leaders, and other donors to increase global access to quality education. A Senate version of the Education for All Act was introduced by Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), Susan Collins (R-ME), Edward Markey (D-MA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) in July. It has been referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where it awaits consideration. ###
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Danny Davis (D-IL), Tom Reed (R-NY) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today introduced the Improving Employment Outcomes for Foster Youth Act (H.R. 5947) which provides federal tax incentives to private sector employers who hire youth transitioning from the foster care system to independence. The Improving Employment Outcomes for Foster Youth Act will make transition age foster youth categorically eligible for the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC), an existing federal credit that provides incentives to businesses to hire employees from certain populations with specific employment challenges. In doing so, this bill will help encourage employers to hire and invest in our nation’s foster youth and starting them on a successful career path. “One of the best gifts you can give someone is hope for a better future – and that is exactly what this bill does,” said Rep. Reichert. “Our foster children have endured hardships most kids never have to face and can be at a disadvantage when entering the job market. By giving them the tools to be independent, this bill helps provide foster youths with the opportunity to live productive and successful lives.” “The outcomes for transition age foster youth in this country is heartbreaking: nearly half are unemployed at age 24; half will spend time in a homeless shelter; and 70% will be reliant on government assistance after emancipating from foster care. The federal government has both an economic and moral interest in improving this grim reality for foster youth. In 2008, Congress passed the Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act, which recognized the challenges faced by youth transitioning out of foster care by enabling them to continue to receive support services until they turn 21. In authoring that bill my goal was not to extend dependency on the foster care system, but rather to use the additional time spent in extended foster care to help these youth become independent. While extended foster care is providing a critical lifeline for thousands of youth across the country, more needs to be done to help these youth connect with career opportunities and attain self-sufficiency,” said Congressman Jim McDermott. “Our proposal seeks to expand opportunities to work for our foster youth who have already overcome so many challenges. Investing in the success of our foster children will not only reduce unemployment, but will also lessen homelessness, incarceration and other negative outcomes that cost society much, much more,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett. “We care about our foster kids and want to give them every opportunity to reach their highest potential. This bill is part of that process. This proposal provides a simple adjustment that encourages businesses to hire these kids, which breaks a cycle of dependence, and often a lifetime of poverty. It’s only right that we do our part to stand with our foster kids as they mature into adulthood and enter the workforce. As a member of the Congressional Foster Care Caucus, we are proud to support the bill,” said Congressman Tom Reed. H.R. 5947 is strongly supported by a number of prominent national organizations, including iFoster, the Food Marketing Institute, the John Burton Foundation, Public Counsel, the Alliance for Children’s Rights, and the County Welfare Directors Association of California. Senator Bob Casey filed companion legislation in the Senate. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In honor of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) 100th Anniversary, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, commended the Commission’s work to provide Americans and policymakers with information on how our trade policies impact the American people and economy. Most recently, Congress voted to establish a new process at the ITC for tariff relief for American manufacturers. “Over the past century, lawmakers have relied on the ITC as a dependable and unbiased source to help guide Congress in building a trade agenda that lifts up American businesses, consumers, and workers,” said Rep. Reichert. “Through the years, Americans have felt the benefits of trade. We have seen greater opportunities for our small businesses seeking to sell more of their products and for our families working to provide for their loved ones. As the global economy continues to develop and grow, the Commission will continue to be a key source of information that we need to pursue trade policies to strengthen our economy and empower Americans. Congratulations to the ITC and its staff for reaching this milestone and thank you for your century-long commitment to trade.”
08.04.2016	Washington, DC - In the wake of the tragedies in Baton Rouge, Falcon Heights, and Dallas, Rep. Dave Reichert and Rep. John Lewis decided we need a new approach to ease police-community tensions and formed an unlikely partnership: African American Democrat civil rights leader and Caucasian Republican 33-year law enforcement veteran. Please find the below joint OpEd by Reps. Reichert and Lewis published in The Hill newspaper about the importance of reminding ourselves that we are on the same team and focusing on our common goal of keeping our neighborhoods safe. Civil rights leader and veteran sheriff form unlikely partnership By Rep. Dave Reichert (R-Wash.) and Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) This August, over 500 of America's most capable and accomplished athletes will march into the Maracana Stadium together during the 2016 Rio Summer Olympics opening ceremony under the banner of the American flag. On the playing field, the backgrounds of these athletes do not matter. They are each other's support, friends, and teammates. They are all Americans. The camaraderie, love, and unity we celebrate during the Olympics is America at its best and is the America we hope to experience in cities, neighborhoods, and households around our country. However, nothing can obscure the suffering caused by the recent deaths in Baton Rouge, Falcon Heights, and Dallas--as well as the anxiety produced by the protests that surrounded them. All of the turmoil leads us to wonder about the future of our country. As elected leaders, the burden is on us to set an example that looks past politics and considers above all what is best for our nation as a whole. That is why two unlikely partners -- a Democratic African American civil rights leader and a Republican Caucasian law enforcement veteran -- have come together to say enough is enough. The stakes are too high: the inestimable cost of human life and the intricate, interwoven fabric of our society. To ensure our struggle does not lead our nation to tear apart at the seams, we are left with only one viable choice: We must find a way to build a bridge toward dialogue, civility, transformation and ultimate peace. Traveling this path together begins with the recognition that we all share the same goal. Everyone wants to live securely, knowing that their loved ones are safe in their own communities. It is the only way we can achieve the mutual respect and understanding that is central to any beloved community and is the foundation of a civil society. We need to walk in each other’s shoes. In many neighborhoods across America, the wounds are deep and the fault lines are wide. It will take time and hard work to regain the trust and civility that has been lost or to build these attributes where they never existed before. But it must begin and end by realizing we are one people, one family, the human family. We all live in one house, the American house, the world house. But if a veteran law enforcement officer and a veteran activist, a Democrat and a Republican, a Southerner from the Southeast and a Northerner from the Northwest can commit to work together for the common good, you can too. We must all learn to live together as brothers and sisters, as Dr. Martin Luther King said, or we will all perish together as fools. We can do it. We must do it.
07.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), former Sheriff of King County, WA and a 33 year veteran of law enforcement, made the following statement in response to the fatal shootings of at least three law enforcement officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. “My heart breaks for the families and loved ones of the officers who lost their lives while working to protect the Baton Rouge community,” said Rep. Reichert. “And I pray for those who are being treated for their injuries and all of the men and women in blue in the Baton Rouge Police Department. Our country is in desperate need of healing. We must come together and recognize that we are all on the same team – we all want to feel respected and rest assured that our loved ones are safe. Building safer communities begins and ends with building this trust."
07.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), who served in law enforcement for 33 years, including eight years as Sheriff of King County, WA, today announced his participation in a working group to examine police accountability, aggression towards law enforcement, and public safety concerns related to these issues. The bipartisan working group will hold a series of roundtables, starting with a private roundtable in Washington, D.C., to candidly discuss the issues fueling excessive force used by law enforcement and attacks against police officers. Outside leaders will also be invited to meet with the working group. Rep. Reichert issued the statement below on the formation of this working group: “I understand that in many neighborhoods across America, the wounds are deep and the rift is wide. It will take time and hard work to regain the trust and civility that has been lost. It must begin and end by recognizing that we are all on the same team,” said Rep. Reichert. “ I believe that by working with my colleagues on this working group and challenging ourselves to focus on our aligned goal of keeping our communities safe, crime in our cities will decline and lives of young men and women will be saved.” The working group is chaired by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI). Additional members of the working group include: Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Will Hurd (R-Texas), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.). The first private roundtable will be held on Thursday, July 14, 2016. The working group has invited Reverend Doctor DeForest B. Suares, Jr., the Senior Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, New Jersey, and Deborah A. Ramirez, the Executive Director for Partnering for Prevention and Community Safety Initiative and Professor of Law at Northeastern University School of Law, to participate. ###
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), a twice elected sheriff of King County and law enforcement veteran of over 30 years, made the following statement after the tragic murder of five police officers in Dallas, TX on Thursday night. “Last night we saw the cowardly and targeted murder of five Dallas police officers. Today, when a police officer puts on his or her uniform, he or she is not just getting ready for work – they are exposing themselves to threats they would not face otherwise,” said Rep. Reichert. “Our law enforcement officers are now being targeted while on the job trying to keep our communities safe. These officers were killed while protecting Americans’ First Amendment right to protest peacefully. They – and law enforcement around the country – are the guardians of our democracy and critical to the safety of our loved ones. We cannot let this deterioration between law enforcement and communities continue. We must come together to end the violence in this country. As the city of Dallas and the loved ones of the fallen try to process this terrible tragedy, please send them your thoughts and prayers and pray for the officers who are still recovering from their injuries.” ###
06.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, joined the five other Ways and Means Subcommittee Chairmen and several other colleagues in introducing legislation to deter American companies from doing business with foreign partners that threaten our national security. The No Dollars for Ayatollahs Act and the Preventing Investment in Terrorist Regimes Act were introduced by Reps. Peter Roskam (R-IL) and Charles Boustany (R-LA), respectively, to discourage American companies from doing business with state sponsors of terrorism by doubling the tax rate on income from sales to these countries, removing the President’s ability to waive such provisions, and by placing a tax on individuals facilitating dollar clearing transactions for Iran. “Since first opening offices in Washington State 100 years ago, Boeing has been a leader in ingenuity, education, and job creation in our region. It is extremely concerning and disappointing to see a company that has done so much good make a decision that could jeopardize our national security,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is no secret that Iran has a long history of supporting terrorist organizations intent on harming Americans and our allies. Iran should not be rewarded for this behavior, and American companies should play no part in making it easier for them to carry out activities that threaten our national security. These bills support our security by minimizing the profits companies can make when doing business with Iran.” Prior to finalization of the business deal, Rep. Reichert led fellow members of the Washington Delegation, Reps. Cathy McMorris Rogers and Dan Newhouse, in sending a letter to Boeing President, Dennis A. Muilenburg and Airbus President, Fabrice Brégier, urging the aircraft manufacturers to reconsider potential sales of airplanes, parts, and other aircraft-related services to Iran. ###
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. House Republicans published their agenda for the Tax Reform Tax Force, which outlines a blueprint for a simpler, fairer, flatter, pro-growth tax code. Over the past several months, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) worked closely with his colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee and Speaker Paul D. Ryan to put together a plan that addresses some of the leading economic concerns among American families and businesses. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the Task Force was made public: “This is the first step toward a modern day tax code that puts Americans first by making it simple and fair for families who need to take home more of their hard-earned money and deserve a government and IRS that is working for them,” said Rep. Reichert. “The plan takes bold steps to allow our businesses large and small to compete and succeed in the global economy. American companies with American workers leading the way in the global market and selling our products around the world is exactly what our economy needs to grow and create even more jobs here at home. Today, we’re starting down the path toward achieving that goal.” The Tax Reform Tax Force is one of six platforms House Republicans have worked on to outline their vision for a stronger, more confident America. The entire agenda, called A Better Way, can be found at better.gop. ###
06.22.2016	If you travel just a stone’s throw away from downtown Wenatchee, the business-lined streets soon turn into farmland, with countless apple, cherry, and pear trees and grape vines spanning both sides of the road. One of those farms belongs to the family-run, Foreman Fruit Co. Wenatchee resident Dale Foreman bought a plot of land and began growing cherries, apples, and pears over 30 years ago. When he and his wife Gail first started out, they expected to learn everything there was to know about apple varieties, prime planting and picking seasons, and soil quality — and they certainly did. But what they also learned is that the success of a small, family-owned farm in Eastern Washington directly depends not just on fluid trade between county or state lines but on trade with the international community. Like many other agricultural producers in Washington state and around the country, Dale and his family export their produce to countries around the world. Last year alone, U.S. agriculture exports were worth more than $140 billion, making America the world’s leading agricultural exporter. With over $90 billion in annual exports and 40 percent of our jobs tied to trade, Washington State has especially benefited from trade with foreign markets. Our specialty crop growers in the Pacific Northwest like Dale and his family, export about a third of their crop of apples, pears, and cherries. While our agriculture sector certainly benefits from the direct export of fresh fruit, other industries in Washington are using high-quality Washington crops for further processing and the creation of products for sale abroad, like Washington’s world famous breweries and wineries. Take for example, Schooner EXACT Brewing Co. in Seattle, which uses Washington-grown barley and hops for its internationally acclaimed craft beer. With ingenuity and a belief in their product, Heather McClung, co-owner of the company, tapped into a growing demand for craft beer in Tokyo, Japan. This has helped her company raise its national and international profile, sell more product, diversify its sales, and hire more people. For the beer industry more broadly, U.S. beer exports have grown by over 14 percent over the last five years. While international trade has already presented many opportunities for the agricultural industry in Washington and around the country, there are still significant barriers preventing farmers from expanding, hiring more employees, and reaching their full potential. Last week, Dale and Heather joined me at a Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing in Washington, D.C., on the importance of expanding trade for our agricultural producers and how American agriculture has benefited from past trade agreements. In his testimony, Dale told lawmakers about both the limitations and potential of exporting to countries in the Asia-Pacific region. For example, Japan is already one of America’s top 10 customers for cherries, but without the current 9 percent tariff it places on U.S. cherry imports, American farmers would see their cherry business increase significantly. We have already seen this with South Korea. Prior to the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), U.S. cherry growers faced a 24 percent tariff. KORUS eliminated this tariff. And in the year after the agreement entered into force, cherry exports to Korea nearly doubled and have continued to grow, making Korea our third largest market for cherries. Comprehensive free trade agreements not only strengthen our agriculture industry, they also benefit the entire economy — both rural and urban. When a grower sells more apples, more workers are needed to pick those apples, additional drivers are needed to transport the apples from the orchard to the packing house, more workers are needed to package the apples, and the chain continues until they are placed on a shelf in a country on the other side of the Pacific. With Washington fruit and vegetable exporters facing an average of over 50 percent tariffs when trying to sell abroad, the Wenatchee Valley, Cashmere, Chelan and other farming communities in our region have much to gain from lower tariffs. Along with knocking down tariffs, trade agreements help ensure that our growers don’t face other barriers, like regulations based on protectionism rather than science, which block access to foreign markets. Eliminating all of these barriers through trade agreements is essential for American agricultural producers to sell to the world’s expanding markets. And making sure that our trade agreements have solid enforcement tools so that trading partners will implement their obligations is essential. But a trade agreement is not good just because it is a trade agreement. As a state that relies heavily on exports, Washington understands the difference between a high-standard agreement and one that falls short of expectations. That is why, as chairman of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, I will continue to advocate for comprehensive, fully enforceable trade agreements that tear down barriers for U.S. agricultural producers. Rep. Dave Reichert represents Washington’s 8th Congressional District and is the first member from Washington to chair the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade.
06.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to Boeing’s announcement that it signed a multi-billion dollar business deal with the Islamic Republic of Iran. The aerospace manufacturer’s business agreement is the largest between the U.S. and Iran since 1979. “I am disappointed a company that has given so much to our region and the country through its ingenuity and leadership has decided to sign a deal with Iran, who continues to be the world’s largest state-sponsor of terror and has proven time and time again to be undeserving of our trust,” said Rep. Reichert. “Companies doing business with Iran should keep in mind the enormous risk to the American people and our allies." ###
06.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the terrible tragedy in Orlando, Florida early Sunday morning. “I send my deepest condolences to the victims’ families as they struggle to manage the news of the tragic and senseless loss of their loved ones' lives and pray the injured make a speedy and full recovery. As we face increasing threats here at home and abroad, we must come together as a country to make our communities and the world a safer and more peaceful place to live."
06.10.2016	Washington, DC – This week, members of the Washington Delegation, Reps. Dave Reichert, Jim McDermott, Rick Larsen, Derek Kilmer, Denny Heck, Suzan DelBene, and Adam Smith introduced H.R. 5417, the bipartisan Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act, which would ensure the annual funds collected through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are used to support our ports and strengthen our region’s global competitiveness. Members of the Washington Delegation released the following statement after introducing the bill. “As one of the most trade-dependent states in the country, Washington is heavily reliant on the efficient movement of goods, and our ports play a critical role in that process. For too long the Harbor Maintenance Tax has placed Washington ports at a significant economic disadvantage by incentivizing shippers to deliver U.S.-bound goods through Canada and Mexico. With 40 percent of jobs in Washington tied to trade, we simply cannot afford to continue allowing this to happen. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act would give our ports the resources and level-playing field they need to compete by ensuring the tax collected is available for infrastructure investments and by allowing donor ports to provide rebates to shippers and importers.” “The HMT threatens thousands of middle class jobs in our region and hurts Washington businesses that depend on Northwest Seaport Alliance facilities by diverting cargo from Puget Sound ports to ports in Canada,” said Port of Seattle Commission President John Creighton. “This legislation will provide us with tools to grow our cargo volumes, protect jobs and keep our gateway competitive.” This bipartisan bill will introduce a degree of equity into the HMT system that has long been lacking,” said Connie Bacon, President of the Port of Tacoma Commission. “By allowing our ports to finally receive a fair return, this proposal will help The Northwest Seaport Alliance maintain a competitive trade gateway for manufacturers and growers throughout the state.” Washington State Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell have also introduced a companion bill, S. 2729 in the U.S. Senate. Specifically, the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act: Establishes full use of the annual Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) to support the operation and maintenance of our ports and harbors. Makes permanent provisions to allow for expanded uses of the HMTF for donor ports and energy transfer ports. Makes permanent the 10 percent set-aside for small ports. ###
06.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Tuesday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) along with members of the House Washington State Delegation, U.S. Reps. Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dennis Heck (D-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), and Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced H.R. 5397, a bill to rename the Olympic Wilderness within Olympic National Park as the “Daniel J. Evans Wilderness,” in honor of former Washington Governor and Senator Dan Evans. Dan Evans served the state of Washington for more than 50 years, including service as a state legislator, governor and United States Senator. During his time in the U.S. Senate, Evans was the lead sponsor of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 which designated over 1.5 million acres of wilderness areas in Washington, including 877,000 acres within Olympic National Park as “the Olympic Wilderness.” The Washington State Delegation released the following statement after introducing the bill: “As a conservationist and an outdoor recreationalist, Sen. Dan Evans understands the importance of protecting Washington State’s natural treasures so they can be enjoyed by future generations. Throughout his distinguished career, he worked tirelessly to preserve our state’s national parks and forests and played a critical role in the passage of the 1984 and 1988 Washington Wilderness Acts. It is only fitting that the name of the Olympic National Park wilderness recognizes the efforts of the man who fought so hard to preserve it.” Washington State Sens. Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray introduced identical companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. ###
06.02.2016	Issaquah, WA – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) held a reception honoring the five high school students who were appointed to one of America’s prestigious service academies after receiving a nomination from the congressman. Receiving a nomination and then earning acceptance at one of the institutions requires students to demonstrate exceptional academic aptitude and leadership skills. Rep. Reichert made the following statement in recognition of their great achievement and sacrifice to country: “The academy appointees from Washington’s Eighth District are some of the brightest and most capable students in the country,” said Congressman Reichert. “With their remarkable achievements, they could have attended almost any school of their choice, but they chose to sacrifice the lifestyle offered at many other academic institutions to serve their country and protect the freedoms we all enjoy. It was an absolute privilege to meet with this year’s appointees and I know they will make our region proud.” The students who received appointments to a service academy from the Washington-8th District are: · Bryce Johnson, Enumclaw – US Air Force Academy – Enumclaw H.S. · Wesley Bayles, Preston – US Military Academy – Issaquah H.S. · Keegan Fitzpatrick, Maple Valley – US Military Academy – Tahoma H.S. · Samuel Humphries, Sammamish – US Military Academy – The Bear Creek School · Reilly Treat, Puyallup – US Naval Academy – Emerald Ridge H.S. For more information about how to apply for a military academy nomination, click HERE.
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Mike Thompson (D-CA), recently introduced the bipartisan Wine Excise Tax Modernization Act of 2016 (H.R. 4934), which supports the growth of wineries and encourages innovation in winemaking by expanding the small producer tax credit for wineries and increasing in the current carbonation limit for still wine. Congressman Reichert made the following statement regarding the legislation: “With over 900 wineries in Washington State and the tens of thousands of workers they employ, the ability of these wineries to grow, succeed and hire is critical to our state’s economy,” said Rep. Reichert. “This bill will help reduce the tax burden on our wineries and complements the efforts of our colleagues to modernize excise taxes for our craft brewers and distillers. Reducing the burdens on these growing industries will lead to the creation of new good-paying jobs for my constituents.” Members of the Washington State wine industry have also voiced their support of the legislation. “We are grateful for the Congressman’s understanding of and focus on the sustainability of the growing Washington wine industry. The vast majority of our wineries are small, family-owned enterprises that battle to keep their bottom line from falling.” - Washington Association of Wine Grape Growers “The Washington Wine Institute (WWI) applauds Congressman Reichert for his leadership in pushing for federal excise tax reform for the hundreds of small wineries through Washington State” said Josh McDonald, WWI’s Executive Director. “The tax reforms proposed in Congressman Reichert’s legislation are long overdue and will be an absolute game-changer for every Washington winery working hard to keep their doors open and find success in a world-wide competitive marketplace. WWI looks forward to working directly with his office and our entire WA delegation to see these tax reforms become real” said McDonald. Specifically, the Wine Excise Tax Modernization Act (H.R. 4934): Simplifies the small producer tax credit and expands eligibility to all producers: This change supports the growth of wineries of all sizes. Under current law, the credit is available to those wineries producing less than 250,000 gallons of wine at a rate of 90 cents on the first 100,000 gallons. The credit is then phased out by 1 percent for each 1,000 gallons produced in excess of 150,000 gallons. This proposal establishes a three-tier system for the credit. For the first 30,000 gallons of wine, it is a 1 dollar per gallon credit. For production of between 30,000 and 130,000 gallons of wine, it is a .90 cent credit. For the production over 130,000 gallons but less than 750,000 gallons, it is a 53.5 cent credit. Under the proposal, the tier system also applies to hard cider – 6.2 cents, 5.6 cents, and 3.3 cents. Increases the allowable carbonation limit for still wine to 6.4 grams/liter: The current limit is preventing wine producers from developing new products for consumers. The Tax Code should not be an impediment to innovation. Eliminates the luxury tax on sparkling wine: The current tax rate for sparkling wine, which is significantly higher than that of still wine, was established after World War II when champagne was viewed as a luxury from France and U.S. consumption was low. It is long past time for this rate to be reduced. Raises the Alcohol-By-Volume (ABV) limit from 14 to 16 percent: Changes in winemaking and vineyard practices have led to a steady increase in the ABV level of table wines, but the Tax Code hasn’t kept pace with these developments. The Wine Excise Tax Modernization Act has been referred to the House Committee on Ways and Means, on which Rep. Reichert serves, for further consideration. For additional information on this legislation: https://wineamerica.org/news/wine-country-congressmen-introduce-bill-to-reduce-wine-excise-taxes. Additionally, Congressman Reichert is a proud cosponsor of the Craft Beverage Modernization and Reform Act (H.R. 2903) that supports the success of breweries and distilleries through reform of federal excise taxes, so that these job-creators can reinvest in their businesses and hire more workers. ###
05.21.2016	Washington, DC - On May 18th, three members of the Washington Delegation, Reps. Dave Reichert, Cathy McMorris Rogers, and Dan Newhouse sent a letter to Boeing President, Dennis A. Muilenburg and Airbus President, Fabrice Brégier, urging the aircraft manufacturers to halt current or reconsider potential sales of airplanes, parts, and other aircraft-related services to the Islamic Republic of Iran. In the letter, the Members explain their concerns about Iran’s continued aggressive behavior, the threat the rogue nation poses to America and our allies, and ask to sit down with representatives of the aerospace companies to further discuss these concerns. After sending the letter, they issued the following statement: “Despite the promises Iran made on condition of implementing the widely opposed Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), recent news reports indicate that Iran continues to test medium-range ballistic missiles that are capable of reaching much of the Middle East, including U.S. military bases and Israel. These most recent acts of aggression are yet another sign that Iran has no intention of moderating its behavior as a result of the nuclear deal. With Airbus already conducting business in Iran and Boeing working with the Administration to begin its own sales, an extremely dangerous precedent is being set for Western companies. We ask both companies to consider the profound moral implications of engaging a nation that has proven time and time again that it cannot be trusted.” To read the full letter, click HERE. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, made the following statement after the International Trade Commission (ITC) published its report on the potential impact the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) would have on the U.S. economy. “I am looking forward to thoroughly reviewing and discussing the ITC report with my colleagues,” said Rep. Reichert. “Today’s report highlights many of the potential positive benefits of the TPP, including spurring economic growth and the creation of good-paying jobs across the country. I am confident that if done right, TPP will help American businesses reach their full potential, give American workers more opportunities, and increase choices while reducing prices for American consumers. However, we are not there yet because there are Member concerns that must be addressed. I will continue to work with Chairman Brady, my colleagues, and the Administration to resolve these concerns, so we can develop a path forward. It is the substance of this work that will determine when there will be Congressional action.” ###
05.17.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chair of the Law Enforcement Task Force, led a hearing, titled “Examining Best Practices to Build Trust Between Law Enforcement and the Communities They Serve.” During the hearing, the Task Force heard from witnesses with law enforcement or community engagement backgrounds to get actionable feedback on what law enforcement departments, communities, and the government must to do strengthen deteriorating relationships between police officers and the people they serve. One of the witnesses was Marvin Charles of the Seattle-based support group for fathers, Divine Alternatives for Dads Services (D.A.D.S.). Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the hearing: “Over the past several years, I have watched as tensions between local police and the communities they serve reached a boiling point, eventually resulting in violence, abuse of property, and tragic fatalities. Unfortunately, this is becoming the new normal and I fear that our law enforcement officers and our neighborhoods will become less safe as a consequence. We, as a country, cannot let this continue. We must return to civility,” said Rep. Reichert. “I believe the diverse and informed set of perspectives we heard from our witnesses today helped give lawmakers, communities, and police departments ideas about best practices that can be adopted across the nation to regain civility and trust between our protectors and the people they serve.” “One of the voices we heard from was my friend and someone I deeply admire, Marvin Charles of D.A.D.S. in Seattle. In another life, Marvin was one of the guys I was looking for out on the streets, but now, he has become an influential force in taking men off the street, teaching them how to be fathers, and reuniting them with their families. Marvin understands that stronger fathers lead to healthier communities and that ensuring children have a loving, stable family life is critical to reducing crime in our communities.” Emphasizing the important role fathers play in building safe communities, Marvin Charles explained during the hearing, “Law enforcement officers see first-hand the legacies of fatherlessness,” said Charles. “Children from fatherless homes often become casualties, victims or offenders themselves. Then, they become challenges for our school systems, social-services programs, drug and alcohol recovery services, law enforcement agencies, and legal and court systems. Our organization seeks to avoid that by working with fathers and their families.” To watch a recording of the hearing, click HERE. Background: On July 29th Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), House Law Enforcement Caucus Co-Chair and former Sheriff of King County, and House Republican Policy Committee Chairman Luke Messer (IN-06) launched the Republican Policy Committee Law Enforcement Task Force. The Task Force is chaired by Rep. Reichert and was formed following several high-profile conflicts across the nation between local law enforcement and the communities they serve – particularly events in Ferguson, MO and Baltimore, MD. Additional Task Force members include: Sen. Roy Blunt (MO) and Reps. Susan Brooks (IN), Jeff Miller (FL), Peter King (NY), Ted Poe (TX), Rich Nugent (FL), Steve Knight (CA), John Katko (NY), and Mia Love (UT). Together, the Task Force members have over 90 years of law enforcement experience. The Task Force includes 4 former law enforcement officers, 2 former U.S. attorneys, 1 former judge, and 1 former mayor. The Law Enforcement Task Force has held hearings, meetings, and roundtables to examine the primary drivers of the recent tensions between police and community through hearings, roundtable discussions, and meetings with key stakeholders. The Task Force will share their findings and recommendations with Congress and the public. ###
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a total of 18 bipartisan bills to address the nationwide opioid epidemic that is impacting countless American families. “Opioid addiction is a tragedy that knows no distinctions of political party, religion, income level, or race. The crisis has torn apart families and destroyed the potential of the 46,000 lives that are taken every year as a result of drug and opioid overdoses. And Washington State is not immune. We have seen a surge in opioid and heroin addiction that if not addressed, will only continue to escalate and take more lives,” said Rep. Reichert. “The good news is that Congress has come together and recognized the urgent need to act to get this crisis under control. This week, we passed legislation that will better educate doctors about how to prescribe opioids and will strengthen our nation’s drug laws to help end the illegal flow of opioids throughout our region and the country.” Congressman Reichert has two grandchildren who were adopted from the Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC) as drug addicted babies. He recently sat down with KIRO7 News to discuss his involvement with PICC and the important work they do to support mothers suffering with drug addiction and to ensure that their children can grow into healthy and strong adults. ###
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), who served in law enforcement for 33 years, held a Special Order on the House floor in honor of Peace Officers Memorial Day and National Police Week, which is a federal holiday dedicated to paying tribute to law enforcement officers who have fallen in the line of duty. Rep. Reichert also made the following statement to recognize the 55th observance of the memorial. “This week, thousands of family members of fallen police officers and their law enforcement families have come to Washington, DC to mourn their loss and honor the 252 additional names that will be etched into the National Law Enforcement Memorial Wall this year,” said Rep. Reichert. “The deep feelings of pain and sorrow that these families and loved ones are experiencing now is something that I am all too familiar with. In 1982, I lost my partner and best friend, Sergeant Sam Hicks, who was ambushed and shot to death when he was attempting to arrest a homicide suspect. Just years later in 1984, my friend, patrol partner, and Academy classmate, Mike Raburn, was stabbed to death while serving a warrant.” “Their deaths remind me daily of the incredible and selfless sacrifice law enforcement officers and their families make every day. Please join me in keeping the immediate family members as well as the entire extended law enforcement community in your thoughts and prayers during this week of reflection and remembrance.” To watch a video of Rep. Reichert commemorating fallen officers on the House floor, click HERE and HERE. BACKGROUND Police Week was started in 1962 by President John F. Kennedy. He designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the encompassing week to be "National Police Week." During this time, police officers from all over the nation come together in Washington, D.C., to pay tribute to their fellow officer who gave their lives in the line of duty. Currently, there are 20,789 names engraved on the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. ###
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the Senate passed the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016, widely bipartisan legislation that passed the U.S. House in April and was championed by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA). Passage of this bill gets us one step closer to manufacturing tax cuts for American companies. Specifically, it establishes a process for Congress to consider a Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), which would relieve U.S. manufacturers of tariffs that have impeded their ability to build more products and create more jobs in the U.S. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the legislation was sent to the President’s desk: “Growing our local economy and creating jobs here at home is a priority for my constituents in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District, and I am pleased to say that is what this bill will do,” said Rep. Reichert. “Putting this bill on the President’s desk moves us along the path to passing an MTB, which will relieve U.S. manufacturers of burdensome taxes so they can produce more American-made goods, hire more American workers, and lower prices for local families. This legislation is a win-win for American manufacturers and for consumers, and I urge the President to take swift action in signing it into law.” ###
05.10.2016	Washington, DC - Today, legislation championed by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), the Recovering Missing Children Act, was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives by a voice vote. This bill will aid law enforcement officers in their search for missing children by allowing the IRS to share taxpayer information with state and local law enforcement agencies in missing or exploited children cases. Currently, this information is subject to strict recordkeeping requirements and can result in civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized disclosure. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after he joined his House colleagues in supporting the legislation: “Prior to coming to Congress, I spent a large part of my career investigating the disappearance of missing children and young women,” said Rep. Reichert. “And during that time, I often was the officer responsible for telling a family that their loved one was not coming home. It was one of the hardest things I ever had to do. But one of the greatest feelings I have ever experienced in my life was telling parents that we had found their child alive and healthy. The Recovering Missing Children Act will provide law enforcement with a powerful additional tool, which could save lives and save parents from heartbreak. I am pleased that my colleagues in the House recognized the value of this resource and joined me today in supporting the legislation.” Rep. Reichert also spoke the House floor about the Recovering Missing Children Act prior to the bill’s passage. To watch the video, click HERE. ###
05.10.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after Iranian news reported the country test-fired a ballistic missile capable of reaching much of the Middle East, including U.S. military bases and our ally Israel. This most recent missile test follows a series of launches since the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). On one of the tests, the phrase “Israel must be wiped out” was inscribed on a missile in Hebrew. “This most recent act of aggression is another sign that Iran has no intention of moderating its behavior as a result of the President’s nuclear deal. Months after the agreement was implemented, the Iranian regime remains the greatest state sponsor of terrorism, continues to call America the “Great Satan,” and continues to directly threaten our greatest ally in the region, Israel. We have been fed promises by the Administration that this agreement will incentivize Iran to de-radicalize and engage with the global community, but no amount of spin can hide the that the agreement is a bad deal for America and a bad deal for our allies.” ###
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – This week, legislation championed by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), the Lymphedema Treatment Act, reached over 218 cosponsors, earning the bipartisan legislation support from the majority of the U.S. House. The bill would ensure Medicare coverage of compression garments for the millions of Americans who suffer from this condition and need these items for the daily management and treatment of their lymphedema. Rep. Reichert responded with the following statement: "Up to three million seniors throughout the United States suffer from pain and discomfort due to Lymphedema. Often times basic tasks like putting on pants and walking down the sidewalk are made extremely difficult," said Rep Reichert. "Compression garments are a simple but effective way to treat the effects of Lymphedema. Unfortunately, these garments are not currently covered by Medicare. I am very proud that now over half of the House of Representatives has joined my bill to make these garments eligible for Medicare coverage and provide these seniors with the care they need." Background Lymphedema is a chronic condition resulting from damaged or inadequate lymph nodes or lymphatic vessels that afflicts millions of Americans. It is a disease that one can be born with but it is most often caused by cancer treatments that damage the body’s lymph system or immune functions. Due to the painful swelling that results from lymphedema, compression therapy is an essential component of treatment but compression supplies are not covered by Medicare despite being an ongoing necessity. H.R. 1608 closes this coverage gap by requiring Medicare to cover lymphedema compression items. ##
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the Ways and Means Committee considered several bills to protect children and taxpayer identity, the Recovering Missing Children Act and the Stolen Identity Refund Fraud Prevention Act. Both bills passed out of the Committee with strong bipartisan support. “I spent a large part of my career investigating the disappearance of missing children and young women, and one of the hardest things I ever had to do was tell parents that their child was not coming home. But one of the greatest feelings I have ever experienced in my life and in my career, was telling parents that we had found their child alive and healthy. The Recovering Missing Children Act would provide law enforcement with a powerful additional tool, which could save lives and save parents from heartbreak,” said Rep. Reichert. “I am pleased that today the Committee also took steps to address the rapidly growing problem of identity theft,” continued Rep. Reichert. “While the IRS has undertaken initiatives to address the problem, more must be done to protect American taxpayers from a crime that can have a tremendous impact on their family and financial stability. The Stolen Identity Refund Fraud Prevention Act directs the IRS to take further actions to combat the issue and to help victims resolve stolen identity cases quickly and securely.” To watch Rep. Reichert’s remarks on the Recovery Missing Children Act, click HERE. To watch Rep. Reichert’s remarks on the Stolen Identity Refund Fraud Prevention Act, click HERE. ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee Subcommittee on Trade, made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation he championed, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016, by a strong bipartisan vote of 415 - 2. This legislation establishes a process for Congress to consider a Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), which will relieve U.S. manufacturers of burdensome tariffs that have hampered their ability to produce more American products and expand their business. "The number one thing I hear about from people in Washington State is jobs – how do we create and keep more good-paying jobs here at home? The Miscellaneous Tariff Bill is a jobs bill," said Rep. Reichert. "It cuts taxes on American manufacturers allowing them to produce more American-made products, create and keep more jobs here in the U.S., and lower prices for American families. I am proud to champion this bipartisan bill today because it gets us one step closer to passing the MTB and giving manufacturers and consumers the relief they need." Prior to the vote, Rep. Reichert spoke on the House floor, urging his colleagues to support MTB. To watch the video, click HERE. ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ) and Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Dianne Feinstein, (D-CA), in introducing a bill today to protect probation officers and enhance their ability to do their job by giving them authority to arrest a third party who forcibly interferes with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties. Under current law, a probation officer may arrest a probationer or individual on supervised release if the officer has probable cause to believe the offender has violated a condition of his or her probation or release. However, current law does not address a probation officer’s arrest authority in situations where a third party attempts to physically obstruct the officer or cause the officer physical harm. When a probation officer encounters an uncooperative or violent third party, the officer may be forced to retreat because the officer lacks authority to restrain the third party, exposing the officer to greater risk of harm and allowing the third party to evade capture. “Every day probation officers put themselves in situations where they are not only vulnerable to physical threats from their parolees, but also from their parolees’ friends, family, and the individuals they surround themselves with,” Rep. Reichert said. “Current law handicaps these officers from having the necessary authority to ensure their own safety as well as the safety of the people they are trying to protect. This bipartisan, commonsense bill would update the law to give our probation officers the tools to continue to do their job safely and with confidence.” “Probation officers are asked to put themselves in precarious situations every day but are limited in their ability to respond when third parties interfere with their job,” Rep. Pascrell said. “When a third party interferes with parole officers’ official duties, they often have limited recourse to deescalate the situation, which puts their safety and the safety of those around them at risk. Thankfully, this bipartisan bill would solve the problem by extending probation officers a right they deserve: the right to protect themselves and the public. “This legislation will give probation officers important tools to protect themselves against hostile individuals who attempt to harm them or otherwise interfere with their ability to carry out their important mission,” Senator Hatch said. “At the same time, this legislation will free up resources for local police forces, who will no longer need to accompany probation officers as frequently in order to provide backup. Many states give state probation officers authority to arrest third parties who forcibly interfere with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties. It makes sense to give federal probation officers the same authority.” “When probation officers visit offenders and conduct searches, they are frequently confronted by hostile third parties who interfere with their ability to do their jobs, sometimes with violence,” said Senator Feinstein. “In 2014, there were at least five instances where probation officers had to call outside law enforcement to arrest these individuals. Our bill would simply give probation officers the authority to arrest third parties to protect their safety.” Nathan R. Catura, National President of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), praised the introduction of the bicameral bill. "For far too long, the authority of U.S. Probation Officers has been fatally flawed and puts at risk these law enforcement professionals that often deal with the most violent criminals,” Catura said. “That is why FLEOA greatly appreciates the leadership shown by Senators Hatch and Feinstein and Reps. Reichert and Pascrell in support of these brave men and women and in seeking to close this potentially fatal loophole in their authority.” ###
04.25.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) congratulated Ruby Baek of Tahoma High School for winning first place in Washington's Eighth District’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition for her piece, Rocky Road. Later this year, Ruby will join the 434 other winners from congressional districts across the country in Washington, DC to attend an award ceremony celebrating their artistic talent. Along with the other first place finishers, Ruby’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Rep. Reichert made the following statement congratulating Ruby on her win and celebrating the creative talent from across the Eighth District: “A very big congratulations to Ruby Beak of Tahoma High School for winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition in Washington’s Eighth District. I know that her piece, Rocky Road, will represent the District well and I look forward to showing it to constituents who visit Washington, DC throughout the year. I would also like to thank the over 50 high school students who submitted their work to my staff. With so many creative minds in our high schools, the competition judges certainly had a difficult task.” ###
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Members of Congress Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA), led a letter today to the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) encouraging the organizations to discuss options in order to prevent future port disruptions similar to the 2014-2015 slowdown at West Coast ports. Based on recent public comments by ILWU President Robert McEllrath and PMA Chairman and CEO James McKenna, the Congressmen expressed optimism that the two organizations could work together to ensure the efficient movement of goods at U.S. ports. The Members of Congress wrote in the letter: “To be clear, because the workers, farmers, and businesses in our communities rely on the efficient movement of goods, we place great importance on the normal and functional operation of our ports. During the 2014-2015 disruption, farmers, manufacturers, and retailers across the western U.S. suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in damages because they could not get their goods to market. Foreign market share was lost, which not only hurt businesses trying to use the ports, but as you are aware, the shippers who transport goods, the workers who load and unload cargo, and the ports that rely on a steady stream of traffic were negatively impacted.” The Members continued in the letter: “Again, thank you for your early engagement on this issue that has serious implications for the economy of our region and the country as a whole. We hope to work with you as we continue our work in Congress to strengthen and increase freight mobility and develop proactive solutions to prevent future disruptions.” The letter was signed by Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Amata Radewagen (AS), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Mike Simpson (R-ID). In August 2015, Reps. Reichert and Newhouse introduced H.R. 3433, the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipment (PORTS) Act to improve the process of future negotiations to reduce the threat of harmful economic impacts of disruptions at U.S. ports. Read the full text of the letter, HERE. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Trade Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA), House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI),Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and 15 additional members of Congress introduced the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016. This bipartisan bill creates an open and transparent process for the House to consider manufacturing tax cuts through the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB). The new process will help American manufacturers compete in the global market while also upholding the House earmark rules. Representatives Tiberi (R-OH), Blumenauer (D-OR), Reed (R-NY), Pascrell (D-NJ), Renacci (R-OH), Davis (D-IL), Walker (R-NC), Clyburn (D-SC), Mulvaney (R-SC), Doyle (D-PA), McClintock (R-CA), Bishop (D-GA), Rokita (R-IN), Courtney (D-CT), and Blum (R-IA) are original cosponsors of the bill.Congressman Reichert made the following state after introducing the bill: “Since the last MTB expired in 2012, American companies have faced an annual $748 million tax hike on manufacturing in the United States. This has resulted in a $1.8 billion loss to the U.S. economy, hurting our consumers and making us less competitive. Our bill creates a new process for consideration of manufacturing tax cuts that will lower costs and create more jobs at home." said Subcommittee Chairman Reichert.Background on the 3-Step MTB Process:First, the new process would begin exclusively through petitions made by local U.S. businesses to the independent, non-partisan International Trade Commission (ITC). After the ITC receives petitions from the business community, an independent panel would receive comments from the public and the Administration and conduct its analysis.Second, the ITC would issue a public report to Congress with its analysis and recommendations regarding products that meet the MTB standards, including that there is no domestic production.Third, the Ways and Means Committee would examine the ITC’s recommendations and draft a MTB proposal. While the Committee can exclude products from its final proposal, it cannot add products that were not recommended by the ITC. As required by House rules, Ways and Means would certify that there are no spending earmarks and would publish a list of any Limited Tariff Benefits (LTB). Congress would then consider the MTB within existing rules. For more details on the new MTB process, click here.
03.23.2016	Washington, DC - This week Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and the Congressional Ukraine Caucus released the following statement on the verdict and sentencing of Ukrainian fighter pilot and Member of Parliament Nadiya Savchenko: “We condemn the verdict and the 22-year sentence issued today against Nadiya Savchenko. Russia’s handling of Savchekno’s capture and trial shows disregard for the rule of law and due process. Since her capture and imprisonment in July 2014 on trumped-up charges, her trial and hearing dates were repeatedly delayed, and the trial venue was moved to a remote region in Russia, difficult for independent observers to reach. Savchenko also endured interrogations, solitary confinement, and forced psychiatric evaluations. “Savchenko has come to represent the spirit of an independent Ukraine, free from interference and eager to embrace the will of its own people. We join the people of Ukraine in expressing deep concern for her wellbeing, and in protesting this unjust outcome. Once again, we call on Russian authorities to release her immediately.” ###
03.21.2016	Wenatchee World, by Reps. Dave Reichert, Dan Newhouse, and Cathy McMorris Rogers Although the dry summer air has been replaced by rain and snow, the damage caused by Washington wildfires continues to increase in the form of flooding and landslides. These fires have had lasting impacts on the people who were displaced and the communities who have been burdened by the costs of rebuilding. Even in the dead of winter, we must not forget that last year’s wildfire season wiped out over one million acres and destroyed more than 300 homes, making it the most destructive season in our state’s history. We remember the sacrifice of three U.S. Forest Service firefighters lost in the Twisp River Fire: Tom Zbyszewski, Andrew Zajac, and Richard Wheeler. We pray for recovery for those who were gravely injured. We do not want next summer to be another one for the record books. That is why we are working proactively in Congress now to implement measures that would help prevent future wildfires and better assist communities hit the hardest by natural disasters. Throughout the past year we visited areas ravaged by fire and the firefighters who serve them. We’ve also held roundtable discussions with community leaders to identify actions we can take to protect our region from devastating fires. One of the most promising strategies to prevent and contain wildfires is restoring the health of our forests. For decades, inadequate federal forest management has allowed our forests to become overgrown, disease ridden, and vulnerable to wildfires. This lapse in forest management programs is partially a result of a failed funding model. Currently, emergency wildfire response does not have the same budget process as other natural disaster responses, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, and floods. Throughout most of the last decade, year after year the U.S. Forest Service has exhausted funds allocated for wildfire suppression long before the fire season has ended, forcing them to dip into other accounts intended for forest health and management activities. This has left the agency with few resources available to clean up hazardous fuels and maintain healthy forests. As these past several summers have proven, if we do not have sufficient funds for management programs then our national forests will continue to be a tinderbox, waiting to be lit by a match or struck by a bolt of lightning. Realizing this dangerous cycle, we have supported measures in Congress that would clean up our fire-prone forests and strengthen our management programs. We are cosponsors of the Wildfire Disaster Fund Act (H.R. 167) which ends the Forest Service fire borrowing and treats wildfire response budgets just like every other natural disaster. This past July, we voted for and the House passed the bipartisan Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2647). This legislation will ensure that processes are in place to better clean up our forests, and would save critical forest management funds by authorizing the U.S. Forest Service to borrow from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) when they need additional resources to fight wildfires, instead of taking funds originally intended for management purposes. We are cosponsors of the FORESTS Act (H.R. 2178), introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, which would assist forest maintenance projects. Specifically, this legislation would make it easier and less costly for the Forest Service and stakeholders to collaborate in responsible timber harvesting efforts, which is an important part of wildfire prevention and can provide additional economic opportunities for our rural communities. Removing rotting or diseased timber is critical to protecting the health of the surrounding ecosystems, animal habitats, and the beauty of our forests that folks throughout our region have enjoyed for generations. Washington state and the areas impacted throughout our region will rebuild, and we have already been overwhelmed by the resilience we have seen throughout our communities. We are pleased that FEMA has made public assistance available to counties and municipalities in order to help fix damaged infrastructure. However under current federal guidelines, residents in rural communities are not treated fairly when calculating individual assistance. We cosponsored the Individual Assistance Improvement Act to improve the FEMA Individual Assistance process by taking into account the devastating impact fires and other disasters have on rural communities. We are committed to bringing your stories to Congress and will continue fighting until we get meaningful forest management legislation on the president’s desk and across the finish line. Reichert represents Washington’s 8th Congressional District, Newhouse the 4th District and McMorris Rodgers the 5th.
02.29.2016	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) took several steps to strengthen America’s national security. This morning he joined a bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers in introducing legislation to establish a National Commission on Security Challenges, also referred to as the McCaul-Warner Commission on Digital Security. The commission will bring together leading experts to examine the intersection of technology and safety to determine the implications for national security, public safety, data security, privacy, innovation, and American competitiveness in the global marketplace. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the legislation was introduced: “Digital security is critical to protecting Americans’ privacy and our way of life in the digital age. These days, many of us use encrypted technology to do everything from sending messages to our friends and loved ones to transferring money between bank accounts. Encrypted technology is essential to ensuring that this information remains private,” said Rep. Reichert. “However, today criminals of all stripes, including terrorists, are also taking advantage of this technology, allowing them to operate in the shadows and remain undetected by law enforcement and the intelligence community. This poses a serious and real threat to all Americans. The conversation of balancing personal security with national security is not an easy one to have, but establishing this commission will bring together the best of the best so we can move forward and find solutions that will not compromise our personal privacy or safety.” Additionally, this afternoon Rep. Reichert spoke on the House floor about a bill he cosponsored, the ALERT Act (H.R. 4001), which authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to train state and local law enforcement personnel through the National Network of Fusion Centers in ways to counter violent extremism in our communities. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the bill passed the U.S. House unanimously by a voice vote shortly after he spoke on the floor: “Today, terrorism is not just a threat from abroad; it is a threat that lives beneath our noses in our communities. And to fight a local threat, we must give the men and women who know our neighborhoods best the tools and resources necessary to do their job,” said Rep. Reichert. “The ALERT Act will give the Department of Homeland Security the ability to train our local law enforcement in counter-terrorism strategies so they will be able to help communities more quickly identify terrorist threats. While the threat of ISIS’ influence grows, we must use everything in our toolbox to stop it within our communities and prevent future attacks.”
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House Ways and Means Committee sent a letter to the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC), requesting that the agency conduct an investigation and provide a report on the factors facing the global competitiveness of the U.S. aluminum industry. As Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) urged the Committee to request this investigation in response to Alcoa’s decision to idle two aluminum smelting plants in Washington State, including Wenatchee Works in the 8th Congressional District. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after Chairman Brady sent the letter: “Although the United States is one of the global leaders in aluminum production, the recent closings and idling of aluminum plants across the country deserves our attention,” said Rep. Reichert. “With a thorough report from the USITC, we will have a better understanding of the factors impacting the health and competitiveness of this industry that supports good-paying jobs across America.” ###
02.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Trade and a conferee on the customs bill Conference Committee, made the following statement after he joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues and President Obama at the White House for the signing of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act: “I was honored to work with my House and Senate colleagues from both sides of the aisle to negotiate a strong agreement that will streamline trade for American businesses engaged in the global economy and provide Customs and Border Protection officers with the tools they need to enforce our trade laws,” said Rep. Reichert. “Strengthened enforcement and updated customs processes will better enable businesses in communities throughout Washington State and around the country to compete and succeed. I am pleased that this bipartisan bill will now become law.” ###
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Nita Lowey (D-NY) this week introduced the Education for All Act of 2016 (H.R. 4481), bipartisan legislation that aims to expand children’s access to school around the world, and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled. “Today, millions of children, especially in conflict-affected states and sub-Saharan Africa, are desperate for an education, but are denied that opportunity through no fault of their own. Helping these children receive a basic education is not only the right thing to do, but will also give them skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, contribute positively to their communities, and foster more stability in conflict-prone regions and the world,” said Rep. Reichert. “I am hopeful that with this bill, we can better coordinate our efforts with global partners to work toward reaching the 124 million children around the world who are not in school and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled.” “An education is the fundamental tool with which boys and girls are empowered to increase their economic potential, improve their health outcomes, address cultural biases, participate in their communities, and provide for their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why prioritizing children’s access to education around the world strengthens our national security and global leadership. Simply put, we cannot build the world we want for ourselves, and for future generations, without education at the center of our efforts. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will continue working to increase global access to education.” Worldwide, 59 million primary school-age children – more than half of whom are girls – and 65 million adolescents do not attend school. Tens of millions of school-age children who start primary school drop out, and millions more are denied a secondary education. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and girls, and decreased extremism. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the Education for All Act calls for: · A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; · The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; · Partnerships with countries to strengthen national education plans to help promote long-term sustainability; and · Engagement with key partners including other donors, civil society, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to leverage U.S. contributions to achieve a greater overall impact.
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, and member of the President’s Export Council, issued the following statement after the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement was signed in Auckland, New Zealand: “Today, representatives from the U.S. and the other 11 Pacific Rim partner nations came together to sign a historic trade agreement years in the making. The promise of this agreement to American workers and businesses and our nation’s leadership in the region cannot be overlooked. That is why I urge the Administration to work with us to address the concerns of Members of Congress and to develop a path forward. Our work must result in a TPP that has the support of Congress because it will create more good-paying jobs here at home, allow us to sell more American-made goods, and increase our global competitiveness.” ###
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after President Obama concluded his eighth and final State of the Union Address to the U.S. Congress. “As our Commander in Chief, the President’s first and most important duty is to keep our nation safe and instill confidence in the American people. Tonight, with the eyes and ears of the nation on him, the President had the opportunity to do that by laying out a strategy to defeat ISIS and the Islamic extremism threatening our nation and the world. Unfortunately, we did not hear a new plan to put us on the path to victory. In today’s dangerous times, we must listen to the wisdom of our military leaders. We must formulate a plan to not only stop the spread of extremists, but eliminate the threat altogether. Just as critical is the safety and security of our families and their children here at home. Over the past year we have seen rising tensions between law enforcement and communities they serve. We must be committed to strengthening this deteriorating relationship by restoring trust and building stronger partnerships. That is why I founded the Law Enforcement Task Force this past summer. It is important not to point fingers, but to work with a wide range of stakeholders to address the underlying issues that are causing the tensions. I look forward to continuing to have meaningful conversations around Washington State and throughout the country so we can bring people together and restore civility. While the President and I disagree on the approach the United States should take to secure the homeland, we share the same belief that strong free trade agreements strengthen our economy and create good-paying American jobs. Tonight, the President highlighted the need for Congress to pass the Trans-Pacific Partnership. As the Chair of the Trade Subcommittee overseeing the agreement, I urge the Administration to work with Congress to quickly and thoroughly address our concerns. Together, we must develop a path forward, because the economic and strategic importance of this agreement is vital to America; we must get this right. To create more jobs here at home we must also fix our outdated and complicated tax code. American workers want to keep more of their hard-earned dollars and our businesses want an updated tax code that allows them to grow, hire, compete and succeed. I look forward to continued work with my colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee to produce a pro-growth tax code that works better for American families, businesses, and workers.” ###
12.31.2015	Recently, the University of Virginia’s and Vanderbilt University’s Legislative Effectiveness Project ranked U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert as one of the most effective Members of Congress between 2013 and 2014. Specifically, Rep. Reichert earned the second-highest score among Washington State lawmakers after Rep. Doc Hastings who is now retired, ranking 27th among Republicans, and 28th among all 435 House members. This past year, Rep. Reichert has built upon his achievements from previous congressional terms and has continued to focus his efforts on growing jobs in Washington, enabling Americans to keep more of their hard earned dollars, and keeping our communities safe. Here are some of the highlights from 2015: · Named Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee: Rep. Reichert was given the opportunity to lead the Ways and Means Committee, Subcommittee on Trade and champion some of the issues that have the greatest impact on Washingtonians. Throughout the year, Rep. Reichert also continued to support‎ trade in Washington by fighting for the reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank and serving as the lead advocate in Congress to resolve the West Coast Ports dispute.‎ He is also a member of the President's Export Council. · Served as Chairman of the Tax Subcommittee: Prior to being named as Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee, Rep. Reichert chaired the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, where he focused on reforming the tax code to make it work better for American workers, families and businesses. Now as the Chairman Emeritus and second in seniority, he will continue reforming the outdated tax code. · Named Conferee to Customs and Highway Conference Negotiations: With a bipartisan, bicameral group of colleagues, Rep. Reichert worked to negotiate two important bills for the American people. This year’s Highway Bill is the first long term highway bill in a decade, giving states the certainty they need to invest in long-term infrastructure projects. The Highway Bill also included Rep. Reichert’s language advising states to strengthen laws regarding secured loads to increase public safety. As a Customs Bill conferee, he worked with his colleagues to negotiate a bill that will strengthen enforcement of our trade laws and increase opportunities for our businesses here at home. · Launched the Law Enforcement Task Force: Earlier this year, Rep. Reichert launched a task force aimed at opening conversations between members of law enforcement and the communities they serve throughout the country. This task force will explore and identify opportunities for communities and law enforcement to build upon mutual respect for one another and increase civility in our nation. · Launched the Congressional Freight Caucus: This past October, Rep. Reichert launched the bipartisan Congressional Freight Caucus in an effort to raise awareness about the need to expand the nation’s freight infrastructure and improve the movement of goods. This issue is especially important to Washington State, where our freight systems support 1.5 million jobs and produce $129 billion in annual revenue. Sponsored Legislation Passed into Law: · H.R. 1269 (P.L. 114-12): The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act was signed into law on May 19th and creates a nationwide alert system to apprehend violent criminals who have seriously injured, killed, or made an imminent or credible threat to cause serious harm to a law enforcement officer. · H.R. 2146 (P.L. 114-26): The Defending Public Safety Employees’ Retirement Act ensures fairness for federal public safety officials by allowing them to access retirement savings at the age of 50 after 20 years of service without the application of the 10% penalty. This is the same treatment state and local public safety officers receive. · H.R. 1892 (P.L. 114-27): The Trade Adjustment Assistance Reauthorization Act provides temporary assistance, including training, to American workers who have been impacted by international trade. The following bills Rep. Reichert sponsored were enacted as part of the FY2016 Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 114-113), which was recently signed into law on December 18th. · H.R. 629, The Permanent S Corporation Built-in Gain Recognition Period Act of 2015: This bill makes permanent an important provision that supports our small businesses in doing what they do best – creating jobs and strengthening our local economies. Specifically, it allows S Corporations greater access to their own capital, so they can grow, reinvest, and hire by reducing the time they must hold certain assets after changing to a S Corporation from a C Corporation. · H.R. 630, Permanent S Corporation Charitable Contribution Act of 2015: This bill makes permanent a rule ensuring consistent treatment of charitable contributions for S Corporation ‎shareholders, thereby providing certainty and encouraging charitable giving. · H.R. 869: This legislation ensures that public employees in Washington State including school teachers, utility district workers, and many others, are able to enjoy the fruits of their labor and pass on medical benefits earned over years of service to their families and loved ones. · H.R. 2940, Educator Tax Relief Act: This bill makes permanent the educator tax deduction, which allows teachers to deduct the cost of classroom supplies and professional development expenses up to $250. Just like companies can deduct certain business expenses, teachers should be able to deduct the amount of their own hard-earned dollars they put into making classrooms the best learning environment they can for our kids and grandkids. · H.Amdt.271, to increase funding for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program by $100 million: This amendment, which passed the House on June 2nd and was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act , provides funding to help local police departments meet their hiring needs to ensure our communities have enough cops on the street to keep us safe. ###
12.23.2015	Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement in response to Gov. Jay Inslee's announcement that the Washington State Department of Corrections has mistakenly released thousands of prisoners early over the past thirteen years: Yesterday’s news of yet another mishap by the Department of Corrections is as disturbing as it is infuriating. Over the past several months I have heard from folks throughout Washington state who are deeply concerned and baffled by the decisions coming out of Olympia. Over the summer I was notified by victims of one of the most heinous crimes in Washington’s history that the Indeterminate Sentence Review Board was considering the early release of Timothy Pauley, a man serving three life sentences for a triple homicide in 1980. As one of the detectives who carried the bodies of his victims out of the building where he and his accomplice tortured and killed three people and left two more for dead, I can attest to it being one of the worst crime scenes we’ve ever processed. Unfortunately, it appears the ISRB believes 35 years in prison will suffice for the three life sentences he was given. Numerous people including victims, lawyers, and King County Prosecuting Attorney, Dan Satterberg have called into question the method used to calculate Pauley’s minimum sentence. We now know it is not only Pauley’s sentence but thousands of others that have been miscalculated by the DOC. Ultimately those questions were ignored, and the ISRB is moving forward with a hearing on Pauley’s release on January 5th, less than two weeks from today. What’s worse, Pauley’s victims and their families were given little-to-no notice of previous hearings or decisions, and the Governor has refused to meet with them. We also learned this summer that the DOC, again without notifying the victims’ families, moved the Green River Killer, Gary Ridgway from isolation in the Walla Walla State Penitentiary to a prison in Colorado where he would be able to mingle with the general population. Only after public outcry was the most prolific serial killer in U.S. history returned to solitary confinement in Washington. In total, the move cost taxpayers $40,000. Now we have been told that the DOC has been miscalculating sentences for 13 years. Even more upsetting is that they have known about the error since 2012 and, until yesterday, have not bothered to address it or inform victims, law enforcement or the public. This is unacceptable. Our communities and the first responders dedicated to protecting them deserve better. We need to know who these 3,200 criminals are; what crimes they were convicted of and ultimately granted early release for; and exactly how the state is going to ensure this mass injustice is resolved. Yesterday’s announcement and the recent actions of the DOC are not isolated incidents; they are part of a much larger problem. In the eyes of the state, victims of crimes and their families are taking a back seat to the criminals who have caused them so much pain. The DOC, through its incompetence and the decisions by its ISRB, has shown it is more interested in reducing the sentences lawfully handed down by judges than ensuring justice is served. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which will fund the government through Fiscal Year 2016. “I am proud that today the House came together to vote on bipartisan legislation that will keep our government up and running, ensuring that our military has the resources it needs to protect our national security and that our seniors are cared for. With this bill, Washingtonians also secured some important wins, including preventing significant harmful tariffs from being placed on our high-quality goods, like apples and cherries, and the reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. It also boosts funding for the National Institutes of Health which supports researchers in our state who are working to find new treatments and cures for cancer and other diseases. Additionally, under this funding bill, the COPS Hiring Program, an initiative I have consistently fought for, will be restored so that local law enforcement agencies can adequately staff their departments in order to keep our cities and neighborhoods safe. With the certainty that the government will remain funded through September 2016, Congress can now return in the new year with a renewed focus on making the country safer, stronger, and better for all Americans.”
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) applauded the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act, which includes several provisions Rep. Reichert championed. Prior to the vote, the Congressman spoke on the House floor about the impact this bill will have on Washingtonians. To watch the video, click HERE. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the bill’s passage: “The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act does exactly what its title implies – it ensures families across the country will keep more of their hard-earned dollars and provides our small business owners with much-needed certainty to plan for future investments and hirings. I am proud to say this bill includes several provisions I have championed on behalf of America’s teachers, workers and small businesses,” Reichert said. “And for Washingtonians, this bill not only guarantees fairness by making permanent our ability to deduct sales tax, but it also ensures that tens of thousands of local public employees, like public utility workers and teachers, will be able to pass on savings they set aside for health care to their loved ones. Today’s vote puts us on a path toward tax reform and guarantees certainty for American workers to provide for their families and for American businesses to compete, innovate and thrive.” After the vote, stakeholders reached out to Rep. Reichert, thanking for him for his continued effort to fight for tax relief for Washingtonians: “Main Street businesses owe Congressman Reichert a big THANKS for his tireless efforts on behalf of millions of S corporations across the country. The passage of the PATH Act means these businesses will no longer need to wait until the end of the year to know if they are going to get relief from the built-in gains tax or whether they’ll be able to deduct their full charitable contributions. These and the other Main Street business provisions in the bill will provide job creators with certainty for the first time in decades, so they can make decisions based on what is best for the company rather than the dictates of an outdated tax code.” - Brian Reardon, President, S Corporation Association “NEA applauds Rep. Reichert’s bipartisan efforts to provide much-needed financial relief for the 99.5 percent of public school educators who put their own dollars toward classroom supplies and instructional materials for our children. For the first time, the tax deduction is permanent, includes professional development as a deductible expense, and will go a long way towards helping educators provide the additional resources our students need to succeed.” - Lily Eskelsen García , President, National Education Association “We are very thankful this bill has been passed. It provides a much-needed change for local government employees who for years have worked hard to set money aside in their VEBA accounts to provide for their health care and that of their families. These prudent savers deserve options in designating beneficiaries so the earnings they have accumulated during their years of service are rightfully retained by their families.” - Steve Pfaff, Commissioner of the Soos Creek Water and Sewer District Additional Information: Reichert, Blumenauer Introduce Bill to Eliminate HRA Tax Rule:https://reichert.house.gov/press-release/reichert-blumenauer-introduce-bill-eliminate-hra-tax-rule Reichert and House Members Work to Provide Educators with Tax Relief:https://reichert.house.gov/press-release/reichert-and-house-members-work-provide-educators-tax-relief Reichert, Kind Introduce Bill to Reduce Burden on Small Businesses: https://reichert.house.gov/press-release/reichert-kind-introduce-bill-reduce-burden-small-businesses
12.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – December 11, 2015 – Today, Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced a bipartisan bill to expand key disaster assistance to rural communities in Washington state and across the country. The Individual Assistance Improvement Act of 2015 would increase opportunities to access the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Individual Assistance Program. The Individual Assistance Program provides housing and unemployment assistance, counseling, and other personal support to families and individuals in the wake of a disaster. However, the current formula FEMA uses to evaluate damages and send disaster declaration recommendations to the President frequently leaves smaller towns and communities out. The assistance cannot be utilized without a federal disaster declaration. In Washington state, rural communities have been impacted by wildfires this year that burned more than one million acres and left 46 families without temporary housing. On the Olympic Peninsula severe storms have triggered flooding and mudslides that have caused significant damage to residential property. “From wildfires to mudslides, natural disasters cause significant damage to residents and businesses across our state,” said Representative Kilmer. “Folks who have to pick up the pieces after their property is damaged need a helping hand. They shouldn’t have to worry about bureaucratic and technical hurdles to getting back on their feet. This bipartisan bill ensures that rural communities in Washington state don’t get left out when we need to rebuild after disasters strike.” “Wildfires affect both urban and rural areas the same, they consume whatever stands in their path,” said Representative Reichert. “Communities throughout my region learned this the hard way this past summer. Chelan County alone lost 122,845 acres to wildfires, costing it over $4.7 million in damages. Many other smaller communities in Washington State and the country are impacted by wildfires and other disasters every year but do not receive the same FEMA consideration for Individual Assistance as more urban communities do. I was pleased to work with Congressmen Kilmer and Newhouse on bipartisan legislation to update this shortcoming in existing law and ensure that rural communities receive the financial support they need in order to help them pick up the pieces and rebuild after devastating disasters.” “Two years of historic catastrophic wildfires have destroyed hundreds of homes and burned 1.4 million acres, despite this the residents of Central Washington have repeatedly been denied access to Individual Assistance aid without an adequate explanation,” said Representative Newhouse. “Current rules for disaster aid prioritize relief efforts to areas of concentration, or urban areas. This means even after a major federal disaster is declared all too often residents in devastated rural communities are left to fend for themselves. No family facing the aftermath of a wildfire, or any natural disaster, should be denied federal aid simply because they live in a rural community. This legislation will revise eligibility criteria, providing much-needed clarity and objective standards for the formula used for federal assistance. I thank my colleagues, Rep. Kilmer and Rep. Reichert, for their efforts on this critical legislation to ensure rural communities are not unfairly excluded from federal aid.” The members’ legislation would eliminate a factor FEMA uses to evaluate rural areas that treats them as a metropolitan area – putting too much emphasis on population density. The bill would also seek to set clear guidelines for how FEMA helps small states and rural communities gain access to assistance and would give Governors and Tribal Executives clear guidance as to why requests are accepted or rejected. ###
12.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House passed the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, which works to remove barriers for American importers and exporters and provide Customs and Border Protection officers with the tools they need to enforce our trade laws. As Chairman of the Trade Subcommittee, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) was named as a conferee to the committee that negotiated the final bill. Prior to the bill’s passage, Rep. Reichert spoke on the House floor about the benefits of passing this bill, both for Washington State and the country as a whole. A video of the speech can be found HERE.
12.04.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported and the U.S. House and Senate passed the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which included language to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import Bank. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the bill’s passage: “After many months of uncertainty, Congress made the responsible decision to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank, which provides thousands of businesses throughout the country with the tool they need to reach new foreign customers and expand globally. This resource is especially critical to Washington State, where Ex-Im has supported over 230 businesses – many of them small - and helped generate over $15 billion in exports just last year. I am proud to have served on the conference committee for this bill and to have been part of the team that saw the Bank’s reauthorization across the finish line. Getting to this point has taken a lot of work from both sides of the aisle, but I am confident that when Washington State businesses operate on a level playing field with foreign businesses, they win, and create hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs here at home.” Background: Since Congress failed to reauthorize Ex-Im this past summer, Rep. Reichert has been working with a bipartisan group of colleagues to revive the Bank. He joined with over 40 Republicans in signing a petition to bring a bill to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank to the House floor. This bill passed the House with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 313-118 – and because of this bipartisan support it was included in the Highway Bill. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which reauthorizes our nation’s highways, transit, and safety programs as well as fully funds the Highway Trust Fund for the next five years. As a member of the highway bill conference committee, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) was part of the bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers that worked together to reach an agreement on the final conference report. Congressman Reichert made the following statement after the bill passed the House: “After years of short-term fixes, Congress voted this afternoon to give states the long-term certainty they need to make investments in job creating infrastructure projects that are critical to our roads, bridges, economic competitiveness, and public safety. The bill gives states more control and flexibility in prioritizing funding for much-needed highway projects and contains provisions that will help us better compete in a 21st Century economy, including improvements in freight mobility and port performance measures to address future port slowdowns. This is especially important to Washingtonians as our freight systems and ports support 1.5 million jobs and produce $129 billion in annual revenue. The bill also includes provisions to improve highway safety such as encouraging states to address unsecure loads.” “Although this legislation is not perfect, I am proud of the work we have done as a bipartisan group to move a long-term highway solution to the President’s desk.” ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) was selected to serve on the conference committee for the customs reauthorization bill. In this role, Rep. Reichert will work with his colleagues from the House and Senate to finalize an agreement on legislation to facilitate trade through the modernization of our export-import processes and to strengthen the enforcement of our trade laws. This is his second appointment to a conference committee in three weeks after finishing his work yesterday on the federal transportation authorization ‎bill that is scheduled for a vote on the House floor in the coming days. After hearing news of his appointment, Rep. Reichert made the following statement: “I am honored to work with my House and Senate colleagues from both sides of the aisle to get this important legislation across the finish line. With the importance of trade to communities across the country, we must ensure that we are doing all we can to facilitate trade through updating our processes and reducing unnecessary burdens. That is exactly what this legislation will accomplish while also guaranteeing that the tools necessary to enforce our trade laws are effective. There is still work to be done, but I am confident we can finish the great work that was started by Chairmen Brady, Tiberi and Boustany. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), replacing the existing law known as No Child Left Behind (NCLB): “Ensuring that all children have access to a world-class education is one of our greatest responsibilities, but for too long we have failed to meet that duty as our schools have struggled under the outdated No Child Left Behind law. I’m pleased we were able to roll up our sleeves, put politics aside, and come to a bipartisan agreement on legislation updating our nation’s education law with one that put parents and educators back in charge of our children’s learning. This historic piece of legislation will end a decades-old top-down bureaucratic approach to education and empower our local school districts to make decisions that best address the unique needs of their students so that every child can succeed.” Background: This past November, Rep. Reichert sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate committees responsible for education legislation, urging them to quickly come to an agreement on legislation to reauthorize ESEA. S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act, is the conference agreement to reauthorize ESEA and passed the House on December 2, 2015 by a vote of 359-64. The bill now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
11.19.2015	Washington, DC - Today, the House passed and U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) supported legislation to require proper security vetting of Syrian and Iraqi refugees before they are granted entry to the United States. The bill passed with strong bipartisan support with a vote count of 289 – 137. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the bill’s passage: “The United States is the most compassionate nation in the world – a fact in which we should all take great pride. However, that compassion cannot come at the expense of our citizens’ security. Starting with my service in the Air Force Reserves, through my 33 years in law enforcement, and now as a representative, my first priority is the safety of Washingtonians and all Americans. If the U.S. is going to allow Syrian refugees into our country we must have strong safeguards in place to ensure terrorist attacks, like the those that recently occurred in France, do not happen here at home.” “Today, I voted for a bill to provide those safeguards. After the FBI, the National Counterterrorism Center, and Homeland Security admitted last month that they do not have adequate intelligence on Syria to ensure our safety, it was clear to me that the status quo is not enough. Our law enforcement officers and the communities they protect need to know their security is the federal government’s top priority. This bill gives that assurance by requiring our intelligence community and homeland security agencies to unanimously certify that each refugee has been given a sufficiently thorough background investigation and determined that he or she is not a threat. As a country, we must remain strong and must act when radical extremists make threats to our homeland.” ###
11.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement after being named as the new Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. Congressman Reichert will also serve as the second-highest ranking Republican on the newly re-named Subcommittee on Tax Policy, formerly the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee, and will rejoin the Human Resources Subcommittee, where he formerly served as Chairman during the 113th Congress. “I am very honored to have the opportunity to lead the Trade Subcommittee and champion some of the issues that have the greatest impact on Washingtonians. Washington State is one of the most trade-dependent states in the country with 40 percent of our jobs and more than $90 billion in annual exports connected to trade. In the Eighth District alone, 77,100 jobs are supported by trade, and our growers, producers, and businesses export approximately $8.6 billion in goods and services each year,” said Rep. Reichert. “With the release of the text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and our ongoing negotiations with the EU, this is a critical time for trade. As a long-time advocate of expanding trade opportunities, I will continue fighting on behalf of our workers, farmers, and businesses across the country, because I firmly believe through high-standard trade agreements we see expanded opportunities for all.” “I am also pleased to continue my work updating and reforming our tax code as the Chairman Emeritus and second in seniority on the Tax Policy Subcommittee. Ensuring that our tax code helps families keep more of their hard-earned money and allows small businesses to thrive is a top priority for our nation. Additionally, I am returning to the Human Resources Subcommittee where I look forward to continuing the work I began when I chaired the subcommittee last Congress to protect children and those who are most vulnerable in society.” Related Information: Rep. Reichert is the first Member of Congress from Washington State to serve as Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. Rep. Reichert is co-chair of the Friends of TPP Caucus, member of the President’s Export Council, and founder of the Congressional Freight Caucus. Reichert Named 2014 Washington Trade Hero Reichert Writes About Importance of Ex-Im Bank in The Hill ###
11.18.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert was selected to serve on the conference committee for the long-term highway bill. In this role, Rep. Reichert will work with other lawmakers from the House and Senate to negotiate and come to an agreement on legislation to reauthorize and fund the nation’s highway and transit programs. After hearing news of his appointment, Rep. Reichert made the following statement: “I am looking forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues from both sides of the aisle to complete a long-term highway bill. Doing so is critical for our roads, bridges, economic competitiveness, and public safety. Here in Washington State, folks not only depend on strong infrastructure to get to and from work, but with one of the nation’s leading trade economies, our growers and producers need a dependable, efficient freight and transportation system to move their goods safely to market. Today’s conference meeting will be an important step toward meeting these goals.” Related information: Reichert, Coffman, Radewagen, Newhouse Introduce PORTS Act Congressman Reichert Launches Congressional Freight Caucus Reichert, Kilmer, Herrera Beutler Introduce Legislation to Upgrade Infrastructure ###
11.13.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate committees responsible for education legislation, urging them to take swift action to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Congressman Reichert was joined by over 30 of his House Republican colleagues on the letter. Below is an excerpt from the letter: “For far too long our nation’s schools have struggled under the now outdated No Child Left Behind law to provide the world-class education that our children deserve and require to be competitive in a global economy. It has been nearly 13 years since the last ESEA reauthorization; we cannot miss this opportunity to reconcile differences and enact legislation that puts students and families first. We urge you to complete conference negotiations to reauthorize ESEA as soon as possible. Missing this opportunity to reauthorize ESEA would be devastating to America’s students whose education is deeply impacted – these students deserve to be made a priority. Successful passage of legislation to update our laws is critical to every community in each of our congressional districts. Across the nation school districts, students, parents, educators, and community leaders are eager for a new law that supports common sense changes that strengthen our education system. Enacting authorizing legislation is the duty of the legislative branch. The time is long-past for Congress to exercise this authority. We were pleased that both the House and Senate completed their individual bills this summer. We urge you to finish the work and present a final ESEA reauthorization bill as soon as possible. We stand ready to support you in this effort.” ###
11.13.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement in response to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names vote to update the previously named “Coon Lake” to “Howard Lake.” “I am pleased that the Board listened to the will of the folks throughout our region and updated the lake’s name to better reflect the history of the area. Now, when hikers take the long and steep climb up the McGregor Mountain trail and pass the lake about one mile in, they will instead be reminded of Wilson Howard, an African-American miner who staked claims in the area back in 1892. I am looking forward to seeing Howard’s name on trail signs and maps as we update information to reflect the Board’s decision,” said Congressman Reichert. Background: Prior to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names approval of the name change, the Washington State Committee on Geographic Names, Chelan County Board of Commissioners, and a range of citizens, local groups, and property owners had also supported efforts to rename the lake. Additionally, this past October, Rep. Reichert took the lead in writing a letter alongside Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names, demanding they rename the lake and right this historical wrong. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, co-chair of the Friends of TPP Caucus, and member of the President’s Export Council, issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s release of the text of the recently concluded Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement. “With the release of the text of the TPP agreement, we all have the opportunity to read the text of the agreement thoroughly. Only after reading the text will we know if TPP meets the standard Congress has set forth. A high-standard TPP agreement has the potential to offer businesses big and small throughout my region and the country an opportunity to expand to new markets, creating good-paying American jobs in the process. Trade with TPP countries already supports over 341,000 jobs in Washington State and with a successful TPP we will see this number grow,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is my hope that the TPP agreement is one I can support, but I must first evaluate the text of the agreement and consult with my constituents.”
11.04.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) offered an amendment related to the 2014-2015 West Coast ports dispute, which impacted many importers and exporters throughout Washington State and the country. Under Rep. Reichert’s amendment, the Government Accountability Office would be required to study the economic impact of the dispute, to review the steps taken to reach an agreement, and to suggest what other tools might be used to prevent future slowdowns. Prior to the vote, he spoke on the House floor about the importance of passing the amendment. Below is an excerpt of his remarks: “The efficient movement of goods is critical to the economic success of country. Our farmers and manufacturers must be able to export their high-quality products to the customers around the world that rely upon this steady supply. Beginning in the summer of 2014, these customer relationships and our economy were threatened. This was the result of a prolonged contract negotiation between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU). The negotiation, which lasted until February of 2015, covered the 29 West Coast container ports and the tens of thousands of longshore, clerk, and foreman workers who are employed at these ports. Just how serious was the impact of these prolonged negotiations? An example from my home state provides a clear illustration. Our apple growers were faced with an estimated $100 million of apples that they could not sell. This is just one example, but the impact was felt across all industries Like many of you, I have committed to my constituents that I will work to ensure that this is not repeated for the sake of our workers, farmers, and manufacturers… I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment. The strength of our economy depends on it." Rep. Reichert's amendment gained the support of 200 members of the House, narrowly missing the 216 votes necessary for passage. While disappointed the amendment did not pass, he is pleased this issue is continuing to earn the attention of a growing number of members on both sides of the aisle and is committed to fighting on behalf of the many exporters who rely on ports to transport their goods. The support of 200 Members from across the country shows that the number of Members interested in a solution continues to increase even as more time has passed since an agreement was reached. Related Links: Reichert, Coffman, Radewagen, Newhouse Introduce PORTS Act Reichert Statement on Administration Intervention in West Coast Ports Shutdown Resolution Urging End to West Coast Ports Slowdown Grows Rapidly Reichert Statement on West Coast Ports Resolution
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the election of Congressman Paul D. Ryan as Speaker of the House. “Last month, Congress was given the opportunity to elect new leadership with a positive message that unites the Conference and gives Americans hope about the future of this country. At that point, we did not know who that leader was or would be, but today we stood together and elected a new Speaker. A Speaker I have had the pleasure of serving with on the Ways and Means Committee for over the past six years." “I know Speaker Ryan to be a man deeply committed to defending our freedoms and improving the lives of hardworking Americans throughout this country. Under his unifying leadership, I am confident that we are in a strong position to do just that.” “As we enter into this next chapter, we cannot forget the countless sacrifices made by former Speaker Boehner and the important work he has done on behalf of this country throughout his 25 years in Congress. He has served his constituents with honor and distinction and I wish him the best in his retirement.” ###
10.27.2015	Washington, DC - Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) spoke on the House floor about the urgent need for Congress to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Shortly after he spoke, the House passed a bill to reauthorize the Bank with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 313-118. Rep. Reichert made the following statement after the bill’s passage. “I am proud to have cast a vote today in support of the 230 businesses and countless jobs in our region that have relied on Ex-Im,” said Rep. Reichert. “This invaluable resource has helped local businesses generate over $140 billion in exports for Washington State – and if they can have Ex-Im’s continued support, this number will only keep growing.” Rep. Reichert continued, “I am committed to seeing this legislation signed into law for our nation’s greatest job creators, and so that our businesses can continue growing, expanding to new markets, and creating more American jobs.” Background: Prior to this afternoon’s vote, Rep. Reichert joined with over 40 Republicans in signing a petition to bring a bill to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank to the House floor. The House’s vote today to reauthorize Ex-Im was a result of that effort.
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Reichert (R-WA) made the following statement regarding President Obama’s veto of this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “In an a show of bipartisanship, this week Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle worked together to put a bill on the President’s desk that would fulfill the promises we made to our servicemembers and keep America safe,” said Rep. Reichert. “However, with the stroke of a pen, President Obama prioritized his own political agenda over our troops and our national security. Since it was first passed over 50 years ago, the NDAA has only been vetoed four times, and this is the first time it’s being struck down for something purely political.” Rep. Reichert continued, “At a time when America faces serious threats both on the homeland and abroad, we must ensure that our troops are provided with the resources they need to fulfill their critical mission and are fairly compensated for the incredible sacrifices they make each day. We must never forget that the Commander-in-Chief’s first and foremost job is to protect this nation, and yesterday, President Obama failed to do that.” At the moment, the House is scheduled to hold a vote to override the President’s veto of the NDAA on November 5th. In order to nullify the veto, a two-thirds majority of the House must vote against it – the Senate needs a majority of 67.
10.22.2015	Washington, DC – This week, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) launched the Congressional Freight Caucus in an effort to raise awareness about the need to expand our nation’s freight infrastructure. “Ensuring that we have a strong freight infrastructure is critical to maintaining the free flow of goods and people and protecting America’s prominence in the global economy. This issue is especially important to Washington State, where freight systems support 1.5 million jobs and produce $129 billion in annual revenue,” said Congressman Reichert. “However, the reality is that U.S. freight volumes are estimated to grow by 45 percent by the year 2045 and we do not currently have the capacity to accommodate this growth. We must adequately prepare for increasing cargo volumes by making the necessary investments now to keep our industries competitive, our economy growing, and our roads safe,” Rep. Reichert continued. “I am hopeful that this caucus can bring together Members from all regions and all sides of the aisle to discuss actionable policy solutions to strengthen America’s freight transportation system.”
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) welcomed the recent announcement that Washington’s request for federal disaster relief assistance in counties affected by wildfires this summer was approved. Specifically, funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Public Assistance Program will be given to eight counties, including Chelan County, to compensate for the damages incurred by the year’s record wildfire season as the state prepares to repair damaged infrastructure that occurred from the catastrophic fire season. “This news comes as a great relief to the many communities that were victims of the wildfires that swept across the eastern part of our state this summer,” said Congressman Reichert. “These relentless fires burned over one million acres throughout the state, destroying 146 homes that stood in their path, and displacing many families throughout our region. Chelan alone lost 122,845 acres, costing the county over $4.7 million in damages.” “Although no sum of money can ever replace the lives that were lost and the priceless items that perished in the flames, these emergency funds will help rebuild some of the communities that were hit the hardest,” continued Reichert. “The people of Central and Eastern Washington are resilient, and I know we will get through this and continue to rebuild.” Earlier this year, Rep. Reichert joined Senators Patty Murray, Maria Cantwell and U.S. Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Jaime Herrera Beutler, and Dan Newhouse in sending multiple letters to the President urging him to approve the state’s federal emergency disaster declaration. ###
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert joined over 218 of his House colleagues in signing a discharge petition to bring a vote to reauthorize the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank of the United States to the House floor. The petition reached the minimum number of signatures, 218, to force a vote on the Bank’s reauthorization. “When Washington State businesses operate on a level playing field with foreign businesses, they win, and hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs are created here in our state,” said Congressman Reichert. “But when Congress failed to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank this past summer, we put over 230 of our state’s exporters that have relied on Ex-Im and the jobs they support here at home at risk. Too much is on the line, which is why I joined my colleagues in taking this step to force action on this critical resource for our nation’s job creators." ###
10.08.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after the Republican Conference Election for Speaker of the House was postponed: “When Speaker Boehner announced his plans to resign from Congress this past September, House Republicans were given an opportunity to elect fresh leadership, with a positive message that unites the Conference and gives Americans hope about the future of this country. Today, we do not know who that leader is, or will be. However, I am confident that our Conference will continue working over these next several weeks to find a strong leader who will listen to the will of the American people and help put this country on the path of growth and opportunity. This is what the American people deserve and we cannot fail them.” ###
10.08.2015	Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan team introduced the Reach Every Mother and Child Act, a bold, bipartisan legislative initiative to accelerate the reduction of preventable maternal, newborn and childhood deaths worldwide. The measure was introduced by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX). “Every day, 16,000 children die tragic, preventable deaths before they reach the age of 5,” said Congressman Reichert, the Co-Chair of the Global Health Caucus. “While infant mortality rates have decreased significantly over the past 25 years with the United States’ leadership, these numbers are still heart breaking and unacceptable. With better access to care and services for mothers and children, the Reach Act will not only help families rise out of poverty, but will further efforts to decrease infant mortality, and foster stability and security around the world.” "Improving access to quality health services for mothers, children and newborns around the world must be a United States priority. The Reach Act builds on the remarkable progress the United States has already made to ensure more mothers survive child birth and that more children live to celebrate their 5th birthday,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Co-Chair of the Global Health Caucus. “By implementing new and cost-effective strategies, better using technology, and coordinating resources, we can reach even more families and achieve our shared global goal of ending preventable maternal and child deaths within a generation. I am pleased to partner with Rep. Dave Reichert and Rep. Barbara Lee on this critical issue." “In the past fifteen years, the international community has halved the maternal and child mortality rate. This stands as a testament to the power of global cooperation and international development,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee, a member of the international assistance funding subcommittee and one of the Congressional representatives to the 70th UN General Assembly. “Yet, our work is far from over. Each year, more than 1 million babies die on their very first day of life, many from preventable causes. We can and must do more to stop these unnecessary deaths. The Reach Act will save lives while creating a better world for millions.” “It is astonishing to see how much progress has been made thus far in reducing the number of preventable deaths in some of the world’s most impoverished countries. However, there is still much work that needs to be done,” said Congressman Michael McCaul. “I am proud to be the cosponsor of legislation that will accelerate current efforts to eliminate maternal and child deaths within a generation. By developing a strategic, evidence-based approach that effectively utilizes resources, this bill will help save the lives of millions.” This legislation has already won the support of more than 20 non-governmental organizations (NGO) including RESULTS, World Vision and Save the Children Action Network. “The introduction of the Reach Act today is an important step toward a goal we now know is possible: the end of preventable child and maternal deaths,” said Dr. Joanne Carter, Executive Director of RESULTS. “Last year USAID embraced a set of reforms so that they can support countries to save even more lives, and with congressional support and oversight, they can go even further. We know that this ambitious goal is possible. With the Reach Act, Congress can help make it a reality.” “The Reach Every Mother and Child Act provides a critical opportunity for the US Government to strengthen its commitment in serving the global poor,” added World Vision CEO Rich Stearns. “This legislation will ensure that proven cost-effective and life-saving health interventions will be scaled up in the developing world, in order to end preventable maternal and child deaths in our lifetime.” “We can end preventable maternal, newborn and child deaths within a generation, and this bill will help us do it,” said Save the Children Action Network President Mark Shriver. “I would like to thank Representatives Reichert, Lee, McCaul and McCollum for their leadership and Senators Susan Collins and Chris Coons for introducing a similar bill in the Senate. Every day, 16,000 children under the age of 5 die from preventable causes, like pneumonia and diarrhea. The Reach Act can change this sobering fact by investing in and scaling up proven and inexpensive solutions that save millions of lives.” Background: According to experts, nearly 300,000 women die annually from pregnancy and childbirth complications. Furthermore, malnutrition contributes to approximately 45 percent of deaths among children under the age of five, totaling more than 3 million mostly preventable deaths each year. The Reach Act is the House companion bill to the Reach Every Mother and Child Act (S. 1911) introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Christopher Coons (D-DE.) The legislation would: Coordinate U.S. government strategy to end preventable maternal, newborn, and childhood deaths globally within a generation; Require targets to be set, tracked, and reported; Focus on the poorest and most vulnerable populations while recognizing the unique needs within different countries and communities; Improve coordination amongst agencies and foreign governments, civil society, and international organizations; Encourage innovative, public-private financing mechanisms; and Accelerate partner country progress toward self-sustainability. Press Contacts: Breanna Deutsch (Rep. Reichert) – 202.225-7761 - Breanna.Deutsch@mail.house.gov Sam McCullough (Rep. McCollum) – 202.225.6631 – sam.mccollough@mail.house.gov James Lewis (Rep. Lee) – 202.225.2661 – james.c.lewis@mail.house.gov Brandon Batch (Rep. McCaul) – 202.225.2401 – Brandon.batch@mail.house.gov
10.07.2015	To watch the full clip of Rep. Reichert’s opening remarks, click HERE. Washington, DC – Yesterday U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chair of the Law Enforcement Task Force, led a hearing titled “Examining the State of Relations Between the People and Their Protectors.” As a cop of 33 years, Rep. Reichert founded the Task Force due to his concerns regarding the growing tension between law enforcement and the communities they serve. To watch a video of Rep. Reichert’s opening remarks, click here. A partial transcript of the video is provided below: “…The tragedies that have occurred since Ferguson last year have deeply concerned all of us and I know that they have equally troubled folks throughout the nation from detectives Liu and Ramos to Freddy Grey to the brutal murder of Deputy Goforth in Pierce County Texas, we have seen too much unnecessary loss of life and we have struggled to understand that. That’s why this task force hearing is part of our continuous effort to restore trust and civility within our local communities so that these tragedies do not become the status quo. We want to bring an end to this and bring peace and security back into our communities and neighborhoods.” The full video of the hearing can be found on the Republican Policy Committee’s YouTube channel. Rep. Reichert’s closing remarks begin at 1:06.35. Background: On July 29th Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), House Law Enforcement Caucus Co-Chair and former Sheriff of King County, and House Republican Policy Committee Chairman Luke Messer (IN-06) launched the Republican Policy Committee Law Enforcement Task Force. The Task Force is chaired by Rep. Reichert and was formed following several high-profile conflicts across the nation between local law enforcement and the communities they serve – particularly events in Ferguson, MO and Baltimore, MD. Additional Task Force members include: Sen. Roy Blunt (MO) and Reps. Susan Brooks (IN), Jeff Miller (FL), Peter King (NY), Ted Poe (TX), Rich Nugent (FL), Steve Knight (CA), John Katko (NY), and Mia Love (UT). Together, the Task Force members have over 90 years of law enforcement experience. The Task Force includes 4 former law enforcement officers, 2 former U.S. attorneys, 1 former judge, and 1 former mayor. The Law Enforcement Task Force will examine the primary drivers of the recent tensions between police and community through hearings, roundtable discussions, meetings with key stakeholders. The Task Force will share their findings and recommendations with Congress and the public. ###
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Reichert (R-WA), member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, co-chair of the Friends of TPP Caucus, and member of the President’s Export Council, issued the following statement in response to hearing the news that an agreement was reached on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “With a high-standard, comprehensive TPP agreement, we can eliminate trade barriers and ensure that our trading partners are abiding by the same rules, which will allow our businesses, farmers, and manufacturers to sell more American goods and create more jobs here at home,” said Congressman Reichert. “Here in my home state of Washington, our farmers, businesses, and workers heavily rely on international trade. Trade with TPP countries supports over 341,000 jobs in Washington and this is important because we know that jobs tied to trade on average pay 15-20% more." Rep. Reichert continued, “This agreement, over 6 years in the making, holds significant promise for America’s future as a leader in the world’s economy. I look forward to reviewing the final text of the agreement and consulting with all of you to ensure that it will strengthen our economy and grow American jobs. I want to thank Ambassador Froman and his team for their continuous efforts on behalf of the United States and I'm hopeful that this agreement is one I can support to help open new doors for folks here in Washington State and around the country.” ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which authorizes and prioritizes funding for the Department of Defense (DoD) and other national security programs for Fiscal Year 2016. Due to a death in the family, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) needed to be home in Washington State with his wife, children, and grandchildren, and was unable to participate in the vote. He issued the following statement after the bill passed the House: “The federal government’s first, and most fundamental, job is to protect the nation’s national security. Today, the House of Representatives voted to keep the American people safe by providing the resources needed to remain the world’s strongest military,” said Congressman Reichert. “Ensuring that our troops have the necessary support to fulfill their critical mission is especially important at a time when we face threats on both the home front and abroad.” Rep. Reichert continued, “As a former member of the U.S. Air Force Reserve, I am also pleased to see that this bill takes steps to give a pay raise to our military members and improve military recruitment by modernizing the compensation and benefits systems to compete with the private sector. These updates are necessary to continue attracting the best and the brightest to our nation’s Armed Forces.” ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution to maintain funding for critical government programs and avert a government shutdown. Due to a death in the family, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) needed to be home in Washington State with his wife, children, and grandchildren, and was unable to participate in the vote. He issued the following statement after the bill passed the House: “I am pleased to see that my colleagues in the House chose the responsible path, rather than one motivated by politics. It has always been my belief that as representatives of the people of this great nation, it is our duty to serve the best interests of our constituents. That is why I would have supported this legislation,” said Congressman Reichert. “Shutting down the government threatens our national security, compromises pay for our current and former servicemembers, delays federal assistance to low income families and seniors, and could lead to economic instability. This is not a sacrifice I am willing to make.” Rep. Reichert continued, “Although a continuing resolution is not a long term solution, I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle over these coming months to pass a comprehensive funding bill that strengthens our economy, addresses government spending, and keeps the government running.” ###
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) held a meeting with national police association leaders as part of the Republican Policy Committee Law Enforcement Task Force, which the Congressman chairs. Reichert, who has 33 years of law enforcement experience, held the meeting to hear how tensions between law enforcement and communities can be resolved. “Tensions between police and the communities in which they serve are at a breaking point. As elected officials, we must lead on this issue and resolve the crisis so that law enforcement officers and members of their communities can remain safe”, Reichert said. “The conversation yesterday was a great step in trying to find solutions to today’s problems and I appreciate the honesty and information provided by the speakers. There is no doubt that more work needs to be done and I look forward to the Task Force holding more meetings with voices from all over the country in the coming months.” Participants in the meeting included Bill Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations, and James Baker, Director of Law Enforcement Operations for the International Association of Police. The Law Enforcement Task Force expects to take a deep dive into the drivers of the tensions between police officers and the communities that they serve. The task force plans to hold field hearings, round-table discussions and meetings with relevant stakeholders in the hopes of coming back with recommendations that will help improve the vital relationship between communities and law enforcement. Members of the Law Enforcement Task Force have over 90 years combined experience in law enforcement. Members include Republican Policy Chairman Luke Messer (IN-06), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Reps. Susan Brooks (IN-05), Jeff Miller (FL-01), Pete King (NY-02), Ted Poe (TX-02), Richard Nugent (FL-11), Steve Knight (CA-25), Mia Love (UT-04) and John Katko (NY-24).
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee passed the Educator Tax Relief Act (H.R. 2490), which U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert introduced in July. During today’s committee mark-up Reichert said the following: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And before I start, let me thank several of my colleagues here today - Mr. Pascrell, Mr. McDermott, Mr. Kind, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Kelly, Mr. Dold and Ms. Jenkins - for cosponsoring this important piece of legislation with me. I would also like to enter into the record a letter of support from the National Education Association on behalf of its three million members. Each summer teachers across the country prepare for the upcoming school year. We owe a lot of thanks to these teachers who work so hard to welcome our kids and grandkids into their classrooms. They go above and beyond to create the best learning environment for their students to be successful. Often, teachers dig into their own pockets to pay for school supplies. They shouldn’t have to do this, but if they do they should be compensated. This legislation provides the necessary tax relief and certainty our educators deserve. Specifically, it makes permanent and indexes to inflation the current above-the-line deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers. Since 2002, this deduction has helped to offset the costs of supplies, books, and computer equipment for teachers who use their own hard-earned dollars to pay for these items. “This bill also builds upon the current deduction by expanding it to cover professional development courses. When teachers continue their education and enhance their skills through professional development it benefits all of us. The more our educators learn, the more our students learn. Like many of you, I remember the teachers who successfully pushed me to work a little harder and inspired me to try my best. The Educator Tax Relief Act is about recognizing this difficult yet important work. “Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for including this important provision in the markup today. I yield back.” BACKGROUND Every year educators across the country foot the bill for basic classroom supplies out of dedication to teaching and to their students. The National School Supply and Equipment Association released data from the 2012-2013 school year showing public school teachers spent $1.6 billion out-of-pocket on classroom materials. Additionally, educator quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified educators will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our educators and our children. The legislation is written to adjust for inflation so that the deduction keeps pace with the growing cost to educators.
09.15.2015	Wenatchee - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) is pleased to announce that Wenatchee High School’s very own Director Ramon Rivera and Mariachi Huenachi will be recognized today by the White House for their ongoing commitment to educational excellence within the Hispanic community. The White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics will be acknowledging this commitment by presenting them with the Bright Spot in Hispanic Education award and featuring them in the “Bright Spots in Hispanic Education National Online Catalog.” Rep. Reichert said “It has been my pleasure to work with Director Ramon Rivera and the Mariachi Huenachi group over the past few years. I am proud of the work they have done for their community and for the state of Washington. Since its inception, Mariachi Heunachi has served over 300 youth and has maintained an extraordinary 100% graduation rate. Their commitment to educational excellence and the impact they have made on the lives of hundreds of youth should be a model for the rest of the state and country. I was honored to nominate them for this award and could not think of a more deserving group. Their success should be an inspiration to all of us.” Director Ramon Rivera said "I feel so blessed that that our Mariachi Program is receiving this high honor from the White House. It is a privilege to be featured as a one of the top Hispanic programs in the nation." All the Bright Spots will be announced today at 1pm EDT during a press conference in Washington, D.C. The catalog will also be available at 1pm EDT today and can be accessed at; www.ed.gov/HispanicInitiative.
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement explaining his decision to oppose the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “The President took an oath to protect and defend the United States of America. If the President signs this agreement he will not have kept that oath. This deal allows Iran a pathway to nuclear weapons; it removes sanctions on access to conventional weapons; it allows for the continued development of Iran's intercontinental ballistic missile program designed to deliver nuclear warheads. It lifts financial sanctions allowing Iran to receive up to $150 billion dollars. The President failed to reveal the entire agreement language to Congress, even though side deals were made. Iran will be allowed and trusted to inspect their own nuclear facilities. Just two days ago Iran's Supreme leader said America is still our enemy and Israel will not exist in 25 years. Like the President, I also took an oath to protect and defend the United States of America, and I kept my oath by opposing this bad deal. It’s a bad deal for America, for our friend and ally Israel and for the world.”
09.11.2015	Washington - Saturday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement after the Washington State Department of Corrections transferred Gary Ridgway, the serial killer that terrorized residents of Washington State for two decades, to a Colorado prison, allowing him more freedoms, including a job and interaction with the general population: "I am incensed and outraged on behalf of the victim's families, the task force detectives, patrol officers, scientists, hundreds of volunteers who dedicated their lives to bring this monster to justice and all law abiding citizens. These hardworking dedicated servants spent 20 years of their lives devoted to stopping Gary Ridgway from committing more crimes and solving those he did. It is unbelievable and absolutely intolerable that the Washington State Department of Corrections determined that because Gary Ridgway, this country's most notorious serial killer who confessed to 49 murders, was such a model inmate, he was relocated to a Colorado prison at a cost of 20k for a private jet to transport him, so he can now socially interact with others and get a job. This is another example of murderers in Washington State not being treated appropriately for the heinous crimes they have been found guilty of. Ridgway should feel fortunate to spend the remainder of his life in solitary confinement."
09.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), Chair of the Republican Policy Committee Law Enforcement Task Force, and Congressman Denny Heck (WA-10) hosted a roundtable with law enforcement officials and community leaders to discuss current, national tensions between communities and law enforcement and how Congress can help support both law enforcement and communities in efforts to reduce those tensions and address underlying causes. “Yesterday, a Lake County Sheriff’s Office police officer in Illinois was murdered. This tragedy follows murders of police in Atlanta and Harris County, Texas. We can all agree that this is unacceptable. We have tracked the violence in our country from Ferguson until today and it is clear there is a crisis in our communities. We must get to the bottom of the underlying issues and find ways to take action to address them. I am pleased Congressman Heck was able to join me yesterday to hear from a wide range of men and women who have seen this first hand. This is a problem not just in Pierce County, or Washington State, but across this country, and we cannot ignore it if we are to keep our loved ones safe.” The other roundtable participants were Pierce County Sheriff Paul Pastor, NAACP member Pastor Gregory Christopher, Tacoma Ministerial Alliance member Elder Toney Montgomery, Dr. Priscilla Lisicich of Safe Streets, Minister Marvin Charles of D.A.D.S., King County Police Officers Guild President Steve Eggert, Puyallup Deputy Chief of Police Dave McDonald, and Washington State Commissioner of Hispanic Affairs Manuel Reta. The Law Enforcement Task Force Members are Republican Policy Committee Chairman Luke Messer (IN-6), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), and Representatives Susan Brooks (IN-5), Jeff Miller (FL-1), Pete King (NY-2), Ted Poe (TX-2), Richard Nugent (FL-11), Steve Knight (CA-25), Mia Love (UT-4), and John Katko (NY-24).
08.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Patty Murray, Maria Cantwell and U.S. Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dave Reichert, Jaime Herrera Beutler, and Dan Newhouse joined together to write a letter to President Obama asking him to quickly approve Governor Jay Inslee’s federal emergency disaster declaration. The members of Congress said, “The ongoing wildfires are affecting Washingtonians all across the state, endangering lives and property. Our first responders have acted with selflessness and courage, battling to keep our communities safe while putting their own lives at risk. Nowhere is this more evident than with the sacrifice of the three United States Forest Service firefighters whose lives were lost last night. That is why it is critical that we can support those still on the ground to the fullest extent as well as assist our communities as they rebuild and recover from their devastating losses.” Governor Inslee’s request was made on August 19th. The full text of the Congressional letter of support is below: August 20, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to approve as quickly as possible the federal emergency disaster declaration requested by Washington Governor Jay Inslee on August 19, 2015. As you know, Washington state is experiencing a historically intense wildfire season. Wildfires burning in Counties throughout Central and Eastern Washington have stretched our state’s wildfire fighting resources thin and have affected communities still recovering from last year’s Carlton Complex fire - the worst by fire acres burned in Washington state’s history. Hundreds of lightning strikes sparked numerous fires in the region over a period of six hours on August 13, 2015 and the National Weather Service projects that a similar storm system is moving into the area within the next two days. Taken together, wildfires this season have burned over 235,000 acres, 50 residences, 60 other structures, and currently threaten over 3,600 homes across eleven counties and four Federally-recognized tribes: Asotin, Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Klickitat, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, Skamania, and Yakima Counties; and the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Kalispel Tribe of Indians, the Spokane Tribe of Indians, and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Nation. Major fires such as the Chelan Complex wildfire and the Wolverine Fire have burned over 58,000 and 40,000 acres, respectively, and threaten whole communities in the region. Local economies, still recovering from last year’s fires, have been further devastated. The Chelan Complex and Wolverine Fire have struck in the midst of the region’s economically vital summer tourist season and have further harmed an agricultural sector already weakened by extreme heat and drought. The destruction of the Chelan Fruit warehouse in Chelan alone may result in up to $80 million in losses and 800 jobs impacted. While thousands of firefighting personnel are working tirelessly to gain control of these fires, containment among major fires currently ranges from 0- to 30-percent. We are proud of the first responders from multiple local, state, and federal agencies who have responded courageously to this disaster and mourn for the three firefighters who lost their lives combating the Twisp fire on August 19. Despite their heroic efforts and sacrifice, a disaster of this magnitude requires federal assistance. We therefore urge you to issue a federal emergency disaster declaration as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your quick attention to this matter. Sincerely, Patty Murray United States Senator Maria Cantwell United States Senator Dave Reichert Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Dan Newhouse Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress
08.17.2015	Wenatchee, WA – Over the weekend, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) toured the active fire zones around Lake Chelan with Chelan County Sheriff Brian Burnett, after attending a briefing on their status and overall damage. After seeing the devastation and gathering details about the United States Forest Service’s (USFS) plan to combat the fires, he issued the following statement: “This has been a record-breaking fire season for our country, and we are feeling the effects right here at home. I have been spending time in Chelan County over the last few days and have seen the flames and the smoke resulting from the fires as well as the many lakeside homes that have been completely destroyed. The fires currently surrounding Lake Chelan are causing health risks from the smoke’s air pollution in addition to the physical destruction. However, I continue to be impressed by the coordination of the various agencies involved with fighting the fires and know that they will do everything within their power to protect the lives and property of the residents of this community. I will continue to monitor the situation and will continue to support the community’s requests for federal relief.” The two currently active fires in Chelan County are the Chelan Complex Fire (which has also spread to Douglas and Okanagan Counties) and the Wolverine Fire. Combined, the two fires are affecting over 96,000 acres, with over 1,200 personnel deployed to fight them. Multiple areas have been evacuated. For the most up-to-date emergency information, residents are directed to the Chelan County Emergency Management Facebook page.
08.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Members of Congress Dave Reichert (WA-8), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Dan Newhouse (WA-4), and Amata Radewagen (AS) have introduced the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipment (PORTS) Act (H.R. 3433). The prolonged contract negotiations and slowdown of cargo handling at the West Coast ports late last year and earlier this year caused significant disruptions throughout the economy. Accordingly it became evident that Congress must find a way to prevent this from happening again. The Members of Congress said, “For our constituents who depend on trade, it is critical that we maintain the efficient movement of goods into and out of our ports. If we do not, our economy and our communities suffer just as they did during the most recent West Coast ports contract negotiations. The impact of these negotiations and the work slowdown that accompanied them was felt across the country: producers feared lost business,perishable products rotted or expired, manufacturers faced delays, and retailers worried about stocking their shelves. While the parties ultimately came to an agreement and concluded the contract negotiations, the process took far too long and the damage to the rest of our economy far too great. The update to the Taft-Hartley Act and a study on the slowdown called for in the act will help to ensure that future negotiations cannot cause such harm to our businesses, growers, manufacturers, and producers across the nation.” The companion piece to the PORTS Act was introduced in the Senate by Senator Cory Gardner (CO). The Senator stated, “I’m pleased to see the PORTS Act introduced in the House, and I commend Reps. Reichert, Coffman, Newhouse, and Radewagen for their leadership on this important issue. This legislation recognizes the tremendous benefits of trade, and paves the way for local leaders to prevent and mitigate damaging disputes at our ports – protecting American businesses, consumers, and our economy.” The Taft-Hartley Act currently allows the president to intervene when there is a “threatened or actual strike or lockout affecting an entire industry…[which] will, if permitted to occur or to continue, imperil the national health or safety.” The PORTS Act clarifies current law to ensure the president can intervene to protect the economy in the case of a slowdown. The bill would also allow governors to appoint boards of inquiry under Taft-Hartley as well as petition a court of jurisdiction to intervene in the case of a slowdown, strike, or lockout. The final piece of the legislation calls for a study on the recent West Coast ports slowdown in order to understand its impact and prevent future occurrences. The full text of the legislation can be found here. From May of 2014 through February of 2015, the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) negotiated a multi-year contract covering the 29 West Coast container ports and the longshore, clerk, and foreman workers who are employed at these ports. On May 20th and 22nd, the respective parties each ratified the agreement reached in February. According to the Federal Reserve, exports from West Coast ports dropped by 20.5% in the first quarter of 2015.
08.04.2015	Issaquah, WA – Friday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) welcomed his 2015-2016 Youth Advisory Board (YAB). Rep. Reichert first formed the YAB in 2011 to recognize that constituents of all ages are affected by the policy created at the federal level and to get their feedback and perspectives on the issues of the day and the work of Congress. After the new group’s welcome, Rep. Reichert said, “I am looking forward to working with this group of intelligent, driven young men and women. They are willing to take time out of their normal routines to discuss the issues facing our nation and that says something very positive about the future. These are the people who will be leading our future generations and I know that we will have a productive and informative time together.” This year’s YAB new members are listed below: Sydney Campbell, Auburn Kate Christiansen, Sammamish Brennan Cronk, Issaquah Ethan England, Sammamish Gwyn Fraley, Sammamish Andrew Franke, Sammamish Maria Gregg, Sammamish Anthony Humay, Sammamish William Kelly, Kent Dylann Loverro, Ellensburg Jack Morgan, Issaquah Divya Parimi, Sammamish Giuliana Sercu, Sammamish Hashwinder Singh, Bonney Lake Sarah Strickler, Bonney Lake Eleonora Viotto, Sammamish
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, U.S. Members of Congress Dave Reichert (WA-8), Derek Kilmer (WA-6), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3) introduced the National Multimodal Freight Policy and Investment Act, H.R. 3398. The bipartisan legislation creates a multimodal freight investment grant program which would help states and communities reduce truck and rail network delays, eliminate congestion, reduce highway/rail conflicts, and invest in strategic new freight corridors in both urban and rural environments. Rep. Reichert said “There is 54 million tons of freight moving across our country on any given day, and this number is only going to increase. Our ability to grow our economy, create jobs, and compete with other nations in a global marketplace is dependent on keeping our transportation system in good repair. However, we have a long ways to go in upgrading our infrastructure and making sure our transportation and movement of goods is as efficient as possible. This legislation will take a much-needed step in doing that and I am glad to partner with my Washington state colleagues to lead this effort.” “Washington state’s economy depends on transporting goods to market,” said Kilmer. “In order to support job growth in our region, we need infrastructure that can efficiently get products out of warehouses and onto rail lines, highways, and waterways so they get into the hands of customers. Right now, too much of our outdated freight infrastructure results in delays and congestion. Our bipartisan legislation calls for a national focus on smart freight policy that will help businesses and keep us competitive in a 21st century economy.” “As the U.S. House and Senate are developing a long-term transportation plan, the movement of freight must be a key component,” said Jaime. “The amount of goods moving through Southwest Washington is increasing by the day, and we need our infrastructure to keep up. By making this plan part of a transportation package, we’re better allowing our cities and towns to plan for future growth and economic success, and doing it without any additional costs to taxpayers. Whether its separating grade crossings, reducing congestion on the highway, or increasing port capacity, we can ensure commerce is flowing quickly and – more importantly – safely.”
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Republican Policy Committee Chairman Luke Messer (IN-06) announced the official launch of the Republican Policy Committee Law Enforcement Task Force at a press conference on Capitol Hill. The task force will be chaired by Congressman Reichert who has over 30 years of experience in local law enforcement. “Before coming to Congress, I spent 33 years in law enforcement so I understand what it takes to make a good cop and to ensure they have the tools they need to serve and protect their communities,” said Congressman Reichert. “We need a return to civility in our nation. This task force is made up of people from many different perspectives who want to find the facts to achieve that goal – looking for ways to support our communities and our law enforcement so that they can find mutual respect for one another. I’m excited to begin our work, and I know that facts lead to answers and answers to solutions.” “We all know that tensions between local law enforcement and the communities they serve have rarely been higher in this country,” said Congressman Messer. "That’s not good for America, and, as a nation, we have to do better. I believe I speak for everyone on the task force when I say, we, as Republicans, want to be part of the solution.” The Law Enforcement Task Force expects to take a deep dive into the drivers of the tensions between police officers and the communities that they serve. The task force plans to hold field hearings, round-table discussions and meetings with relevant stakeholders in the hopes of coming back with recommendations that will help improve the vital relationship between communities and law enforcement. Members of the Law Enforcement Task Force have over 90 years combined experience in law enforcement. Members include Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Reps. Susan Brooks (IN-05), Jeff Miller (FL-01), Pete King (NY-02), Ted Poe (TX-02), Richard Nugent (FL-11), Steve Knight (CA-25) and Mia Love (UT-04). A video of the press conference can be found here.
07.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Ahead of the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “This landmark legislation was critical to ensuring all Americans living with disabilities were guaranteed equal access to opportunities to live a full and meaningful life without being discriminated against. With over 55 million people living in our nation with disabilities, it is sometimes hard to realize that before 1990, so many barriers stood in their way to leading happy, successful lives. “My own godson lives with significant disabilities and if this law had not been enacted before he was born, his life would have turned out very differently – it would have been difficult to access transportation, public and private spaces, and receive an education. It is so important that we continue building upon the successes of the ADA and that we do everything within our power for those who need us to fight just a little bit extra for them, and that is why we must remember this anniversary.”
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, after the House passage of H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “Today, I voted for the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act and supported consumer choice. By establishing a national standard for labeling, it will help ensure that there is consistency across the country for consumers and producers. This is an important step to making sure consumers can make educated choices about the food they are eating and putting on the table for their families.” The guidelines set out in H.R. 1599 establish a voluntary non-genetically engineered food certification program within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The bill does not impact the authority of the Food and Drug Administration to require labels under certain circumstances and further directs the FDA to establish rules for defining “natural” foods. For additional information about the bill, please click here.
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) applauds the House Passage of legislation to reauthorize the Highway Trust Fund through the end of the year: “Yesterday, we voted to ensure our country’s infrastructure needs are met. I supported this legislation, because it continues funding for construction projects through the end of the year while giving us time to come together on a solution that funds a multi-year transportation bill. In my district, it doesn’t take more than a short drive along Highway 18 or Interstate 90 to see the very real need for Congress to act on a plan. A plan that includes a multi-year highway bill that offers communities greater certainty to plan for the future, improves our roads and bridges, reduces congestion, and eases the movement of goods. By the end of this year, I want to say our plan has become law. So this week, we took the first step by passing this bill. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly.”
07.15.2015	National Parks are a national treasureThe Hill Op-Ed by Rep. Dave Reichert and Rep. Ron Kind July 15, 2015 National parks aren’t just pristine forests and wilderness areas, they’re battlefields and important monuments that embody our American heritage. They’re seashores, deserts, valleys, and mountains. They’re cultural and educational sites that remind us of who we are and where we came from. Together, the National Park System provides unparalleled and invaluable educational, natural, historical, cultural, and recreational experiences. Our parks need constant vigilance and protection and should not be taken for granted. As co-chairs of the Congressional National Parks Caucus, we’re honored to congratulate the representatives and senators who will receive the Friends of the National Parks Award from the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). This year, 228 members of Congress spanning the political spectrum and the nation are being recognized for their support of our National Park System during the 113th Congress (January 2013 to December 2014). It’s easy to see why there’s broad support for America’s favorite places. In fact, our national parks are some of the most visited destinations in the country and last year national parks received 292.8 million visits, which broke the previous record of 287.2 million visits in 1987. When people travel to national parks, they stay in hotels, eat in restaurants, shop in local stores, hire guides, and provide other important economic activity in gateway communities. Last year alone, national parks were responsible for supporting 277,000 private-sector jobs and generating nearly $30 billion for our national economy – an increase of nearly $3 billion compared to 2013. Additionally, according to NPCA, every federal dollar invested in national parks becomes $10 for the economy through visitor spending, travel and tourism, and construction jobs. Just as our monuments commemorate courageous endeavors that have changed our world, we also need to exhibit the courage to stand together to support our national parks during their centennial year, which coincides with the remainder of the 114th Congress. The National Park System’s centennial in 2016 is a historic opportunity for Congress to reaffirm our promise to our forefathers and future generations by leaving our national parks – the sites that embody our American legacy – better than we inherited them. It is important that we not only support our national parks by visiting and sharing them with our families, friends, and constituents, but that we use our voting power to enhance and preserve them. Let’s mark the National Park System’s 100th anniversary by ensuring national parks have the resources to thrive. We’re privileged to lead the Congressional National Parks Caucus, and it’s an honor to work with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle and from across the country to protect and enhance our national parks. Congratulations, again, to our fellow Friends of the National Parks Award recipients and we look forward to working together to support our national parks. Reichert has represented Washington’s 8th Congressional District since 2005. He sits on the Ways and Means Committee. Kind has represented Wisconsin’s 3rd Congressional District since 1997. He sits on the Ways and Means Committee. Reichert and Kind are co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional National Parks Caucus.
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) applauded the House Passage of the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6) with the following statement: “As co-chair of the Children’s Healthcare Caucus and someone who believes strongly in the importance of finding new cures and treatments for cancers and other life-threatening conditions, the bipartisan legislation we passed today will make a huge investment in our nation’s future and offers hope to millions of individuals and families courageously battling diseases. It puts money into research and eases regulatory burdens to spur innovation and new discoveries to help Americans overcome their health challenges and live long, healthy, and fulfilling lives.”
07.10.2015	Export-Import Bank helps employers compete globally The Hill Op-Ed by Rep. Dave Reichert and Kris Johnson July 10, 2015 With the creation of the U.S. Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank over 80 years ago, many Washington state businesses – both large and small - have remarkable success stories to tell about growing their businesses because of exports. These stories can be found throughout the Washington state in a variety of industries. Take for example, Seattle’s Lighthouse for the Blind, a manufacturer of machine parts and molding for aerospace companies. Because of its robust export business supported by the bank, it is able provide more than 400 good-paying jobs for Washingtonians in the deaf-blind community. Across the Cascades, in the 8th Congressional District, No. 9 Hay, based in Ellensburg, was first introduced to the Ex-Im Bank when they started their export business. Now a significant exporter, Bob Haberman of No. 9 Hay has said “how beneficial the bank can be for U.S. businesses trying to develop and expand foreign markets.” Stories like these can be found throughout Washington state and across the country, because the bank’s financial bridge provides critical certainty and protections to small employers, allowing them to enter new markets abroad and create jobs at home. Other businesses depend on the bank, too, because they serve as suppliers for exporters. For example, in our state alone there are an estimated 1,900 companies tied to the aerospace industry as suppliers. Many of these companies are small- and medium-sized businesses which play a central part in the supply chain and their successes ultimately depend on the bank as well. Just last year, the Ex-Im Bank supported over $15 billion in exports from Washington, sustaining and creating good paying jobs. Since 2007, the Bank has supported over 230 exporters and $135 billion in exports from Washington. Of the 234 exporters, 154 were small businesses; this is important because in Washington state 90 percent of exporters are small- and medium-sized businesses. This all corresponds to hundreds and thousands of jobs supported across the state, and countless more across the nation. Without Congressional action on a long-term reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank charter, we are putting these jobs at risk. We recognize the need for reforms that create greater accountability and transparency. They, too, deserve debate and consideration. However, to have these discussions, we must move to reauthorize the bank. Time is of the essence. With the help of Ex-Im Bank, even our smallest exporters located in rural areas of the state and nation can have a vital tool that helps them create jobs and actively participate in their small community’s recovery, giving hope to families. This is a competitiveness issue, and we need to support our exporters so that they may continue to thrive and grow, because across the globe the number of export credit agencies run by other countries continues to increase. This puts our exporters at a disadvantage. Aside from the broader economic benefits and job creation, the Ex-Im Bank returns money to the U.S. Treasury. According to the bank, in 2014, it returned $675 million to the Treasury. We consider this to be a win-win for hard-working Americans. As representatives of a state that is one of the nation’s top export marketplaces, the Ex-Im Bank is critical to employers working to expand sale of their goods overseas and, as a result, create good-paying jobs that allow widespread and shared prosperity. Congress must act to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank charter. The consequences of doing nothing would be devastating to employers and employees in Washington state and around the nation. Reichert has represented Washington’s 8th Congressional District since 2005. He sits on the Ways and Means Committee. Johnson is the president of the Association of Washington Business, which represents nearly 8,000 Washington employers of all sizes.
07.09.2015	Washington, D.C. –Representatives Dave Reichert, Jim McDermott, Bob Dold, Ron Kind, Rodney Davis, David Valadao, and Bill Pascrell introduced the Educator Tax Relief Act, H.R. 2490, to make permanent the deduction allowed for educators who purchase classroom supplies out of pocket and expand the deduction to the include professional development expenses. The members of Congress said, “Educators put a lot of time and effort into making sure our children have the opportunity to learn and grow and prepare themselves for success. It seems only fair that we do not ask them to use their own hard-earned dollars to purchase the basics needed to do their job or develop in their careers. This bill will allow us to alleviate an unnecessary financial burden and continue to invest in the education of America’s children.” NEA President Lily Eskelsen Garcia said, “Every day, educators across America reach into their own pockets to purchase classroom supplies such as books, pencils, paper, and art supplies for their students and classrooms. The $250.00 a year educator tax deduction included in the bipartisan Educator Tax Relief Act of 2015 will make a big difference to educators who often must sacrifice their own personal needs to pay for classroom supplies. More to the point, by including an inflationary adjustment to the educator tax and making it permanent, we finally will recognize that this is an act of love and sacrifice by educators that we should support and reward.” BACKGROUND Every year educators across the country foot the bill for basic classroom supplies out of dedication to teaching and to their students. The National School Supply and Equipment Association released data from the 2012-2013 school year showing public school teachers spent $1.6 billion out-of-pocket on classroom materials. Additionally, educator quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified educators will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our educators and our children. The legislation is written to adjust for inflation so that the deduction keeps pace with the growing cost to educators.
06.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), a long-time leading advocate for expanded trade, issued the following statement after H.R. 2146, the Defending Public Safety Employees’ Retirement Act, which included the renewal of trade promotion authority, and H.R. 1295, the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, which included the Congressman’s trade adjustment assistance provisions, were signed into law: “Today, I had the opportunity to join the President for a historic moment. Years of hard-work have been put into the legislation that was signed today, making trade promotion authority a reality. With this tool in hand, we set the priorities for our trade negotiations and ensure that our current negotiations, such as the TPP, T-TIP, and TiSA, result in high-standard and comprehensive agreements. Of special importance to me is that trade promotion authority was attached to my legislation which protects the retirements of those who work to protect us. The second piece of legislation that was signed into law today continues to make sure those who need a little help in today’s changing world are able to receive it and have the opportunity to get back on their feet, by including the trade adjustment assistance provisions I introduced in the House. I’m excited to continue working with my colleagues to champion expanded trade and other policies that create jobs and grow our economy.” More on H.R. 2146, here. More on H.R. 1295, here.
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Adam Smith (WA-9) reintroduced legislation to designate the Mountains to Sound Greenway as a National Heritage Area. Rep. Reichert said, “I am very proud to introduce this legislation with my colleague Mr. Smith today to recognize this beautiful gem of Washington State. It is a key part of both our natural and economic heritage and history, playing a vital role in many of our state’s most important industries and the area’s great natural beauty is an attraction to all. To achieve the Heritage Area designation for the Greenway would preserve this legacy for our children and grandchildren and add another gem to our national treasures.” "The Greenway is a critical part of Washington state's environment and economy and should be recognized as such," said Rep. Smith. "By designating the Greenway as a National Heritage Site, this legislation would preserve our region's scenic natural lands and wildlife habitat, while recognizing its economic benefit through promoting outdoor recreation, tourism, agriculture and more. The diverse coalition of organizations and community members supporting this effort speaks to the value our community places on protecting our environment for generations to come." “This region is unique in many ways to the rest of the nation, with our spectacular outdoors, world-class recreation, vibrant economy, and deep heritage of placing great value on our healthy relationship with the vast natural landscapes on the doorsteps of our cities,” said Greenway Trust Board President Kurt Fraese. “We greatly appreciate the efforts of Senator Cantwell and Congressman Reichert, who are strong champions in caring for this unique heritage and pushing for the creation of the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area.” The Mountains to Sound Greenway is a 1.5 million-acre landscape with alpine peaks, wilderness lakes, and lush forests and serves as the backdrop for the lives of approximately 1.4 million residents living in the surrounding communities. A National Heritage Area is a large, lived-in area designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a landscape of national distinction. This designation provides a flexible strategy to encourage residents, government agencies, nonprofit groups and private partners to collaboratively plan and implement projects to preserve a landscape, without affecting private property rights.
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court's King v. Burwell decision in favor of Burwell: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling does not change the fact that Obamacare continues to hurt hard working American families and businesses. Premiums have increased, patients have lost access to their preferred doctors and hospitals, and workers have had their hours cut because of this fundamentally flawed law. As a member of the Ways and Means Committee I am committed to working with my colleagues to enact solutions that put patients first, give individuals the freedom to choose the health care plan they want, and ensure both high-quality and affordable care.”
06.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, gave the following opening statement at his hearing on the looking at repatriation as a viable funding source for a multi-year highway bill: "Today, we have the opportunity to follow up on last week’s hearing where we discussed long-term funding solutions to the Highway Trust Fund. Like many of my colleagues, I too believe we should secure a long-term, stable funding source, but we need time to develop a solution. As we continue these conversations on both sides of the Capitol, it is hard to ignore a topic often tied to these discussions—the repatriation of overseas earnings as a source of funding for a multi-year highway bill. "However, as you will hear today, current repatriation proposals are not that simple nor are they without serious policy implications. That is why we are having this hearing—to drill down on what people mean when they say repatriation and how the different forms of repatriation work. A key, but often overlooked, part of this is that repatriation includes taxing earnings that have been reinvested abroad. "What we know to be true is that repatriation cannot be done as a standalone; it must be part of a transition to a more competitive system. I expect to hear today that, taken outside of the context of a transition, mandatory repatriation would be a tax increase. A tax increase that American companies would be forced to pay unlike their foreign competitors. "Therefore, this hearing also provides a chance to talk about our current international tax system and how it should be modernized to boost the competitiveness of American companies. This is timely, because outside of our discussions, the OECD BEPS project is moving forward and impacting the decisions of American companies operating globally. "Thank you to our witnesses and I look forward to hearing from you about the key differences between current repatriation proposals."
06.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after the House and Senate sent the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 to the White House to be signed into law: “It is a win for the American people and the American economy that trade promotion authority (TPA) is on its way to the President’s desk. With this tool in hand, we set the priorities, we hold the Administration accountable, and we guarantee our constituents a voice in any trade agreement that is negotiated. This has been something I, and my Ways and Means colleagues, have put years of work and effort into and it is exciting to see that pay off. I am also proud because this bill includes provisions I authored to ensure much deserved fairness for public safety officers.”
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed the Bipartisan Trade Priorities Act of 2015 as an amendment to U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert’s (WA-8) H.R. 2146, the Defending Public Safety Employees’ Retirement Act. H.R. 2146 originally passed the House during National Police Week but was amended in the Senate. Now, along with the critical trade promotion authority legislation, it will soon be on its way to the President’s desk. It passed the House by a vote of 218 to 208. Upon passage, Reichert said, “Today is a huge moment for America. Trade promotion authority will allow us to conclude trade agreements that help grow American jobs and help us sell more American goods and services. The more we sell American, the more high-paying jobs we create here at home. And we know that these jobs pay more - on average 15-20% more. And not only did we pass that out of the House today, we also ensured fairness for federal public safety officials by allowing them to access retirement savings at the age of 50 without being penalized by a 10% tax. This is only fair since state and local safety officers already have this ability. I spent 33 years in law enforcement, and I know how hard these men and women work to keep us safe. This is a common-sense thing we can do to say ‘thank you’. It is critical that we quickly send this legislation to the President’s desk.”
06.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-R) and Ron Kind (WI-D) introduced the S Corporation Modernization Act (H.R. 2788) this afternoon. This proposed legislation would give tax relief to the nearly 4.5 million S corporations across the nation by allowing them to have better access to capital, compete, and hire new workers. “There are more than 95,000 S corporations in Washington State,” said Reichert. “And with 1 in 4 workers being employed by these small businesses nationwide, it is absolutely critical that we ensure these businesses have the tools that will promote their growth, not stifle it. This is a common-sense bill, and I am proud to introduce it with my colleague Mr. Kind. We must continue to support our small businesses and allow these proven job creators to access the capital they need to grow, compete, and get Americans back to work.” “It is critical that we ease the tax burden on our small and family owned Wisconsin businesses who are driving our economic growth,” Rep. Kind stated. “Under this legislation, S corporations will be better able to access credit, invest in their business, and create the good paying jobs that we need.” President of the S Corporation Association, Brian Reardon, said, “We commend Reps. Reichert and Kind for their steady advocacy on behalf of Main Street businesses with their reintroduction of the S Corporation Modernization Act of 2015. As the House has passed pieces of this bill multiple times, it is important legislation that will help take the hand-cuffs off of millions of S corporation job-creators across the country and allow them to access more capital, grow their businesses and create more jobs.” Specifically, H.R. 2788 would make needed changes to keep S corporations competitive, and ensure the continued success of America’s predominant private business model by: Increasing the ability of S corporations to access much-needed capital; Modernizing the rules that apply to firms that have selected S corporation status; and Easing and expanding S corporations’ ability to make charitable donations These reforms would improve the ability of S corporations to respond to the current business environment and remove impediments that prevent them from competing on a level playing field at home in the United States. Provisions included in this bill passed the House earlier this Congress as part of H.R 636 by a large, bipartisan majority of 272 to 142. These provisions were introduced previously as H.R. 629 and H.R. 630.
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation by 219 to 211. U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) applauded its passage with the following statement: “Passage of TPA today was critical for the future of America and our global leadership. With this tool in our hands, we can conclude trade agreements that allow Americans the freedom and opportunity to pursue their own choices for the future. They can seek out higher-paying jobs, grow their businesses, and sell the American brand around the world. I remain committed to fighting for these opportunities for American families, and to working with my colleagues on a way forward on TAA. We must advance the trade agenda to support the hundreds of thousands of jobs in Washington which depend on expanded trade.” To see Rep. Reichert's floor speech from earlier today, click here.
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1295, the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015, including provisions championed by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) regarding recreation apparel. Upon passage, Reichert issued the following statement: “Passage of today’s legislation is a big win for Washington State businesses and families. Renewal of both the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) is important because they not only support economic growth in developing countries but also save Washington manufacturers millions of dollars by bringing down the costs of needed parts and supplies. This means more jobs and more affordable products for Washington families. Also included within this bill are provisions I have championed for a long time with my Oregon colleague, Mr. Blumenauer. Taking from the U.S. OUTDOOR Act, the bill also recognizes the unique and innovative nature of outdoor recreation apparel made by Washington companies like REI. Washingtonians who use these goods regularly as they hike Mt. Rainier or navigate the waters of the Columbia River, understand the difference between high performance apparel and footwear, and a basic t-shirt and walking shoe. It’s long past due that Congress does as well.” Background According to the Outdoor Industry Association, American consumers spend over $640 billion each year on outdoor recreation, which in so doing supports an industry that is directly and indirectly tied to 12 million American jobs. Congressmen Reichert and Blumenauer have long championed the U.S. OUTDOOR Act, which creates new Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) breakouts for recreational performance outerwear and removes the duties on these goods. The Trade Preferences Act (H.R. 1295) includes these breakouts and also creates a new category for outdoor footwear. This category is limited to certain types of footwear designed for outdoor activities, including hiking shoes, trekking shoes, running shoes, and trail running shoes which provide protection against water and does not include athletic footwear designed for other activities, like basketball and tennis. The House passed H.R. 1295 by a vote of 397-32.
06.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert announced the names of the young men and women who received appointments to United States Service Academies from the 8th District of Washington. He honored them at a reception yesterday, recognizing the hard work and the many requirements they had to meet in order to earn a nomination, let alone an appointment. In addition to being outstanding scholars, these students have all demonstrated excellent leadership skills and a commitment to community service. Rep. Reichert said, “I could not be more proud of the young people who will be attending service academies from our district next year. Not only have they voluntarily chosen extremely stringent courses of study, they have signed contracts with their nation to serve her and know that they may be called upon to make many sacrifices along the way. I wish them all the very best as they enter this new phase of their life, and I know that they will have bright and successful futures.” The 8th District of Washington Service Academy appointments are as follows: United States Military Academy Dalton Stahl, Sammamish Nikhil Shyamkumar, Sammamish Joseph Miller, Auburn Charles Gulotta, Lake Tapps Raymond Hardaway, Auburn Christian Ackerman, Auburn United States Naval Academy Jasmine Ye, Sammamish Olivia Kesterson, Malaga United States Air Force Academy Christopher Darcy, Maple Valley Alexander Lesar, Renton
06.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Mike Thompson (D-CA), introduced the Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreement Act, H.R. 2649, along with the Senate version introduced by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Bill Nelson (D-FL). The legislation is intended to protect injured workers whose compensation claims overlap with Medicare coverage. Unfortunately, these claims are frequently subjected to lengthy and roundabout reviews by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to determine appropriate set-aside amounts to pay for future medical costs in which Medicare may have an interest. These delays unfairly affect the injured worker making the claim. “Hard-working Americans should not be jeopardized by inefficient, unnecessary bureaucratic procedures,” said Rep. Reichert. “Instead, injured workers should have confidence that the system is working to protect them and that their claims will be reviewed and processed fairly and quickly. I thank Congressman Thompson for joining me in introducing this bill that would ensure the system serves the American worker and their family rather than the other way around.” “Bureaucratic red-tape shouldn’t keep hardworking Americans from getting the money they need to cover their costs following a work-related injury,” said Thompson. “Injured Workers deserve peace of mind and the system needs to work quickly and seamlessly. I look forward to working with Congressman Reichert to pass our legislation and help make this happen.” “Too often, workers who are injured are forced to deal with bureaucratic red tape,” Portman stated. “This commonsense bill will help those suffering from a work-related injury get the care they need and get back on their feet sooner.” Background The Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreements Act establishes clear and consistent standards for an administrative process that provides reasonable protections for injured workers and Medicare. It would benefit injured workers, employers and insurers by creating a system of certainty, and allows the settlement process to move forward while eliminating millions of dollars in administrative costs that harm workers, employers and insurers. The legislation has widespread support from groups such as the American Insurance Association, the American Bar Association, the National Council of Self-Insurers, Property Casualty, Insurers Association of America, UWC-Strategic Services and the Workers Injury Law and Advocacy Group (WILG).
06.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced an amendment during the House consideration of the Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) Appropriations bill (H.R. 2578) that would boost funding for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Program (Byrne JAG) by $100 million to be used to help local police departments across the nation meet their hiring needs. Rep. Reichert was joined in co-offering this amendment by fellow Law Enforcement Caucus Co-Chair Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Reps. Charlie Dent (R-PA) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). The amendment was unanimously accepted and passed the House this afternoon. Rep. Reichert said, “I hear consistently from police officers from Maryland to Washington State that the best way to protect and positively engage with our communities is to make sure there are enough cops on the streets. Many law enforcement agencies are not able to meet their community’s needs without federal grants. Law enforcement agencies across the country are continually asked to do more with less. That is why today’s amendment ensuring funding for hiring is so absolutely critical. We need our local law enforcement to have the resources available to do their jobs, working with our communities to build partnerships built on trust, protect our families and our neighborhoods, protecting the rights and freedoms of us all. They are our first line of defense and we must ensure that it is a strong one.” “It’s our duty to ensure our brave law enforcement officers have every advantage at their disposal in keeping our streets safe,” stated Rep. Pascrell. “As police departments across the country continue to face budget constraints, this federal funding marks a significant investment in achieving that goal. I stand committed to supporting funding for this critical program so these brave men and women have every resource possible to protect themselves and our communities.” “I’m proud to be part of this effort to ensure the continuance of the commonsense, fiscally responsible and flexible Byrne JAG Program. This program allows communities in my district – and across the country – to fund anti-crime activities, whether that involves hiring more officers, to deploying new law enforcement technologies or even providing needed services for crime victims. This is a necessary program that helps make our neighborhoods safer and I thank Rep. Reichert for his leadership on this matter,” said Rep. Dent. “I’m pleased to team up with Congressman Reichert in supporting important funding for local law enforcement,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler. “These Byrne grants provide vital support for law enforcement throughout Washington state – including Southwest Washington. Byrne grants provide flexibility to address local needs. In Wahkiakum and Cowlitz counties, local law enforcement saw a community need and were able to use Byrne grants to help form the Cowlitz Wahkiakum Narcotics Task Force to combat illegal drug use in that region. The city of Vancouver has used Byrne funds for officer safety equipment, technology to enhance computer crime investigations, and for the Neighbors on Watch citizen patrol program. This amendment will better equip law enforcement with the resources they need to keep our communities safe.” H.R. 2578 eliminates the COPS Hiring Program, which provides federal grants to local police departments for the hiring and retention of police officers. The bipartisan amendment offered by Reps. Reichert, Pascrell, Dent and Herrera Beutler would help mitigate the impact of this cut by increasing funds for Byrne JAG by $100 million. Under existing law, Byrne JAG grants can also be used for hiring purposes. The amendment is supported by the National Association of Police Organizations, the Fraternal Order of Police, the Sergeants Benevolence Association, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association. Other important law enforcement programs included in the CJS appropriations package include the community trust initiative, regional information sharing activities, anti-methamphetamine activities, offender reentry programs, sexual assault response programs, the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog grant program, and funding for the DEA and FBI.
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-8), and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-2), introduced a bill to help small businesses in Washington state, and across the country, export their products overseas. The bipartisan State Trade and Export Promotion Utilization Program for American Small Businesses Act of 2015 would reauthorize funding for the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program that helps small businesses overcome hurdles to exporting. “As our small businesses are looking to export their goods and services to other countries for the first time, we should ensure that they have the tools they need to expand their reach. With 96% of consumers living outside of our borders, this is where the opportunity lies for them to grow their business and hire more people here at home. I look forward to continued work with my colleague from Washington in support of America’s small businesses,” Congressman Reichert said. “When we help our small businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. The STEP program does just that. Take Warm Industrial Nonwovens in Lynnwood, Wash., which manufactures textiles. STEP grants have enabled this local manufacturer to attend international trade shows and get its products in front of major aerospace manufacturers,” Congressman Larsen said. “STEP grants have helped hundreds of small businesses like Warm Industrial to generate millions of dollars in sales. I am pleased to work with Congressman Reichert on this bipartisan bill to help Northwest businesses grow and create jobs.” The STEP program was created by Congress in 2010 as a three-year pilot program. In Washington state, over 480 businesses have used STEP funding to boost their exports. According to the Washington State Department of Commerce, this has resulted in an increase of more than $161 million in export sales and supported more than 2,200 jobs. Algona-based Cimtech, Inc. and Lynnwood-based Warm Industrial Nonwovens both used STEP grants to make contracts abroad.
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert ( WA-8) introduced H.R. 2503, the Permanently Ending Receipt by Prisoners (PERP) Act to ensure that incarcerated individuals are not improperly receiving Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits. As a former Sheriff and the former Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee overseeing the UI program, Congressman Reichert blended his unique experience and expertise to develop this legislation that will protect unemployment benefits for those truly in need by ensuring they are not being paid to ineligible individuals. Rep. Reichert said, “It has become clear that states are not doing enough to properly administer unemployment benefits. It’s important that we protect these benefits for the hard-working, law-abiding men and women who have fallen on hard times and need to be able to put food on the table for their families. A lack of oversight is allowing some in jail to continue to receive UI benefits even though they are unable to fulfill the program’s “able and available” to work requirement. It is simply wrong that we have not prevented this money from being misspent on those who do not deserve it, and we should act quickly to ensure it is redirected to those who do.” Under existing UI program rules that operate in all states, an individual must be able, available, and actively seeking work in order to be eligible to collect UI benefits, which are paid to those who are unemployed through no fault of their own. Individuals confined in jails, prisons, and other penal institutions are by definition not “able and available” to work and have historically been presumed to be not eligible for UI benefits. The PERP Act will: Bar States from paying UI checks to local, state and federal prisoners, strengthening a current implied prohibition because prisoners are not “able and available” for work. Require State UI agencies to regularly compare UI rolls with currently available inmate rosters to ensure UI checks are not paid to current inmates. At a minimum, States must access and use prisoner information the Social Security Administration has collected and used since the mid-1990s to prevent the payment of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit checks to currently incarcerated individuals. This current data match is simple, quick, efficient, and can readily be replicated by States to ensure that UI benefit checks are no longer paid to prisoners. Congressman Reichert was joined by original co-sponsors Charles Boustany (R-LA) and Jim Renacci (R-OH) in reintroducing this legislation.
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after returning from the White House signing ceremony of the Reichert-Cardin legislation, the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, with President Obama and the families of Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu: “There has been a lot of hard-work put into this new law, because I, as well as my Congressional colleagues, know that the National Blue Alert Act is critical to the safety of law enforcement across the country. These are the men and women who put their lives on the line for us every day. We’ve seen how costly that can be – 117 officers died in line of duty last year, and 44 have already died this year. Implementing Blue Alert systems nation-wide could help apprehend more quickly the criminals who injure and kill police officers, and it could even save cops’ lives by alerting the public to active, credible threats. It has been my honor to play a role in getting this bill to the President’s desk for his signature today. It was a proud moment to be there with the families of two of our fallen heroes and I look forward to continuing to serve our law enforcement just as they serve to protect our communities.”
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, in honor of the 53rd annual Peace Officers Memorial Day, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “Every year, we set aside a day to remember the sacrifices of the men and women wearing the badge who gave everything they had, including their lives, to keep others safe. Without them, our communities and our nation would be far less safe. Having served 33 years in law enforcement, this is very near and dear to my heart. Two of my best friends are listed among the names on our national memorial – Sergeant Sam Hicks and Deputy Mike Raburn. There is no higher commendation than to say someone thought more of others than they did themselves, and Sam and Mike deserve that commendation, as they proved it to be the foundation of their lives. This is why I have also introduced a resolution today to express the sense of Congress that law enforcement deserve the utmost respect and recognition. So join me today in remembering the 117 who died in the line of duty last year to protect us, and the 44 who have already died this year. They are gone but not forgotten.”
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) introduced the COPS Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2015 (H.R. 2318). They were joined by original co-sponsors Pete King (R-NY), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Dan Benishek (R-MI), Richard Hanna (R-NY), and Charlie Dent (R-PA). The legislation, which would continue the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant programs, helps provide funding to hire law enforcement officials, including school resources officers, to help solve problems before they escalate. Reps. Reichert and Pascrell said, “This legislation is critical to give law enforcement the tools they need to do their job – a job that is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Without our men and women wearing the badge, crime on the streets will rise and our communities will suffer. We all want to ensure this does not happen, and this modest investment in the effectiveness of local law enforcement can lead to great strides in accomplishing that goal.” “I applaud the introduction of COPS Reauthorization by Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell,” said Mitch Barker, Executive Director of the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs. “This grant program is critical to local law enforcement all across the nation, including Washington State, allowing us to hire and train responsible members of law enforcement to keep our communities safe. Programs like COPS help us lower the crime rate by putting police funding where it is needed most, which counters problems before they arise, and make us more effective.” The COPS Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2015 (H.R. 2318) would reauthorize and codify the Community Oriented Policing Services or COPS office within the Department of Justice. The bill would also expand current grant opportunities offered by the office to include the TROOPS-TO-COPS program providing for the hiring of former members of the Armed Services and a technology grant program focused on crime prevention. The funding also allows communities to take advantage of existing technologies that would not otherwise be available and ensures effectiveness and accountability.
05.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Defending Public Safety Employees’ Retirement Act (H.R. 2146), introduced by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) passed the House by a vote of 407 to 5. This bill would ensure fairness for federal public safety officials by allowing them to access retirement savings at the age of 50 after 20 years of service without the application of the 10% tax. Generally, under current law, a 10% penalty is added on top of normal tax amounts taken out of retirement accounts before the age of 59½. In 2006, Congress recognized that state and local public safety officials should be able to access their accounts without penalty at age 50 due to the fact that many of these officials are eligible to retire at earlier ages due to the unique and hazardous nature of the work they perform. Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell’s bill would simply extend this benefit to federal law enforcement and firefighters, who are eligible to retire after 20 years of service at age 50. Rep. Reichert said, “I spent 33 years in law enforcement. I know from my own experience and those that I worked with just how strenuous of a job protecting our fellow Americans can be. You never know when or what kind of situation you might be called to intervene in. It is taxing both mentally and physically – sometimes so much so that officers are subject to mandatory retirement at young ages. As a result, they may need to access savings earlier than a standard retirement age. We should ensure they are granted access, without penalty, and that is what this bill does.” “This legislation will finally place federal public safety officers on par with their state and local counterparts, allowing them to fairly access their earned benefits,” stated Rep. Pascrell. “The physical demands placed on our public safety officers as they protect our communities often require retirement at an earlier age than other professions, and it’s our duty to ensure the tax code treats these brave men and women fairly.” "This legislation is about fairness and bringing equity to the brave men and women who fill the ranks of federal law enforcement agencies," said Federal Law Enforcement Association President Jon Adler. "We are grateful to Reps. Reichert, Pascrell, Reed, and Fitzpatrick for taking the lead on this legislation recognizing the sacrifice and service of America's federal law enforcement officers." General President of the International Association of Fire Fighters Harold A. Schaitberger said, “On behalf of more than 300,000 men and women who serve on the front lines in protecting our communities, I want to thank and commend Representatives Dave Reichert and Bill Pascrell for their leadership on this important issue. Current law prevents federal fire fighters from accessing their retirement savings even after they have to reached retirement age and separate from service. The Reichert-Pascrell initiative corrects this inequity, and will provide those fire fighters who protect defense installations and other vital federal facilities with a small measure of retirement security.” H.R. 2146 passed the House during National Police Week along with 2 other bills to support law enforcement: the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, also introduced by Reichert and Pascell and the Don’t Tax Our Fallen Public Safety Heroes Act introduced by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-MN).
05.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House unanimously passed the Senate version of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, introduced in the House by the chairmen of the Law Enforcement Caucus, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ). The bill, supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO), the Sergeants Benevolent Association of the New York City Police Department (SBA) and many other organizations, would establish national guidelines to help states implement Blue Alert systems across the country to apprehend criminals who have injured, killed, or made imminent and credible threats against police officers. On April 30, the Senate unanimously passed the Blue Alert legislation. “This is about protecting lives – lives like those of NYPD officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu who this bill was named for and who were assassinated in their patrol car just before Christmas,” said Rep. Reichert. “Our communities are safer and stronger because the men and women in law enforcement stand up to protect them each and every day. I am honored to have been a part of getting this bill through Congress and on its way to the President’s desk, along with my colleagues Bill Pascrell, and Senators Cardin and Graham. We have an obligation to support the 900,000 men and women wearing the badge, and this is a critical step to ensuring they, and our communities, are kept safe from harm.” “The grave risk that our law enforcement officers face was tragically confirmed again this past Christmas when on-duty NYPD officers Ramos and Liu were murdered while simply sitting in their squad car,” stated Rep. Pascrell. “The sobering reality is that each week there seems to be a new headline of a police officer being injured or killed in the line of duty. I’m proud to work with Congressman Reichert on getting this critical legislation passed and to the President’s desk so we can provide our law enforcement officers the protection they need and deserve.” Blue Alerts are based on the successful Amber Alerts and can be issued in the event of: an attack on a law enforcement officers leading to his / her death or serious injury; a conclusion a law enforcement office is missing in the line of duty; or a confirmation by a law enforcement agency that an imminent and credible threat exists to kill or seriously injure one of its officers. The legislation would also assign an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator of the Blue Alert communications network. This Coordinator would, among other things: Provide assistance to State and local governments that are using Blue Alert plans. Establish voluntary guidelines for states and local governments to use in developing such plans. Develop protocols for efforts to apprehend suspects, including the use of public safety communications and command center operations. Work with states to ensure appropriate regional coordination of the network. Establish an advisory group to assist all entities involved in the network with the facilitation, promotion, and implementation of Blue Alert plans. Act as the nationwide point of contact for the development of the network and the regional coordination of Blue Alerts through the network. Determine what procedures and practices are in use for notifying law enforcement and the public of Blue Alerts, and which of the procedures and practices are effective and do not require the expenditure of additional resources to implement. Establish guidelines that provide mechanisms to ensure that Blue Alerts comply with all applicable privacy laws and regulations. Direct the Coordinator to submit an annual report to Congress on the Coordinator's activities and the effectiveness and status of the Blue Alert plans that are in effect or being developed.
05.05.2015	Washington – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert is excited to announce the 8th District of Washington’s winning selection for this year’s Congressional Art Competition. At a reception held this evening at the Green River Community College, the drawing “Oh, Honey!” by Katherine Lasko from Bonney Lake High School was chosen from among the many entries. “The best part about the Congressional Art Competition is seeing the creativity of so many high school students and the pride they take in their work. Choosing among them just one winner is a daunting task and I don’t know how our panel does this each and every year. This year’s winner – “Oh, Honey!” by Katherine Lasko – will add to the long legacy of outstanding artwork from the 8th District of Washington hanging in the U.S. Capitol Building. I congratulate Katherine for her achievement, and thank her for sharing her talent with our district and nation.” Second and third place went to Reed Phillips from Tahoma Senior High School and Rylie Sweem from Wenatchee High School respectively. Reed’s submission was a photograph entitled “Over the Northwest” and Rylie submitted a drawing entitled “The Sea”. This year, at the final reception, a people’s choice winner was selected and this recognition went to Emily Plank from Tahoma Senior High School for her photograph of Suzallo Library at the University of Washington. Background Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation with the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building. It is a competition that encourages students to participate fully in a well-rounded school curriculum and Congressman Reichert, a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, has participated in the program every year since taking office.
05.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – After last night's passage in the Senate of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “Being able to implement Blue Alert Systems more efficiently across the country is one step closer to becoming reality with the passage of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act in the Senate. I hope the House will take up the Reichert-Cardin legislation soon so we can get it to the White House and signed into law. We have seen, particularly in light of recent events, just how important it is to protect those who spend their lives protecting us. Our nation’s law enforcement officers run towards danger instead of away from it. And sometimes, danger finds them, when they themselves are targeted. We must do everything in our power to ensure their safety, and work together to keep our communities safe all across this country.”
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – After the passage of H.R. 2029 - the FY2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “The legislation we passed tonight will help our service men and women and veterans across the country as well as their families. It ensures that we do not fail in our duty or commitment to helping them succeed in the military and after they transition to civilian life by increasing funding for veterans’ programs, including mental health services and suicide prevention. It also prioritizes working to reduce the backlog of VA claims. This is one of our most important duties as a government – to take care of these men and women who have sacrificed so much – and I am glad to see us take steps to continue to do that today.”
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, after encouragement from U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Washington Senators Murray and Cantwell, the U.S. Department of Transportation granted Washington State $350,000 to cover immediate expenses related to the repairs on the Front Street I-90 Overpass and the White River Bridge. Rep. Reichert issued the following statement: “I am pleased to see that the Administration took our state’s request under advisement and worked quickly to respond. This assistance is much needed to help Washington make emergency repairs on these two critical structures and will help prepare the way for long-term improvements that will ensure their structural integrity for decades to come.” To read more about the original letter from Rep. Reichert and Senators Murray and Cantwell, click here.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced a bill encouraging the creation of employee-owned businesses through S Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plans (S ESOPs). Congressman Reichert said, “This legislation is critical to giving employees ownership over their work and retirement in a time when many people are concerned about their retirement savings. By encouraging the establishment of employee-owned businesses, we allow more hard-working Americans a stake in their companies and hope for a secure future. Confidence in the future can only help incentivize workers and grow our economy.” “By making it easier for companies to become employee-owned, this legislation will not only grow the number of employee owned businesses, it will provide retirement security to more Americans,” said Rep. Kind. “Employee-owned companies perform better – not just for themselves but for every one of their employees as well. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill forward and strengthen opportunities for employee-ownership in order to unleash their potential to enable more Americans to save smarter for retirement.” The Promotion and Expansion of Private Employee Ownership Act of 2015 includes provisions to encourage owners of S Corporations to sell their stock to an ESOP, expand financing opportunities for S Corporation ESOPs, provide technical assistance for companies that may be interested in forming an S Corporation ESOP, and ensure that small businesses that become ESOPs retain their Small Business Association certification. Reps. Reichert and Kind are supported in their efforts by original cosponsors Reps. Paulsen (R-MN), Blumenauer (D-OR), Tiberi (R-OH), Neal (D-MA), Boustany (R-LA), and Pascrell (D-NJ).
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – After today's passage out of the Ways and Means Committee of trade promotion authority legislation and other related bills, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert issued the following statement: “With trade supporting nearly 80,000 jobs in the 8th District of Washington alone, and 40% of all Washington State jobs, I am especially pleased to see the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act, or TPA, pass out of the Ways and Means committee today. This legislation would allow Congress to exercise its authority by setting requirements for the Administration to follow when negotiating high-standard, comprehensive trade agreements with other countries, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership and an agreement with the European Union. It would also ensure that America keeps its place as a global leader, promoting prosperity and economic growth around the world, while creating thousands of jobs here at home. “I was also proud to support the renewal of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program to eliminate tariffs on goods from developing countries, which is a successful program benefiting many Washington companies. We also reported the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) which would reaffirm U.S. commitment in sub-Saharan African. “Additionally, we are sending to the House legislation to reauthorize trade adjustment assistance programs which we know is necessary for bipartisan support for the broader trade agenda. Finally, the Committee marked up legislation to improve the facilitation of trade and the enforcement of our laws. “I will be working with my colleagues to ensure the successful passage of these bills so that we can create jobs, grow our economy, and ensure America’s global leadership.”
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert voted in support of the Protecting Cyber Networks Act (H.R. 1560) and the National Cybsersecurity Protection Advancement Act (H.R. 1731) to protect against criminal activity such as cyber theft and espionage. “This week, the House has passed important legislation to protect American citizens from cyberattacks. As Washingtonians are only too familiar with, after the recent breach of Premera Blue Cross’s IT systems by hackers, living in such an advanced technological age has very real benefits, but it also comes with its own set of risks that have opened up Americans to new threats. This new legislation will permit organizations to securely share information and guard against cyber-threats, by protecting networks and data from outsiders while addressing privacy concerns.” H.R. 1560 passed the house by a vote of 307 to 116 and H.R. 1731 passed by a vote of 355 to 63.
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – With two integral transportation links in Washington state recently closed due to serious damage, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) was joined by Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) in urging Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to grant emergency relief funding to help Washington state cover the costs of repairs. On March 13, an over-height garbage truck struck and damaged the Interstate 90 (I-90) overpass above Front Street in Issaquah. In a separate incident on April 4, WSDOT closed the State Route 410 White River Bridge between Enumclaw and Buckley for emergency repairs after discovering damage to the bridge’s arched steel supports. Both structures are located in the 8th Congressional District. The members of Congress wrote, “The Front Street I-90 overpass is extremely important for both King County communities and the entire state of Washington as a key corridor for commerce. As part of the I-90 corridor, it plays an important role in supporting international trade through the movement of goods and is critical for creating and sustaining hundreds of thousands of jobs in Washington State.” The overpass has since been reopened but the right shoulder is closed until permanent repairs can be made. The White River Bridge is again open to traffic but permanent repairs will be made later this year. About the White River Bridge, the members said, “As the sole transportation link across the White River, this bridge is vital for the transportation of goods and services, commuters to travel to and from their jobs, and enhancing the economic development and tourism opportunities in the region. In addition, the bridge is critical to the effective and timely delivery of emergency services. The bridge is a vital link to the Enumclaw Regional Hospital in Enumclaw; further closures of the bridge could seriously jeopardize our constituents’ access to critical health care.” To read the full text of both letters, click here.
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), a senior member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade issued the following statement after today's introduction of trade promotion authority legislation in both the House and the Senate: "Today’s introduction of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 marks a momentous step forward for US trade policy. As a long-time proponent of high-standard trade agreements that bring more jobs and more business to our workers, growers, and manufacturers, I know that we need passage of this legislation to make this priority a reality. Right now, we are negotiating agreements, like the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which represent huge opportunities for my home state. Not only will this bill give Congress the tool to ensure that we get the best deals in our trade agreements, it will allow us to set the parameters for consultation between the Administration and Congress. This guarantees that we have a voice on behalf of our constituents throughout the negotiating process. I look forward to working with the Chairman and my colleagues on both side of the aisle to bring this legislation to the floor."
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Congressman John Yarmuth (KY-3) introduced H.R. 1779, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Trafficking Prevention Act (RHYTPA). This legislation will reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act—currently the only federal program targeted solely to help runaway youth—and also add new protections for youth victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation. There are approximately 1.6 million homeless teens in the United States, and nearly 39 percent of the nation’s homeless population is believed to be under the age of 18 years old. “We have a responsibility to help the most vulnerable,” said Rep. Reichert. “Many of our most vulnerable are children who have for one reason or another been forced to live on the streets. Too often we fail to see these kids and we leave them without opportunities to rebuild their lives. This bill will help us to fix that, and it will help us provide shelter for children in need and set them up to become successful adults. “This legislation will help us meet our responsibility to combat youth homelessness and ensure that homeless young people in America have a place to seek shelter and find safety,” said Rep. Yarmuth. “When a child is homeless, they don’t just lose the security of a safe place to sleep, they miss out on opportunities for future success.” RHYTPA will reauthorize vital programs administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the Basic Center Program, to provide short-term emergency shelter and family reunification services to runaway and homeless youth; the Transitional Living Center, which provides longer-term residential services and life skills, education, and employment supports to older homeless youth; and the Street Outreach Program, which provides crisis intervention and service referrals to runaway and homeless youth at street locations and drop-in centers. Additionally, the measure includes a provision to improve support for family reunification and intervention, which can be critical to successful youth outcomes.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after today's votes on IRS reform: “Today, the House passed a series of bills that will take great strides towards necessary reforms of the IRS. We have seen the IRS abuse its power for far too long. I and my Ways and Means colleagues have vowed to end those abuses and we will continue to make progress towards ensuring that the IRS works for the American people and not against them. “We are also reminded today, which some call ‘Tax Day’, of other things that need reform, our tax code is as much in need of fixing as the IRS is. We must reform our tax code so that our businesses have the tools to invest, grow, and hire; so that individuals have more time to spend with their families rather than figuring out their returns, and more money back in their pockets to put food on the table. It must be fairer and simpler, and I will continue to fight to make happen.” To read more about the IRS bills that passed the House today, click here.
03.30.2015	Washington – U.S. Members of Congress Dave Reichert (WA-8), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5), and Dan Newhouse (WA-4) issued the following statement regarding the Seattle City Council vote to adopt a resolution expressing disapproval for trade promotion authority and concerns about the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations: "It is disheartening that today the Seattle City Council adopted a resolution opposing trade promotion authority and conveying concerns about the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Trade promotion authority is the tool by which Congress sets the standards for the Administration to negotiate the best possible trade agreements, so that our farmers,manufacturers, and hard working families have access to markets around the world and can successfully sell our American-made goods. As one of the most trade-dependent states in the nation, the negotiation of high-standard, comprehensive trade agreements – like TPP – is critical to Washington state’s growth and economic success. By setting themselves against trade promotion authority, the Seattle City Council is positioning itself against a better future for families and communities across our state.”
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) introduced the Lymphedema Treatment Act, H.R. 1608, to ensure Medicare coverage for the millions of Americans who suffer from this condition. “We should be enabling seniors who suffer from lymphedema to have the best possible access to necessary treatments for their condition,” said Reichert. “Making sure that Medicare covers compression garments is a common-sense way to give individuals real hope to fight back against this chronic condition and obtain their best possible quality of life.” Blumenauer said, “Making sure that our health care system is designed so that those suffering from chronic illness can receive necessary treatments is essential. The Lymphedema Treatment Act will enable Medicare to improve care for patients by covering treatments that are crucial to combating its ailments. This is an important bill that will affect and improve the lives of many and strengthen our health care system that today falls short without this Act.” “Our legislation seeks to close the Medicare coverage gap for equipment and therapies needed by the nearly six million Americans suffering from Lymphedema,” said Lance, a member of the House Health Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Rare Disease Caucus. “This bill will improve patient care and reduce overall health care costs associated with this chronic disease.” “I am a strong believer in strengthening Medicare, and the Lymphedema Treatment Act is a prime example of how we can ensure that millions of Americans get the care they need,” said Schakowsky. “Those who suffer from Lymphedema need medical supplies that can be costly. One of my close friends suffers from this condition, so I am very aware of its impact. This legislation will result in life-changing treatment for those with Lymphedema,” said Schakowsky. Founder and executive director of the Lymphedema Advocacy Group Heather Ferguson added, “Compression is to lymphedema what medication is to many other diseases - indispensable! Insurance coverage for their doctor-prescribed compression treatment supplies will enable lymphedema patients, the majority of whom are cancer survivors, to avoid costly complications and debilitating disease progression. Passage of the Lymphedema Treatment Act will help to minimize the healthcare costs associated with this chronic disease, while allowing the millions of Americans affected by lymphedema to live a better quality of life.” Background Lymphedema is a chronic condition resulting from damaged or inadequate lymph nodes or lymphatic vessels that afflicts millions of Americans. It is a disease that one can be born with but it is most often caused by cancer treatments that damage the body’s lymph system or immune functions. Due to the painful swelling that results from lymphedema, compression therapy is an essential component of treatment but compression supplies are not covered by Medicare despite being an ongoing necessity. H.R. 1608 closes this coverage gap by requiring Medicare to cover lymphedema compression items.
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-Wash.-08) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-N.J.-09) and U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) joined with members of the law enforcement community Tuesday to urge swift passage of Senate and House bills to create a nationwide alert system to apprehend violent criminals who have injured or killed police officers or who have made an imminent or credible threat to the cause serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer. Modeled after the successful Amber Alerts, this legislation, (S. 665/H.R.1269) The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, is strongly supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO), the Sergeants Benevolent Association of the New York City Police Department (SBA) and many other organizations. “By keeping our law enforcement officers safe, we help keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Reichert. “Creating a National Blue Alert system is a critical step towards achieving that goal. When law enforcement officers are harmed, everything in our power should be done to swiftly apprehend those who harmed them and prevent any further injury or loss of life. Quickly disseminating information to citizens and public safety officers will empower communities and add to the tools at the disposal of law enforcement for keeping America safe.” “Blue Alert is bipartisan, bicameral legislation to protect law enforcement officers and the public. When a credible threat is made, an officer is injured, or worse; we owe it to law enforcement to help however we can,” said Senator Cardin. “A National Blue Alert system would ensure that citizens across the country can work in concert to help protect those who put their lives on the line to protect us. I’m proud to join law enforcement nationwide and colleagues from both the Senate and the House in calling for the passage, finally, of this important public safety legislation.” “Last year, we mourned the loss of Jersey City Officer Melvin Santiago, who was killed in the line of duty responding to a gang-related robbery,” stated Congressman Pascrell. “Officer Santiago’s death set off a series of targeted threats against New Jersey police officers from the assailant’s fellow gang members. When threats like this occur, the rapid dissemination of critical, time-sensitive information is essential; and the National Blue Alert System would provide that.” “While almost half the states have implemented some form of a Blue Alert system, there is currently no national Blue Alert system to coordinate alerts across multiple states. There also is not a federal official designated to coordinate the Blue Alert system and share best practices with the states,” Senator Graham said. “Our bipartisan legislation enhances and integrates the Blue Alert plan throughout the United States. It will help rapidly disseminate information and notify law enforcement, media, and the public about dangerous criminal suspects. I hope it can soon be passed into law.” "As one of the prime sponsors and authors of the Blue Alert Act of 2015, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association looks forward to the swift passage of this bill that will help combat the rise of targeted violence against law enforcement officers and those that seek to attack the American way of life,” said Don Mihalek of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA) “Make no mistake – law enforcement officers in uniform are the targets of those who want to make a headline by killing a cop,” said Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police. “Officers Ramos and Liu were two of nine officers killed from ambush last year and the attempted murder of two police officers in Ferguson is a stark reminder of the danger these brave officers are in on every shift.” “Our community in Western Maryland is called the ‘Four State Region’ for good reason: Hagerstown is 10 minutes from Pennsylvania, 10 minutes from West Virginia and 30 minutes from Virginia. We anticipate in our community that anyone who would assault a police officer is going to flee the state, so getting information out to other law enforcement and the public as fast as we can is going to make a real difference in getting these individuals off the streets,” said Chief of Police Mark Holtzman of the Hagerstown Police Department. “One unique things about law enforcement is that if someone wants to harm the police, they don’t care what uniform you wear. Use of a National Blue Alert system will get information out to where it needs to be fast, and use the leverage of the public we serve, to help apprehend these individuals. I believe we will have a much safer community.” “The SBA is grateful to Representatives Reichert and Pascrell, and Senators Cardin and Graham for their unwavering efforts to pass a national ‘Blue Alert’ Act,” said Vice President Robert Ganley of the Sergeants Benevolent Association of the NYPD. “We are especially grateful for their willingness to rename this legislation after hero officers Ramos and Liu, and to amend the bill to reduce the odds that such vicious, unprovoked, and calculated attacks against police officers will succeed in the future. Had such a Blue Alert network been in place last December, it would have increased the likelihood that their murderer could have been stopped before he was able to carry out his cowardly attack.” "NAPO is grateful to Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell and Senators Cardin and Graham for introducing the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015. This important legislation honors two heroes and members of NAPO, NYPD Detectives Ramos and Liu, who dedicated their lives to protecting the public,” said Bill Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO). “Passing this bill will ensure the wide dissemination of information on suspects connected with the injury or death of a law enforcement officer, as well as information on credible threats to law enforcement, like the threats posted by the individual who killed Detectives Ramos and Liu. Passing this bill will prevent future tragedies during a time when individuals are increasingly willing to attack law enforcement officers. It is our duty to provide this protection to the men and women who work tirelessly to protect us. We are not going to rest until this legislation is passed." Blue Alerts can be issued in the event of: · an attack on a law enforcement officers leading to his / her death or serious injury; · a conclusion a law enforcement office is missing in the line of duty; or · a confirmation by a law enforcement agency that an imminent and credible threat exists to kill or seriously injure one of its officers. The legislation would assign an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator of the Blue Alert communications network. This Coordinator will, among other things: · Provide assistance to State and local governments that are using Blue Alert plans. · Establish voluntary guidelines for states and local governments to use in developing such plans. · Develop protocols for efforts to apprehend suspects, including the use of public safety communications and command center operations. · Work with states to ensure appropriate regional coordination of the network. · Establish an advisory group to assist all entities involved in the network with the facilitation, promotion, and implementation of Blue Alert plans. · Act as the nationwide point of contact for the development of the network and the regional coordination of Blue Alerts through the network. · Determine what procedures and practices are in use for notifying law enforcement and the public of Blue Alerts, and which of the procedures and practices are effective and do not require the expenditure of additional resources to implement. · Establish guidelines that provide mechanisms to ensure that Blue Alerts comply with all applicable privacy laws and regulations. · Direct the Coordinator to submit an annual report to Congress on the Coordinator's activities and the effectiveness and status of the Blue Alert plans that are in effect or being developed.
03.17.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Charles Boustany (R-LA) released the following statement after introducing the Home Visiting Extension Act of 2015 extending the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) program through the end of the fiscal year: "Today, we introduced the Home Visiting Extension Act of 2015, to extend the authorization for the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program (MIECHV) through September 30 of this year. "This bill addresses an issue that isn’t addressed enough in Congress—the importance of using evidence to figure out what works to reduce poverty in America. "This bill continues the bipartisan and bicameral support for this program by preventing its expiration at the end of the month and ensuring it continues through this fiscal year at the same funding level as last year. "At its core, this program is designed to improve outcomes for children and families — especially those children who face the greatest risk of abuse and neglect. "By funding locally-managed, state-selected models based on evidence, this program offers help to parents with young children in order to improve outcomes for kids—including by improving children’s health, preventing child abuse and neglect, improving school readiness, and increasing a family’s ability to be self-sufficient. "The young families served by this program live in communities with concentrations of poverty, crime, substance abuse, and other factors that can have a substantial negative impact on the lives of these young children. "Home visiting professionals address these problems head-on — visiting these mothers in their homes to give them the advice, guidance, and the help they need to make sure their children are given the best starting point in life—a desire any parent knows well. "Home visiting programs have been operating for decades, but the effectiveness of past efforts has been unknown. That’s why this program includes strong standards of evidence so only home visiting models that meet certain standards receive funding, as well as a strong evaluation component so we can find out whether these programs are actually working as intended. "We have also both called for hearings on this issue—Chairman Reichert held one in July of 2013, and Chairman Boustany will hold one on March 17th—focused on how the federal government can better use evidence to help low-income individuals and families get ahead, as we both agree we need to evaluate more programs to figure out what works and what doesn’t. "The MIECHV program uses evidence-based models to achieve real results, and this is an approach we should take with more social programs across the federal government to determine whether they actually work. "The MIECHV program was designed based on evidence, and it is currently being evaluated to see whether it’s working as intended. We need to make sure more of our federal programs operate this way, and we look forward to working with our Democrat and Republican colleagues to do just that."
03.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Reichert received the 2014 Washington Trade Hero of the Year Award from the Washington Council of International Trade (WCIT) at their office in downtown Seattle. Rep. Reichert was selected for the award because of his championship of expanded trade which makes Washington one of the most successful states for families and businesses in the country. “It is an honor to be recognized for working with my colleagues on an issue that is so important to our great state,” said Rep. Reichert. “With so many goods and services - from our delicious apples to our computer software - in demand around the globe it is no wonder that trade supports 40% of jobs in our state. These well-paying jobs tied to trade help my hard-working constituents provide for their families. I thank WCIT for all of their work in helping educate others about the importance of trade and for today’s recognition.” WCIT President Eric Schinfield said, “The Washington Council on International Trade is pleased to present Representative Reichert with this award to recognize his leadership in fighting for Washington state’s global competitiveness. Not only can he be counted on consistently as a ‘yes’ vote on the key trade policies that matter to Washington employers, but also a leader in Congress who educates other elected officials about the importance and benefits of issues like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, Trade Promotion Authority, Ex-Im Bank, port competitiveness and the U.S. OUTDOOR Act.” Rep. Reichert serves on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and is a co-chair and founder of the Friends of TPP Congressional Caucus.
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, introduced the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015 (H.R. 1269) to establish a National Blue Alert system to help apprehend criminals who have seriously injured, killed, captured, or made imminent and credible threats of serious injury or death towards police officers. While multiple states employ such systems, there is currently no coordination or system at the national level. This bill recognizes the tragic murders and sacrifice of NYPD officer Ramos and Liu who were killed just before Christmas while on duty, sitting in their squad car in Brooklyn, NY. Officer Ramos was a father of two and had been with the NYPD for two years. Officer Liu had been with the force for seven years and had recently married. No actions of their own had provoked the December attack that took their lives. In such instances, the rapid dissemination of critical, time-sensitive information about suspected criminals who are planning an imminent attack on police officers is essential to keeping our communities safe and may have prevented the assassination of Officers Ramos and Liu. Rep. Reichert said, “Creating a National Blue Alert system is an important step towards providing the same protection for our men and women in law enforcement that they give to their communities each and every day. It can help prevent tragedy and keep our communities and loved ones safe. When criminals take action against law enforcement officers, everything in our power should be done to ensure their speedy apprehension and prevent further loss. Quickly disseminating information to ordinary citizens and public safety officers will empower communities and add to the tools at the disposal of law enforcement for keeping America safe.” “Our brave first responders put their lives on the line each and every day, so it’s our responsibility to make sure they have every resource at their disposal to ensure their safety,” stated Rep. Pascrell. “This legislation takes the critical step of creating a much-needed nationwide alert system that will allow proper coordination across multiple states. When a police officer is injured or killed in the line of duty, we owe it to their families and colleagues to do everything possible to apprehend the individual responsible.” The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015 has the full support of multiple Law Enforcement organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. Based on the success of the AMBER and SILVER Alert systems, it directs the Attorney General assign an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator responsible for creating voluntary guidelines to assist states in developing Blue Alert plans. These state Blue Alert plans will disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is killed or injured in the line of duty, as well as when there are active threats against police officers. While over 20 states have already developed Blue Alert systems, criminals do not respect borders, and to this end the Act encourages more states to establish such plans so they can quickly communicate and share information with each other and the public about potentially dangerous offenders on the run.
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after today's vote to pass a clean appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): “Today, I stood with House colleagues from both sides of the aisle to pass a bill that will fully fund the DHS through the end of the fiscal year. I believe that this is the responsible way to govern – not playing politics with our nation’s security and protection. There will be an avenue to address the President’s wrongful executive actions on immigration, through the courts and elsewhere, but it should not be used as a tool to jeopardize the safety of the American people.”
02.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after tonight's vote on a short-term CR to fund the Department of Homeland Security: “Today the House voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security for the next 7 days giving us an opportunity to come to an agreement with the Senate on final, yearly funding. This was not how I would have chosen to proceed, as I do not believe we should be playing politics with national security. Our job is to protect, not jeopardize, the safety of the American people. But that is also why I voted for this short-term bill because we cannot allow funding for the DHS to lapse. I will work with and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come to the table and come to a final agreement in the best interests of the American people.”
02.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA) of 2015 was passed out of the House Ways and Means Committee, including H.R. 943 – the Medicare Employer Relief Act – authored by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and John Lewis (D-GA). The Medicare Employer Relief Act would eliminate the IRS/SSA/CMS Data Match project (ISCDM) which was replaced by the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007. Under current law, ISCDM forces employers to provide information to CMS that they already have, forcing them to waste time and money to fulfill duplicative requirements. By eliminating this unnecessary statute, the Medicare Employer Relief Act will make employer-sponsored health insurance simpler and more accessible. “This is a common-sense fix to reduce unnecessary paperwork and make it simpler for employers to offer health insurance for countless Americans,” said Rep. Reichert. “I was honored to join Congressman Lewis in sponsoring this legislation that will save the federal government and American businesses both time and money by repealing an outdated provision of law that has since been replaced. I am happy to see it included as part of the broader PIMA package that passed out committee today and I look forward to seeing it come to the floor for a full House vote.” To read more about the larger legislative package, PIMA, click here.
02.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Upon hearing the news that the Pacific Maritime Association and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union have reached a tentative deal to end their contract negotiations, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “I am thrilled to hear that the PMA and ILWU have reached a tentative agreement putting an end to the months of negotiation. It is my hope that we can quickly begin to address the backlog of cargo at ports up and down the coast. We have high-quality goods waiting to be exported to countries around the world. While this is promising news, there is further work to be done. We have seen firsthand how important the efficient movement of goods is to Washington’s farmers, workers, and exporters and their ability to grow and succeed. Now, we must turn our attention to ensuring that they are not put in such a situation again.”
02.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last week U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) with Congressmen Schrader (D-OR), Newhouse (R-WA), and Costa (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House urging an end to the contract negotiation between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU). Now, just a week later, the resolution has been signed by 61 members of Congress. The members said, “This past weekend we saw the situation at the West Coast Ports continue to escalate to the point that the Secretary of Labor joined in the negotiations, urging a quick resolution. This is a good step, but the crisis facing not just the West Coast, but the entire nation, is very real. The fact that over 60 members have joined our resolution within the past week shows that Americans from across the country are being impacted. Both sides must reach an agreement as soon as possible. Our national economy in jeopardy.” The resolution is a follow up to several letters that Rep. Reichert has led with other members of Congress to both the presidents of the PMA and ILWU as well as to President Obama urging action from the Administration. These letters can be found here and here. The full text of the House resolution can be found here.
02.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – After the Administration's announcement that the Secretary of Labor would be heading to California to join the talks between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU), U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: "The situation at the West Coast Ports has reached a critical point and is impacting the economic health not just of the Pacific Northwest or even the West Coast, but the entire nation. After repeatedly raising this issue with the Administration and encouraging the President to take a more active role, I am pleased to see he is now taking steps to urge the ILWU and PMA to resolve their ongoing dispute and ‎come to terms. We cannot afford to let our farmers, workers, and manufacturers continue to lose business and market share."
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.R. 636 – America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act – which included 2 provisions from U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) to make permanent two tax provisions proven to foster growth on Main Street. These provisions specifically impact S Corporations and increase the ability of these small businesses to invest, hire and expand. The provisions were introduced as H.R. 629 and 630 and were included in today’s tax legislation package. Reichert applauded the House passage saying, “This bill, and the provisions I introduced with Congressman Kind, will significantly help small businesses access their capital and provide much-needed certainty, so that they can be successful and grow. S corporations are proven job creators and I am pleased that my House colleagues have recognized the need to make sure the tax code helps rather than hinders them as they support jobs and families all across this country.” Background: H.R. 629, which was included in H.R. 636, would make permanent the pre-2015 basis-adjustment rule for S Corporations that make charitable contributions of property, ensuring consistent treatment of charitable contributions between S Corporation shareholders and partners in a partnership. The second piece of legislation included in H.R. 636, H.R. 630, would make permanent a reduction of the recognition period for the built-in gains tax on S Corporation appreciated property from ten years to five years. Both of these provisions would be effective for tax years beginning after 2014. H.R. 636 passed the House by a vote of 272 to 142. To see a letter of support from over 40 organizations, click here.
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced a House Resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the current contract negotiation between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) must come to swift conclusion. The resolution also states that in the event of a strike or lockout, the Administration must intervene to end the dispute to protect American workers and the national economy. “This is one of the gravest threats to our nation right now,” said the Members. “We are seeing businesses, farmers, and manufacturers, affected all across the country. The slowdown is not just a West Coast problem, but a national problem. U.S. agriculture exports are down by over $440 million a week. The standstill in the negotiations has gone on for far too long and cannot continue.” The full resolution can be found here.
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-8) introduced H.R. 869, with his House Ways and Means colleague Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), to eliminate tax rules that are preventing thousands of local government employees from passing on their hard-earned health reimbursement account savings to their loved ones once they pass away. Reichert said, “Since 2008, state workers have had the ability to pass on medical benefits earned over years of service to the beneficiaries of their choice. Public employees, school teachers, utility district workers and so many other local government employees also deserve this right. It is a simple fix to extend this ability and I am glad that Congressman Blumenauer has partnered with me to take such a common sense step to help thousands of people, including over 55,000 in the Pacific Northwest.” “I’m pleased to be working with Congressman Reichert to repair this arbitrary and technical rule that harms families,” said Blumenauer. “This bill ensures that Oregon families receive the benefits owed to them and should be enacted as soon as possible.” “The introduction of this important bill will ensure that we are able to recruit and retain the best employees available by offering them health care benefits that match the private sector,” said Steve Pfaff, Commissioner of the Soos Creek Water and Sewer Distrcit which serves almost 100,000 people in King County. “Some of Soos Creek’s employees have worked hard to build up substantial VEBA accounts to pay for their health care and that of their families, as had been permitted when they entered the program. Revenue Ruling 2006-36 changed the game and disallowed a practice that had taken place for almost 20 years. This legislation would eliminate that inequity.” Douglas County PUD General Manager Bill Dobbins said, “We are very thankful this bill is being introduced. It proposes a much-needed change for local government employees who for years have set money aside in their VEBA accounts. These prudent savers deserve options in designating beneficiaries so the earnings they have accumulated during their years of service are rightfully retained by their families. With the appropriate options available for designating beneficiaries, employers and employees will likely continue to participate in this important savings program.” This legislation was first introduced by Congressmen Reichert and Blumenauer in 2011. A 2006 IRS ruling imposes rules on health reimbursement arrangements which cause participants in these plans to lose earned benefits if they die without a spouse or dependent. In 2008, Congress passed the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 7327) that addressed this situation for certain HRA plans (those created in conjunction with public retirement systems), but not all. This bill provides a technical fix to include plans established by or on behalf of a state or political subdivision. Supporters of the legislation include the Association of Washington Cities, the Public Power Council, Washington Public Ports Association, Washington Association of Sewer and Water Districts, the Washington Association of School Business Officials, the Washington PUD association, Association of Washington School Principals, the Public Generating Pool, the Washington Fire Commissioners Association, and the Washington State School Directors’ Association.
02.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, after learning that there will be a temporary shutdown of the West Coast ports for the coming weekend, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) issued the following statement: “The weekend shutdown of West Coast ports heightens concerns that there will be a longer-term shutdown. This is unacceptable. For months, our businesses, farmers and workers have been harmed by the ongoing contract negotiations between the PMA and ILWU. We have seen employees laid off, produce going to waste, and businesses lose market share which may never be recovered. We have seen this fear and uncertainty spread across the country as the effects begin to take hold nationally. The Administration cannot sit on the sidelines. While I understand this shutdown is temporary, I am concerned about what this means for our future ability to transport goods efficiently and effectively. I strongly urge PMA and ILWU to put aside their differences and resolve their dispute.” For more on this issue, click here and here.
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced H.R. 629 and 630 to make permanent two tax provisions proven to foster growth on Main Street. These provisions specifically impact S Corporations and increase the ability of these small businesses to invest, hire and expand. Rep. Reichert said, “S Corporations are proven job creators and it is our job as legislators to make sure the tax code helps them to access the capital they need to grow, remain competitive and help get Americans back to work. I am pleased to introduce these bipartisan pieces of legislation with my colleague Congressman Kind, because our tax code should encourage growth rather than stifle it. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance policies that help our small businesses create jobs and support families across the country.” “These commonsense, bipartisan bills will bring stability and simplicity to the tax code to make it easier for many small businesses to create good jobs and help sustain local communities,” said Rep. Kind. “There are nearly 60,000 S Corporations in Wisconsin alone, so supporting these job creators is a top priority as we work to strengthen the economy in Wisconsin and across the country.” Brian Reardon, Executive Director of the S Corporation Association said, “Local communities rely on Main Street businesses for jobs and investment, and those businesses rely on Congress to make the tax rules fair and predictable. We strongly support the continued efforts of Cong. Reichert and Cong. Kind to permanently extend these provisions to make it easier for S corporations across the country to access their own capital and put it to better use as well as encourage them to give back to their communities.” Background: The first piece of legislation, H.R. 629, would make permanent the pre-2015 basis-adjustment rule for S Corporations that make charitable contributions of property, ensuring consistent treatment of charitable contributions between S Corporation shareholders and partners in a partnership. The second piece of legislation, H.R. 630, would make permanent a reduction of the recognition period for the built-in gains tax on S Corporation appreciated property from ten years to five years. Both of these provisions would be effective for tax years beginning after 2014. Both bills will be included in a Ways and Means mark-up of tax legislation later this week.
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, over 80 members of the United States Congress sent a letter, led by Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR), to the International Longshoreman Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) calling upon them to put aside their differences and quickly resolve the contract negotiation that has bogged down the operations of West Coast ports. “As the negotiations continue, our farmers, businesses and manufacturers are left with lost sales, increased costs, and concerns about the future,” said Reps. Reichert and Schrader. “They depend on the efficient movement of goods and access to international markets, both of which have been impacted by the negotiations. Trade, both imports and exports, is critical to our communities and our national economy, and the longer these negotiations last the more the results are felt across the country. A federal negotiator has already joined in the negotiations, but we strongly urge both organizations to come to an agreement for the good of the entire nation.” This is the third letter that Reps. Reichert and Schrader have led urging a swift resolution to the contract negotiations. The text of the letter is below. ______________ Dear Mr. McEllrath and Mr. McKenna: On behalf of our constituents, who depend on trade and the efficient flow of commerce, we strongly urge both parties to quickly resolve their differences and put an end to the nine months of negotiations. The impact of the current negotiations on port operations and the movement of goods is felt in all parts of the supply chain and across the entire country. Our constituents are losing business, letting employees go, and worrying about the future. As trade supports over 38 million jobs across the country, we strongly urge your organizations to reach an agreement, because the inability to reach consumers outside our borders impacts jobs here at home. The efficient flow of goods is critical to our regional and national economy. In fact, last year, according to the Department of Commerce, imports and exports comprised thirty percent of our nation’s gross domestic product (GDP), as our total trade reached five trillion dollars. These numbers highlight the importance of trade to our economy and emphasize how we rely on our infrastructure, and, especially in this case, our seaports. The millions of jobs supported by this commerce also offer a glimpse at how the economic activity supported and driven by our ports reaches far beyond their borders to our farms, manufacturing facilities, and businesses. Therefore, the inability to ship perishable products in a timely manner and to import manufacturing inputs is devastating to communities across the country. As these negotiations continue, the U.S. agriculture industry suffers as our specialty crop producers are facing lost export sales and increased costs for cold storage, and the U.S. meat and poultry industry estimates losing at least $40 million each week. This will have a long-term impact as well, as our farmers lose market share. We were pleased to see that your organizations jointly requested the assistance of a federal mediator, and we had hoped this would help facilitate a resolution. However, we are becoming increasingly concerned the negotiations are not progressing and a shutdown is possible, which our trade-dependent communities, and nation cannot withstand. According to recent studies, the ten day West Coast port shutdown that occurred in 2002 cost the economy over $15 billion. A study by the National Retail Federation and National Association of Manufacturers suggests a current day shutdown would be worse – over $21 billion for ten days and impacting 169,000 jobs. Moreover, even if a resolution is reached quickly, our constituents will endure months of attempting to clear the backlog at the ports and some business may never be recovered. We again urge you to come to a swift resolution for our workers, ports, communities, manufacturers and farmers.
01.30.2015	WASHINGTON – The World Champion Seattle Seahawks are back for Super Bowl XLIX and are ready to repeat as reigning Super Bowl champs! In the spirit of the biggest sports event of the year, the Washington House delegation decided to extend a friendly wager to the Massachusetts House delegation. With Seattle’s victory, the Massachusetts House delegation will provide an array of regional treats to Washington members. “On Super Bowl Sunday, the Seattle Seahawks will strut into the University of Phoenix Stadium and deflate Tom Brady’s ego. We look forward to watching Russell Wilson and his team take down the New Englanders just like he did the last time the Seahawks played the Patriots. In this East Coast versus West Coast matchup, we know our defense will carry the Hawks to victory, and we’re excited to welcome them back to Washington D.C. for a repeat visit to the White House,” said the Washington delegation. In the off chance the Seahawks don’t walk away triumphant, the Washington delegation has placed local products on the line. “With a three-time Super Bowl Champion and two-time MVP under center, there is a reason why the majority of Americans believe the Patriots will win this Sunday. Throughout the season and especially in the post season, we have seen the creative genius of Bill Belichik and Josh McDaniels utterly confuse and frustrate some of the league’s best defenses. However we believe the Seahawks will have even more trouble overcoming our league best secondary. Above all, we’re very excited to see the Patriots meet President Obama for the first time,” said the Massachusetts delegation. The products wagered by the Washington House delegation include: Rep. Suzan DelBene (01-Wash.): Chateau St. Michelle wine Rep. Rick Larsen (02-Wash.): Useless Bay Coffee Company coffee Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (03-Wash.): Candy from Chehalis Mints Rep. Dan Newhouse (04-Wash.): Tieton American craft cider and Chukar chocolate-covered cherries Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (05-Wash.): WSU Cougar Gold Cheese and Walla Walla wine Rep. Derek Kilmer (06-Wash.): Northern Fish smoked salmon and Brown and Haley almond roca Rep. Jim McDermott (07-Wash.): Theo Chocolate, Hilliard’s beer and Pike Place salmon Rep. Dave Reichert (08-Wash.): Boehm's Chocolate, Blueberry Hill Farm's blueberry pies, and Washington apples Rep. Adam Smith (09-Wash.): Oberto beef jerky and POP! Gourmet Popcorn Rep. Denny Heck (10-Wash.): Blue Max Meats Beast Mode sausage and Dillanos coffee Delegation: Skittles The Massachusetts House delegation has offered: Congressman Richard Neal (01-Mass.): One bottle each of Berkshire Mountain Distillers Whiskey and Gin Congressman Jim McGovern (02-Mass.): Wormtown beer Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (03-Mass.): Cedar’s hummus and pita chips Congressman Joe Kennedy III (04-Mass.): Kuppels bagels Congresswoman Katherine Clark (05-Mass.): NECCO candy Congressman Seth Moulton (06-Mass.): Marshmallow Fluff Congressman Michael Capuano (07-Mass.): Sam Adams beer Congressman Stephen Lynch (08-Mass.): Harpoon beer Congressman Bill Keating (09-Mass.): Craisins
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after tonight's State of the Union Address: “Tonight, we heard many things from President Obama about his plans for the future of the nation. He said it was up to us to choose what we want for the next 15 years. I agree. Our future is in our hands. It is up to us as Americans to shape the next 15 years, and we will be faced with many choices. “In the next 15 years, I want to see a prosperous America that is leading the global economy, excelling in educating our children, providing affordable health care choices to families, seniors and veterans, and driving innovation and energy production. I want to see an America who keeps its citizens safe, both at home on our neighborhood streets and in the global fight against terrorism. “We will need to work together with the President to make this vision a reality, and the President will have to work with us. To fulfill the promises he’s made and to go about the business of responsible government, the President must act with the consent of Congress and not around it. I am committed to working with my colleagues to do just that. “I am committed to many of the same goals that the President is. We need to pass trade promotion authority to conclude and bring home the benefits of new high-standard, comprehensive trade agreements, which open up new markets to our farmers, workers, and businesses. We must continue working to find energy solutions so that families do not have to worry about paying their bills and making ends meet. “That is why we must make sure that tax dollars go where they belong – back to hard-working Americans. We cannot take money just to find new ways to spend it. I am concerned that many of the proposals the President laid out tonight will do just that. Instead of working to reduce waste and grow our economy, they will just add to the already too-large burden placed on the American people. The tax code must work for the American people not the other way around. We must reform the tax code, not add to it. I am committed to pursuing real, meaningful tax reform with my Ways and Means colleagues so that small businesses workers and families will have certainty to plan for the future.‎ “I want our children and grandchildren to grow up in the great America I grew up in. I want them to know the joy of pursuing the American dream. I believe that if we work together and hold each other accountable we can leave behind a legacy that will promise them that future.”
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on legislation both to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and to address the president’s executive actions on immigration, H.R. 240 – the DHS Appropriations Act. After final passage of the bill, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “National security is a top priority and in light of recent events, I am glad to see the House take a strong vote to fund the programs that will help keep our nation safe. A critical part of national security is protecting our borders. Today, I believe that we made it clear to the president that those borders are to be respected. The unilateral actions he has taken on immigration are counter to the Constitution and an overreach of power. It is only with thorough debate and Congressional action that we can secure our borders and establish a process for those who have come here in pursuit of the American Dream to make a better life for themselves and their families, and allow these individuals to come out of the shadows. “This is a top priority for me. I will continue to encourage and advocate that my Congressional colleagues make immigration reform a top priority for this Congress. Among the votes I took today, I opposed an amendment that would have put an end to the deferred action program for children who were brought here through no decision making of their own and who know no other home than America. It is simply wrong. We must continue to be a nation that opens our arms to those seeking refuge and those who wish to create a better future. That is the beacon of hope we have always offered to people around the world. We must do this by reforming a failing immigration system. We must make the legal process more efficient and we must come up with a responsible and caring process to for those who have lived their lives in the United States. Together, we can achieve this goal and I will not give up until it has been accomplished.” The DHS Appropriations Act passed by a vote of 236 to 191. The five amendments dealing with immigration can be found here.
12.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States Senate passed legislation from U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Senator Patty Murray to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area in Washington State and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. The legislation was included as part of the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Rep. Reichert first introduced legislation to designate the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area in 2007, and he has since tirelessly championed its passage in order to preserve the stunning landscape for future generations. The House passed the 2014 NDAA, with the wilderness legislation, last week. “I am so pleased to see the Alpine Lakes legislation pass the Senate today, sending it to the President for signature to become law,” said Reichert. “This has been a priority project of mine since 2007 when I first introduced it. The process has involved a lot of hard work and patience, but we came together and got it through Congress, and now it’s on its way to the President’s desk where it is expected to be signed into law shortly. Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area is truly one of the gems of Washington State and I am excited to see this beautiful natural and economic legacy preserved for our children and grandchildren.” The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. Key elements of the Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these 21,000 acres of public land into wilderness has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center. Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-1) is a co-sponsor of the House legislation
12.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement after the passage of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015: "I applaud the passage of tonight’s bill that will keep the government open. This bipartisan, bicameral measure will responsibly fund our nation’s priorities, including measures to protect jobs, strengthen education, improve access to healthcare, rein in government overreach, and support our troops and first responders. When we return to Congress next year, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to further address the nation’s challenges."
12.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Members of Congress Dave Reichert (WA-8), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5), Doc Hastings (WA-4), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3), Kurt Schrader (OR-5), Greg Walden (OR-2), and Mike Simpson (ID-2) sent a letter to President Obama to ask that he encourage the International Longshoreman Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association to use a federal mediator in order to bring about a swift resolution to their current contract negotiations. The members said, “Communities throughout the Pacific Northwest and across the country rely on thriving ports – which support hundreds of thousands of jobs in our states – to export their products around the world. We strongly urge a swift resolution to the current contract negotiations because countless workers, farmers, consumers, businesses, and families depend on it.” This is the second letter Pacific Northwest members of Congress have sent regarding the ILWU and PMA to call for a quick resolution. The first letter was sent directly to the organizations and the text can be found here. The full text of the letter to the president is below. Dear Mr. President, We urge you to encourage the International Longshoremen Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) to use a federal mediator in resolving their current contract negotiations. As members who represent areas which depend on ports, we are concerned about the length of these negotiations and the resulting impact on our constituents. As these negotiations continue, our ports are losing business we know will not return. This is detrimental to our ports, those who work at the ports and communities across the state. This significantly impacts the economy of the Pacific Northwest and the country as a whole. Each day, we are contacted by our constituents who are feeling the real impact of these negotiations on port operations. Efficient movement of goods is critical for all industries, including agriculture and manufacturing. Our specialty crop producers, who depend on international markets, are unable to export their products and meet customer demands. Our manufacturers face similar challenges of higher costs, lost sales, and delayed production. Across the globe, Washington state products are in demand, but our businesses are facing significant challenges in reaching these consumers. We recognize the serious task before the parties. However, after over six months of negations, we strongly believe a federal mediator has become necessary. Moreover, we are increasingly concerned that there could be a shutdown at the ports as occurred in 2002. It is estimated that the previous shutdown cost our economy over a billion dollars a day. We cannot afford to let this happen. To follow up on the requests made by our constituents, the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma, and numerous Washington businesses, we strongly believe that a federal mediator is needed to bring a swift resolution to these contract negotiations.
12.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – After today’s Ways and Means Subcommittee Selection, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement: “I am honored to have the opportunity to serve as the Chairman of the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee. Among the issues facing our nation, reforming our tax code is one of the most critical. Our businesses must be given the opportunities to grow, invest and hire without a tax code that hinders this ability. For our families, it effects their ability to put food on the table, to send their kids to college, to grow their businesses, and to balance their budgets. Our current tax code is outdated, largely incomprehensible, and overly burdensome. We have the ability to change that. I look forward to working with Chairman Ryan and the rest of my Ways and Means colleagues to ensure that tax reform becomes a reality. “I am also pleased to remain on the Trade Subcommittee. As a long-time advocate of expanding trade, I will continue to fight for new opportunities for our workers, farmers and businesses across the country. There are many opportunities on the horizon, and I am committed to ensuring that we bring the job-creating benefits home. Millions of jobs in the U.S., including hundreds of thousands in Washington State, depend on trade and I will continue to support those whose livelihood depend on trade.”
12.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation from U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area in Washington State and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. The legislation was first introduced by Rep. Reichert in 2007, and he has since tirelessly championed the wilderness protection of Alpine Lakes in order to preserve this local gem for future generations. “I am thrilled to see the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act pass the House today as part of a lands package included within the National Defense Authorization Act,” said Reichert. “Making this long-time goal a reality has been one of my top priorities since introducing this bill in 2007. I have worked tirelessly with my House and Senate colleagues as well as community members and local stakeholders – all who share my vision of preserving and protecting Alpine Lakes. The Alpine Lakes area is a perfect example of the natural beauty of our great state that also contributes to job creation and the success of local economies. This is the kind of legacy I want passed down to our children and grandchildren and with today’s House passage I truly believe that Alpine Lakes will forever be a part of their heritage.” The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. Key elements of the Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these 21,000 acres of public land into wilderness has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center. Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-1) is a co-sponsor of the House legislation and Senate companion legislation was introduced by Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray. The Senate is expected to take up and pass the National Defense Authorization Act next week, including the Alpine Lakes legislation.
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) and his House colleagues passed the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act which would require states to allow individuals with disabilities to set up tax free ABLE savings accounts. These accounts would be used for expenses incurred related to addressing the disability of the individual. Not only will they provide financial support, but they provide for the freedom to pursue independence and the best possible quality of life. “A parent never rests until they know their child is safe and cared for. For many parents of children with disabilities, this just isn’t possible under current law as I have seen in the case of my own godson Kyle. Individuals with disabilities too often lose critical assistance if they begin to work towards a better future for themselves by pursuing the independence of holding a job. The ABLE Act allows parents to save for their child’s future expenses, particularly if their child does not have the ability to support themselves. These are real people who are working hard to overcome real challenges and right now current law hinders rather than helps that. Now, with the ABLE Act, ABLE accounts will allow individuals, or their families, to pay into a tax-free account to help with the costs associated with overcoming a disability. This ranges from uncovered health care, education costs, housing needs, transportation costs, assistive technology, and personal support services. There is nothing more satisfying than ensuring the health and happiness of our children and I am proud today to have passed legislation that will secure a better a future for so many of America’s children.” As Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources Rep. Reichert was a leader in getting the ABLE Act marked up and passed out of the Ways and Means Committee on July 31, 2014. This action allowed it to come before the full House for a vote. The House passed the ABLE Act by a vote of 404 to 17. For more details on the ABLE Act, click here.
11.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement in response to the president's announcement that he would be taking executive action on immigration: “Last night, President Obama announced his plan for immigration to the nation. It is deeply concerning to me that the President has chosen to independently pursue a course of action on this issue without consultation with Congress. I believe that our immigration system is broken and that we can find and must find a solution, but it is not up to the President to do it alone. Congress and the President must work together to find an effective solution, and that can only happen if we first address the problems with our border security and collaborate to help those pursuing the American dream come out of the shadows. This is what we were elected to do.”
11.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement after the House Natural Resources Committee passed the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 1785) out of committee: “I am very pleased that Chairman Hastings and the Natural Resources Committee unanimously passed my Mountains to Sound Greenway legislation this morning. Ensuring the proper recognition of both the achievements and beauty of our state, will always be a top priority for me. The Mountains to Sound Greenway is an important part of that, as it has played a role in nearly every major industry in the state – from agriculture to energy to technology. This legislation will highlight the heritage and legacy of the area while also protecting property rights. Clearing the committee is a critical step in the legislative process and I will continue working with my colleagues to make this law.” Background Twenty years of innovative conservation and collaborative solutions protect the natural heritage of the Greenway. This network of parks, forests, farms, and cities is part of a regional history and a legacy for future generations. The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area will be a fitting recognition of this regional identity in the Pacific Northwest, and serve as a model of sustainability and cooperative solutions for the nation. A National Heritage Area is a large, lived-in area designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a landscape of national distinction. This designation provides a flexible strategy to encourage residents, government agencies, nonprofit groups and private partners to collaboratively plan and implement projects to preserve a landscape, without affecting private property rights.
11.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, the House Committee on Natural Resources will mark up U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert’s (WA-8) Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 1785). This is the first heritage designation markup in Congressman Doc Hasting’s (WA-4) four-year tenure as Chairman. “This markup is an important step in the process to making the Mountains to Sound Greenway a nationally recognized Heritage area and my hope is that the committee will favorably report it,” said Reichert. “While the Greenway already offers immense beauty and recreation opportunities to its surrounding communities, this legislation would help boost the economies of the area, allowing businesses to take advantage of the tourism and recreation industries that flourish in our state. I thank Chairman Hastings for taking up this important legislation and I am proud to champion the effort to highlight this Washington State gem.” To watch the committee mark up, a live feed will be available here at 10:00 am tomorrow.
11.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement after voting yes to approve the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: “Building the Keystone pipeline would be a victory for American workers and the American economy. It would create thousands of jobs, improve U.S. energy security and promote overall economic growth. It is a critical component to achieving an all-of-the-above energy policy that balances traditional and new energy sources. I hope the Senate will pass, and the President sign, this measure and allow us to finally get to work on this important project.” H.R. 5682 passed the House by a vote of 252 to 161.
11.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee marked up the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act, a companion piece of legislation to the House bill introduced by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) which would help protect this historical, natural Washington State icon. Upon its passage out of the Senate committee, Reichert said, “This is another critical step to ensure that the Mountains to Sound Greenway is preserved for future generations. This corridor of land is rich both in beauty and opportunity and a heritage designation will continue to help the surrounding communities to thrive as thousands of tourists and recreationalists visit the area every year, from Washington and the entire country. I will continue to work hard to pass the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act in the House and I thank Senator Cantwell for introducing this legislation in the Senate and for working alongside me.” Background Twenty years of innovative conservation and collaborative solutions protect the natural heritage of the Greenway. This network of parks, forests, farms, and cities is part of a regional history and a legacy for future generations. The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area will be a fitting recognition of this regional identity in the Pacific Northwest, and serve as a model of sustainability and cooperative solutions for the nation. National Heritage Area is a large, lived-in area designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a landscape of national distinction. This designation provides a flexible strategy to encourage residents, government agencies, nonprofit groups and private partners to collaboratively plan and implement projects to preserve a landscape, without affecting private property rights.
10.31.2014	Issaquah, WA – Rep. Reichert issued the following statement in response to the news from Providence Regional Medical Center Everett tonight: "It is with immense sadness that we learned of the passing of Shaylee Chuckulnaskit tonight. I continue to pray for Shaylee’s family, friends, and the entire Marysville community. Our children are precious and the heartbreak and devastation that their tragic death brings can only be softened by being surrounded with compassionate and caring people. May we all be those people for the Marysville community during this time as we keep them all in our prayers.”
10.27.2014	Issaquah, WA – Friday, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, sent a letter to Washington State Governor Jay Inslee inquiring about the effectiveness of the administration’s oversight of the state foster care system. The letter is intended to provide oversight on the use of goals and quality measures by the administration designed to ensure that Washington’s foster youth are receiving the best possible care. The Human Resources Subcommittee oversees the nation’s foster care system. Reichert has served as its chair since the beginning of the 113th Congress and in that capacity has introduced and passed several pieces of legislation, including the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act (H.R. 4058), whose key provisions were signed into law as part of P.L. 113-183 in September. The full text of Reichert’s letter to Governor Inslee is below. _______________ Governor Jay Inslee Office of the Governor PO Box 40002 Olympia, WA 98504-0002 Dear Governor Inslee, Protecting the young people of Washington has been one of my top goals throughout my career in public service, both as the Sheriff of King County and during my time in Congress. Because of this, and as the Chairman of the House committee with jurisdiction over the nation’s foster care system, I am concerned about recent changes your Administration made in how Washington’s foster care system sets goals and measures its performance. I am writing to seek more information about these new goals and measurements in order to ensure that our State’s foster youth are receiving the best possible services . This past July, your administration released the Children’s Administration Strategic Metrics Plan through the Washington Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS). This plan replaces the metrics and outcomes set forth in the Braam Settlement Agreement that expired in December 2013. The Braam Settlement set tangible and ambitious goals that the foster care system was expected to achieve. In contrast, your Administration’s plan appears to take a less comprehensive approach to monitoring and measuring the achievement of the foster care system, both by having fewer metrics as well as by setting lower expectations for system performance than was the case under the Braam Settlement. In order to better understand your Administration’s motivation in making these changes, I respectfully request that you answer the following questions: 1. Why did your Administration oppose the extension of the Braam Settlement? 2. Why does your Administration’s plan not include 19 of the 21 metrics required under the Braam Settlement? Please provide your rationale for not including each of these 19 excluded metrics. 3. For the Braam Settlement metrics your plan chose to retain (i.e. caseloads per caseworker and monthly health and safety visits), why does your plan set lower expectations for system performance than under the Braam Settlement? For example, the Braam Settlement expected foster children to receive a private, individual face-to-face health and safety visit at least once per month. In contrast, your plan fails to require that such visits be private, individual or face-to-face. Why? 4. Why does your plan focus on simply gathering data, as opposed to holding the foster care system accountable for achieving specific outcomes designed to better protect children? For example, under the Braam Settlement, 90 percent of caseworkers were expected to have a caseload of 18 cases or fewer; under your Administration’s plan, the foster care system simply is expected to report the number of CPS workers with more than 25 cases. 5. Do you believe that a foster care evaluation model should include metrics that are “one-and-done” (with the responsibility of the State to measure outcomes expiring if the metric has been achieved even once), or should performance always be measured against key benchmarks, so that the program is always held accountable for achieving important goals and evaluation is always a part of program management? 6. Why does your plan lack a timeframe for improvement by DSHS? I believe that using metrics and holding a system like foster care accountable for achieving key goals is an important safeguard for children, and something that should be incorporated into ongoing program operation. I look forward to receiving your responses to the questions above, and to working with you to ensure that our State’s foster youth are properly protected so they can grow up and become thriving, successful members of our community. Sincerely, Dave Reichert Chairman
10.24.2014	Issaquah, WA – Rep. Reichert issued the following statement in response to today's events in Marysville: "It is with great sadness that I learned of today’s tragedy in Marysville. My thoughts and prayers go out to the staff, students, and families of Marysville-Pilchuck High School. I pray for a quick recovery for the injured students, and I mourn with the rest of our community for those who lost their lives today."
10.17.2014	Issaquah, WA – Rep. Reichert issued the following statement in response to the ongoing situation concerning the Ebola virus: "The ongoing Ebola crisis is one of great concern to us all. My thoughts are with the men and women taking up the task of caring for and working to provide treatment and supplies to those here at home as well as in widely-effected nations. This is not without a great deal of risk to their own health and livelihood, and I am impressed by the soldiers and healthcare workers involved in these efforts and their commitment to serving others. I continue to pray for all of those who have contracted the disease and hope for a complete and speedy recovery as well as effective treatment and containment of this virus. I stand ready with my colleagues to take whatever action is deemed most appropriate to end this outbreak abroad and prevent any further occurrences in the United States."
10.07.2014	Issaquah, WA – Rep. Reichert presented Susan Chung, founder of the Korean Adoptee Family Foundation (KORAFF) with the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) “Angel in Adoption” award. Ms. Chung, a resident of Sammamish, has greatly given back to her community by helping families who have adopted Korean children understand their birth nation’s heritage and culture through the founding and running of KORAFF. KORAFF offers educational programs designed to encourage children to identify with their native cultures and serves as a valuable resource for both parents and children. Reichert stated, “I was honored to nominate Ms. Chung for this recognition. Her dedication to service and to these families is undeniable and she is a leading light in the 8th District. Her love of and passion for her work is evident in everything she does, and I know the benefits endowed by KORAFF programs reach far beyond individuals, and enrich entire communities.” Background CCAI was created in 2001 by the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Coalition on Adoption to raide Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. The Angels in Adoption program began in 1999 as a Congressional press conference to recognizing individuals who were outstanding in this area. The program has since developed and is now a yearlong awareness campaign that culminates in an awards ceremony and Gala celebration in Washington, D.C.
10.02.2014	Washington, D.C. – This week, the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act (H.R. 4980) was signed into law by President Obama. This bipartisan legislation includes bills from Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-8) to prevent the sex trafficking of youth in foster care (H.R. 4058) and to ensure proper child support payments even when a parent lives abroad (H.R. 1896). Reichert said, “This legislation becoming law is a victory for American children. We have committed to protecting foster kids and we are responsible for their safety and success, yet for too long we have not lived up to that that promise. In 33 years of law enforcement, I saw all too often the tragic circumstances these children could end up in if not properly taken care of. Now, this new law will help protect children from the horrors of sex trafficking and give them opportunities to lead more normal and successful lives.” Real-life survivor and Rights4Girls Advocate "T" Ortiz Walker Pettigrew said, "The signing of H.R. 4980 into law is more than a dream come true. As an advocate pushing for the public to recognize these issues, it is with great admiration that I thank those who helped make this law a reality. It will help so many young people, families, and social systems tp practically address the issue of domestic trafficking of this country's already vulnerable populations. Many aspects of this law, including engaging young people as respected members of the planning team for their own lives, will make a world of difference in shaping successful outcomes. Sharing my story on a federal level has not been easy, but watching those of power take action to make a difference in the lives of others made it all worth it." “At Treehouse, we are whole-heartedly committed to transforming the lives of kids in foster care by helping them experience a real childhood, and providing them the support that all kids need to graduate from high school with a plan for their future. We were thrilled to join Congressman Reichert in support of this important legislation to empower youth to participate in the planning of their transition from foster care. We as a community have a special responsibility to kids in care, and by enabling them to define their own course and develop the self-determination and problem-solving skills needed to be self-sufficient young adults, we are helping to build their future prospects and avoid tragic outcomes like sex trafficking,” stated Janis Avery, Treehouse CEO. “The Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act will help ensure children in foster care find the permanent, loving families they deserve and promote adoptions from foster care. The legislation addresses sex trafficking of youth in foster care and demonstrates that Congress has made it a priority to protect the many children at risk of being trafficked every year in the United States. The Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act will empower children and families by helping foster children lead normal lives, giving older foster youth more control over their future, and increasing the likelihood that children find permanent families rather than languishing in foster care," said First Focus Campaign for Children president Bruce Lesley. Jim Theofelis, Founder and Executive Director of the Mockingbird Society said, “At The Mockingbird Society, we work with young people to change policies and perceptions that stand in the way of every child having a safe, stable home. This legislation is an important step towards ensuring our government policies treat young people involved in sex trafficking as survivors instead of criminals, providing the support necessary to keep them out or get them out of dangerous situations. I want to thank Congressman Reichert for his leadership on this issue and for always welcoming the input of our young people.” “We must do everything possible to ensure young people in the child welfare system who have also faced the horrors of trafficking are supported to heal and prepare for the future; we owe them that. Congressman Reichert’s leadership and support of this issue is critical,” said Dr. Melinda Giovengo, Executive Director of YouthCare, a Seattle-based organization providing essential services to runaway, homeless, and sexually exploited youth and young adults. “We see too many youth walk through our doors having had their childhoods stolen away. We know that youth on the run from care are incredibly vulnerable to sexual exploitation. We also know the future is still out ahead for each of them. We owe youth in young adults in this situation the opportunity to discover their potential and thrive in life. The improvements of HR 4980 will go a long way to keeping our community’s children safe and moving forward.” The new law will specifically act to prevent sex trafficking by: Requiring state child welfare agencies to identify, document, and determine appropriate services for children in foster care or who are otherwise involved in the child welfare system who are victims of child sex trafficking or at risk of becoming victims. Requiring state child welfare agencies to promote "normalcy" for youth in foster care allowing them to more easily participate in age appropriate social, scholastic and enrichment activities.
10.02.2014	Washington, D.C. – This week, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) was named a “Champion for Children” by the First Focus Campaign for Children. The award recognizes the top 100 members in Congress, both House and Senate, who consistently advocate for children. After the announcement, Reichert said, “I am honored to be named a ‘Champion for Children’ this year. I have always believed, whether it was as Sheriff of King County during my 33 years in law enforcement, or as a member of Congress and chairman of the Human Resources Subcommittee, that it is my job and my privilege to fight for the most vulnerable, whoever they may be. All too often it is America’s kids. They are the ones who will shape and lead the future, and I want to ensure that they receive the best possible support from us to be able to make wise choices, receive a high-quality education, enter a thriving and economically viable workforce, and succeed as adults. Whether a foster child, an only child, or one of 7 like myself, every child deserves equal opportunities.” Reichert is chairman of the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee which oversees the country’s foster care system. He recently helped author H.R. 4980, a bill package that included critical reforms to help foster youth get into permanent homes and live happy, successful lives. It also included Reichert’s legislation to prevent the sex trafficking of youth in foster care. Additionally, Reichert is a founder and co-chair of the Children’s Health Care Caucus which works to promote policy that will result in better health outcomes for children across the nation. The Champion for Children Award recognizes the members who have best “demonstrated extraordinary initiative” to “improve the health, educational outcomes, and well-being of children”, according to First Focus. To learn more, visit their website here.
09.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Greg Walden, (R-OR), Jared Polis (D-CO), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Mike Thompson, (D-CA), introduced thebipartisan U.S. Optimal Use of Trade to Develop Outerwear and Outdoor Recreation (OUTDOOR) Act (H.R. 5646) to reduce tariffs on recreational performance apparel. The legislation would make products like jackets and pants more affordable for American consumers, encourage participation in outdoor activities, and help designers and retailers of performance apparel better compete in the global economy. The Congressmen said, “The American Dream is built on the idea of exploration and economic success, and the OUTDOOR Act works to promote both of those concepts and make them a reality. From canoeing to mountain climbing, Americans have found ways to enjoy the outdoors in every season of the year, and outfitting them with innovative apparel is a major job-creating industry. This legislation is a needed update to antiquated and unreasonably high tariffs set on recreational performance apparel, and more importantly it will help employers grow their businesses, remove a hidden tax on consumers, and continue to foster interest in America’s outdoor recreation.” “I commend the Representatives and Senators Cantwell and Ayotte for coming together in a bipartisan effort to support the outdoor recreation industry, a vital part of the economy at the state and national level,” said OIA President and CEO Frank Hugelmeyer. “The U.S. OUTDOOR Act will lower costs for outdoor businesses, fuel innovation, attract more consumers to get outdoors using high-quality, affordable apparel and will create more jobs in the United States. We look forward to the enactment of this important legislation.” BACKGROUND According to the Outdoor Industry Association, American consumers spend over $640 billion each year on outdoor recreation, in so doing supporting an industry that is directly and indirectly tied to 12 million American jobs. H.R. 5646 creates new Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) breakouts for both knit and woven recreational performance outerwear and changes tariff rates for these clothing items to duty-free, thereby eliminating the “hidden tax” on these goods. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) introduced companion legislation in the Senate.
09.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Representatives Dave Reichert, Jim McDermott, Aaron Schock, Ron Kind, Pat Tiberi, and Bill Pascrell introduced the Teacher Tax Relief Act, H.R. 5504, to make permanent the deduction allowed for teachers who purchase classroom supplies out of pocket and expands the deduction to the include professional development expenses. “Too often teachers spend their own hard-earned money in order to provide their students with basic school supplies,” said the Representatives. “Our bill will alleviate some of the financial burden placed on today’s teachers while also making a significant investment in the education and the futures of America’s children. This bipartisan legislation will allow teachers to expand their knowledge, keep skills current, and equip themselves and their students for success.” Director of NEA Government Relations Mary Kusler said, “Educators nationwide who work to create successful learning environments for all of their students appreciate the leadership and support of the bipartisan sponsors of this bill. In recent years, educators have spent $1.6 billion of their own money to ensure their students have basic supplies and instructional materials that help them meet their goals. Providing educators with a modest tax deduction that will now keep pace with inflation, is an important recognition of educators’ daily sacrifices on behalf of the students they serve.” BACKGROUND Every year educators across the country foot the bill for basic classroom supplies out of dedication to teaching and to their students. In fact, the National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752. Additionally, teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our teachers and our children. The legislation is written to adjust for inflation so that the deduction keeps pace with the growing cost to teachers.
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after today's House votes on training Syrian rebels and keeping the government open: “Today, I voted with my House colleagues to give President Obama the authority to train and equip vetted Syrian rebels who are actively fighting against ISIL. This authorization comes with strict oversight and a requirement for consistent reporting on progress to ensure the Administration communicates properly with Congress and the American people. All of this is a step towards developing a real and complete strategy that will eliminate ISIL as a threat. “This amendment was part of the larger Continuing Resolution (CR) which the House passed this evening to continue funding the government through December 11, 2014. Included in that funding was language that extended the operating authority of the Export-Import Bank through the middle of next year. As a critical resource for many Washington companies, from our manufacturers to our wineries, this will give us time to come together and develop a long term plan that will ensure the continued success of Washington businesses, farmers and workers.”
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement in response to the President's speech last night: “Last night we heard President Obama’s strategy to ‘degrade and ultimately defeat’ the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). His strategy incorporates a broad, multi-national coalition, which I applaud. Every citizen of the world should be concerned about the threat posed by ISIL. We have seen cases of men and women from all over the globe leave home to join their ranks. This radicalism cannot be tolerated; the president is right: we cannot allow terrorists safe havens. The objectives laid out by President Obama are a start, but we must also be prepared to continually assess and evaluate a clear strategy to eliminate the extremism taught and acted out by ISIL. I will work diligently with my colleagues to ensure that the President's words lead to action and that an open dialogue continues on how best to defeat this enemy. It is time for America and this Administration to lead and to take decisive, powerful action to eliminate the threat of ISIL.”
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement on the anniversary of the 9/11 and Benghazi terrorist attacks: “Today is a day of tragedy in our nation’s history. We remember not only the horrific and devastating September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and a now infamous field in Pennsylvania, but also the unthinkable actions that took the lives of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, and Americans Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, and Glen Doherty in Benghazi, Libya in 2012. This day serves as a reminder of those we have lost, innocent men and women who died as heroes and the brave men and women who make daily sacrifices to protect America from further harm. It is a reminder to treasure our loved ones and the freedoms we hold dear. We have seen a new world since September 11, 2001, and the attack on our embassy in Benghazi two years ago was a stark reminder of that changed landscape. The Middle East remains in turmoil and our national security is still heightened. As we meet new threats and new challenges, we must continue to defend the principles and the ideals of this great nation. I stand with each and every one of you today, shoulder to shoulder, dedicated to keeping America safe and working to keep it strong. We will always remember.”
09.05.2014	Issaquah, WA – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) spoke at the renaming of the Eatonville Post Office in honor of Park Ranger Margaret Anderson. The post office was renamed after legislation Reichert introduced, H.R. 1036, was signed into law earlier this year. Park Ranger Anderson’s heroic actions were remembered during a ceremony that included the unveiling of a plaque officially designating the Eatonville Post Office as a memorial in her honor. Upon this recognition, Reichert said, “I have lost friends and partners in the line of duty. I know just how difficult that loss is. I know that you never forget. Eatonville will never forget Margaret Anderson. Her family will never forget. With the renaming of Eatonville Post Office, we erect a permanent memorial in her honor, giving this community a visible, tangible reminder of her heroic actions and all of those who have committed their lives to serving others, and this community in particular. It was an honor to be able to introduce the legislation that made this possible, and it was an honor to be here today to celebrate Margaret Anderson’s life and memory.” Ranger Anderson was killed in the line of duty on January 1, 2012 while establishing a roadblock within Mt. Rainier National Park. Her actions prevented an armed suspect from venturing further into the park and endangering more lives. She made the ultimate sacrifice protecting others.
08.25.2014	Issaquah, WA – On August 22nd, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) sent a letter to Colonel Robert Wittig, U.S. Army Environmental Command, to urge him to consider the impact that a Reduction in Force (RIF) might have on Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM). A RIF is planned for JBLM no later than January 15, 2015 which could result in income losses for the communities and businesses that JBLM troops support. In the letter Reichert states, “As the representative of Washington’s Eighth Congressional District, I ask that you look at all of the facts and make a decision that is in the best interest of the security of our nation, the operation of JBLM, and the surrounding local communities. Thank you for your fair and thorough consideration of the SPEA for the 2020 Force Structure Realignment. I have faith that the Army will come to the right decision while keeping the security of our nation at the forefront.” The full text of the letter is below. August 22, 2014 Col. Robert Wittig U.S. Army Environmental Command ATTN: SPEA Public Comments 2450 Connell Road (Building 2264) Joint Base San Antonio-Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234-7664 Dear Col. Wittig, Thank you for serving and all who serve this country. I certainly understand your commitment to doing what is best for our great nation and the men and women who serve. Therefore, as the Army continues to deliberate the SPEA (Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Assessment) review for the Army’s 2020 Force Structure Realignment, I respectfully wish to reemphasize the potential impacts to the community that a Reduction in Force (RIF) might have on Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM). With the Department of the Army planning to conduct a RIF at JBLM no later than January 15, 2015, which may result in the involuntary separation of 102 permanent employees, it is important to review all of the facts before making a decision that will have an impact on the surrounding communities of JBLM. The local community has forged a bond with the over 30,000 soldiers living outside of the base and the local economy has become dependent on this bond. Throughout the public comment period, I have heard concerns from community leaders. According to the Pierce County Council and multiple businesses in the area, a reduction of 16,000 troops at JBLM would result in a total income loss of over $1 billion. Other concerns include the Department of the Army’s underestimated impacts on local revenue, unemployment rates, and housing market in the area. As the representative of Washington’s Eighth Congressional District, I ask that you look at all of the facts and make a decision that is in the best interest of the security of our nation, the operation of JBLM, and the surrounding local communities. Thank you for your fair and thorough consideration of the SPEA for the 2020 Force Structure Realignment. I have faith that the Army will come to the right decision while keeping the security of our nation at the forefront. Please do not hesitate to contact Zack Guill in my district office at (425) 677-7414 if you need additional information. Sincerely, Dave Reichert Member of Congress CC: The Honorable John McHugh, Secretary U.S. Army
08.12.2014	Issaquah, WA – After learning that the Washington State request for Individual Assistance, as well as Public Assistance for Chelan County, through a Major Disaster Declaration was denied, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “I fully support Governor Inslee’s decision to appeal this ruling from the federal government. Not only is this one of the worst wildfire seasons Washington has seen in many, many years, but we have seen individuals and families lose absolutely everything. The state is doing what it can to help provide assistance but they can’t do it alone. I am working with my colleagues, FEMA, and the Governor’s office to get the federal help we need to ensure people can access basic necessities and provide for themselves and their families as they rebuild their lives. I urge the federal government to address these needs and seriously consider the Governor’s appeal.” Wildfires in Washington State have destroyed more than 300 homes across four different counties and have seriously affected local economies, particularly as this comes in the middle of the busiest tourism season for Central Washington, in addition to the destruction of private property.
08.04.2014	Issaquah, WA - Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) visited fire-affected areas in Central Washington including the Red Cross operation at Chelan High School as well as Entiat, Leavenworth, and Ellensburg. “After meeting so many chiefs and command crews and Red Cross workers today, I am prouder than ever of the work being done by our first responders and volunteers,” said Reichert. “They have done so much and continue to do so much to ensure that our communities are safe and, if all else fails, that people are removed from harm’s way and provided for. I cannot remember a fire season quite like this one; so many have lost homes or property and watched years of work go up in flames. I hope and pray that the remaining fires, such as those threatening Ellensburg and Vantage, are quickly contained, and I will continue to fight in Congress for our fire fighters to have the proper tools and resources to combat this natural enemy.” Reichert is chair of the bipartisan Congressional Fire Services Caucus.
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, a markup was held by the Natural Resources Committee on legislation from Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and cosponsored by Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA): the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 361); it was passed favorably out of committee. This legislation would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “Protecting this area for recreation and tourism opportunities is one of my highest priorities and I am pleased to see the Natural Resources Committee take this step to moving the Alpine Lakes legislation closer to law,” said Reichert. “Since this issue was first brought to my attention in 2006, I have refused to give up on working to ensure that the Alpine Lakes area receives the recognition and protection it deserves. Not only is this area an elegant, natural gem of both the state and the nation, it supports local economies and creates jobs. I want our children and grandchildren to enjoy everything Washington State has to offer, and the Alpine Lakes Wilderness is one the best and most beautiful legacies we can leave them.” “With today’s passage of the Alpine Lakes Wilderness expansion bill out of the House Natural Resources Committee, we are one step closer to protecting one of the most popular wilderness destinations in the country,” said DelBene. “While I am concerned with some of the changes made to the bill today, this will not be the final version that the president signs into law. Expanding the Alpine Lakes is crucial in supporting outdoor recreation, which generates $22.5 billion in consumer spending each year and is responsible for 227,000 jobs in our state. A short drive from downtown Seattle, countless residents and tourists visit the Alpine Lakes to camp, fish, hunt, hike and enjoy some of the most spectacular views that Washington has to offer.” Tom Uniack, Conservation Director for Washington Wild was pleased to see the bill pass out of committee, and recognized the work already done and what remains to be accomplished. "We are happy to see that this important bill passed the House Committee for the first time in four years under the sustained leadership of Congressman Reichert. However, the proposed deletion of low-elevation mature forests along the Pratt Connector Trail is a great concern. These lands are worthy of wilderness designation." The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. Key elements of the Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these 21,000 acres of public land into wilderness has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) testified before the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation on his bill H.R. 1785, the Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area Act. Reichert said, “The Mountains to Sound Greenway is already a cultural and historical icon in Washington State. Passage of this legislation would recognize that fact and help the communities around it thrive economically. It would also offer further tourism and recreational opportunities to hundreds of thousands of people from not just the state, but around the nation and the world. I urge my colleagues to support the legislation and am grateful for the support of the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and advocates such as Senator Slade Gorton who testified alongside me today.” Background Twenty years of innovative conservation and collaborative solutions protect the natural heritage of the Greenway. This network of parks, forests, farms, and cities is part of a regional history and a legacy for future generations. The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area will be a fitting recognition of this regional identity in the Pacific Northwest, and serve as a model of sustainability and cooperative solutions for the nation. A National Heritage Area is a large, lived-in area designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a landscape of national distinction. This designation provides a flexible strategy to encourage residents, government agencies, nonprofit groups and private partners to collaboratively plan and implement projects to preserve a landscape, without affecting private property rights.
07.24.2014	Washington, D.C – Last night, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) urged support of H.R. 4980, the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act. The legislation is a bipartisan, bicameral agreement incorporating several pieces of adoption legislation as well as Congressman Reichert’s Preventing Sex Trafficking of Youth in Foster Care legislation. It passed the House unanimously and is a critical step forward to helping America’s youth in foster care find permanent, loving homes; lead happy successful lives; and stay off the streets and escape the horrors of sex trafficking. For Congressman Reichert, this is a deeply personal issue that he witnessed himself during his 33 years in law enforcement and particularly while working the Green River serial murder case in Washington State. He said, “We have a responsibility to take care of these children. For far too long we have not kept our promise to keep our foster kids safe. Passing this legislation will do much to fix that failure and I look forward to seeing it on the president’s desk very soon.” To see Congressman’s Reichert’s full floor statement click here and for more information on H.R. 4980 click here.
07.23.2014	Washington, D.C. – This morning, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) joined a bipartisan group of House and Senate colleagues to recognize the 50th anniversary of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). At the event, the LWCF Coalition released a new report examining the successes made possible by the LWCF and made policy recommendations to preserve the fund in the coming years. A long-time champion of the LWCF, Congressman Reichert said, “For the last 50 years, the LWCF has played a pivotal role in preserving America’s national treasures for future generations. In Washington alone, it has helped to conserve the natural beauty of the Pacific Crest Trail, Mt. Rainier National Park, Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area, and the Columbia River Gorge. These are places that attract visitors from across the country, and even from other parts of the globe. I look forward to working with my colleagues to sustain the LWCF and put it to good use in the next 50 years.” The LWCF was authorized by the House of Representatives on July 23, 1964 and became law on September 3 of the same year. It is the only federal program that is solely dedicated to conserving and protecting national parks, forests, wildlife refuges, civil war battlefields, and the creation and development of state and local parks. The fund does not use taxpayer dollars, instead it is funded through revenues from offshore oil and gas royalty payments. The types of projects supported by the fund in turn support over 227,000 jobs in the Washington. To read the full anniversary report, titled “50 Years of Conserving America the Beautiful”, visit LWCFcoaltion.org.
07.20.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement regarding the ongoing wildfire situation in Washington State: "My thoughts and prayers are with all the first responders and firefighters who are battling one of the worst fire seasons Washington State has seen and with the families that have lost or are in danger of losing their homes. We have not seen this kind of devastation in many years and we must now come together as a community to help our friends and neighbors. "I thank those already risking so much battling these fires and helping others move to safety. I also thank those who are giving up their time to help feed and care for those who have been evacuated. They can’t do it alone and need all of our help and support. "I pray for the safety of all, for the first responders and firefighters, for the victims of the fire, for improved weather conditions and a quick end to the fires."
06.19.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) attended the biannual meeting of the President’s Export Council (PEC) this morning with cabinet members, state officials and business leaders to discuss with President Barack Obama the importance of our current trade negotiations, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), and Trade in Services Agreement (TiSA), as well as the need to renew Trade Promotion Authority. “Today, I join in urging the President to engage and push for passage of TPA,” said Reichert. “We already have legislation to renew and update TPA, and we should be working to build even greater support and momentum for its immediate passage. Every one of us in this room wants to secure the best deals possible in our current trade negotiations and bring them home; passage of this legislation is how we accomplish this. It is also how we reaffirm an important partnership between Members of Congress and the Administration.” BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC in May 2010: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. He recently helped form the Friends of TPP Caucus to provide opportunities for bipartisan dialogue on the importance of this agreement, furthering understanding of what it could mean for different regions of the country and sectors of our economy.
06.19.2014	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) was joined today by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Leonard Lance (NJ-07) and Henry Waxman (CA-33) in announcing the creation of the Congressional Caucus on the Deadliest Cancers. The Caucus will raise awareness about the deadliest forms of cancers and advocate for research and other measures to increase survival. Lung, pancreatic and liver cancers are all considered “deadly cancers” with five-year survival rates below 50%. The Caucus will give patients and survivors a support network of lawmakers and health care professionals dedicated to working collaboratively on federal initiatives. The bipartisan lawmakers joined the Deadliest Cancer Coalition earlier this afternoon, where a panel discussed efforts to minimize cancer’s toll by improving prevention, early detection, and treatment options for these cancers. Reichert said, “Launching the Congressional Caucus on Deadliest Cancers is extremely important to raise awareness about cancers with the lowest survival rate. After watching my own mother lose her battle with Pancreatic Cancer, I understand all too well how critical it is that we support research for new medicines and treatments for these diseases, and perhaps, one day, we will discover the cure.” Lance, a member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, said “The Congressional Caucus on the Deadliest Cancers will give advocates and those working for cures a forum to discuss one of the great public health challenges of our time, the rise of deadly cancers. Cancer is a diagnosis no person wants to hear and a battle no one should face alone. From those in treatment to those working towards prevention, to friends and family dealing with the terrible illness of a loved one, everyone knows someone who has been afflicted with cancer. Cancer has been the great health menace of the last century and this Caucus will be another avenue to build bridges into the patient, support and research communities.” “For the 400,000 Americans diagnosed with a deadly cancer every year, Congress is coming to their aid,” said Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which oversees a number of federal health agencies. “With the launch of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Deadliest Cancers, patients, survivors, advocates, Members of Congress and their staff will have a dedicated forum to aid in the advancement of policy that combats the lingering prevalence of deadly cancers. Nearly half of all cancer deaths in the U.S. are attributable to one of the deadliest cancers, and it’s imperative that we take every step we can to reverse this tragic statistic.” “The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network has long advocated for increased federal support in an effort to improve patient outcomes. With the leading causes of cancer deaths expected to change dramatically in the United States by 2030, the time is now to ensure we are focused on those cancers that will soon take a greater toll on the nation’s health, including pancreatic, lung and liver. We applaud Representatives Lance, Eshoo, Reichert and Waxman for their leadership in starting the Congressional Caucus on Deadliest Cancers, and look forward to partnering with them as we work to improve the survival rates for the nation’s deadliest cancer,” said Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. A recent Pancreatic Cancer Action Network report predicts that the Nation’s leading causes of cancer-related death will change dramatically by 2030. While lung cancer will remain at the top of the list for years to come, pancreatic and liver cancer will replace breast and colorectal cancer as the second and third leading cancer killers.
06.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen and Ways and Means Members Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI), along with six other original cosponsors, introduced H.R. 4837, a bill to encourage the creation of employee-owned businesses through S Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plans (S ESOPs). S ESOPs are a proven tool for building strong, employee owned businesses and providing for sound retirement security for those employees. “This legislation gives employees ownership over their work and their retirement,” said Reichert. “It is important that our nation’s workers feel confident that a financially secure future awaits them and there is no better way to do that than allow them a stake in their companies and provide meaningful retirement accounts. Giving them this confidence can only help our economy, incentivizing workers and leading to economic grown and job creation.” “This bill empowers companies to become employee-owned, create new employee-owners, and provide retirement security to more American workers,” said Kind. “Growing our economy and adding jobs is a priority and employee-ownership is a proven model to do just that.” H.R. 4837 includes provisions to encourage owners of S Corporations to sell their stock to an ESOP, exand financing opportunities for S Corporation ESOPs, provide technical assistance for companies that may be interested in forming an S Corporation ESOP, and ensure that small businesses that become ESOPs retain their Small Business Administration certification. Reps. Reichert and Kind are supported in their efforts by original cosponsors Reps. Paulsen (R-MN), Blumenauer (D-OR), Tiberi (R-OH), Neal (D-MA), Boustany (R-LA), and Pascrell (D-NJ).
06.05.2014	Issaquah, WA – This afternoon, Rep. Reichert held a reception honoring the young men and women who received appointments to one of the U.S. service academies. Receiving an appointment is not a simple task and they must meet strict requirements to receive even a nomination, let alone an appointment. Students are required to have excellent grades, clear leadership skills, and a heart for service. “The young men and women who received appointments to service academies from this district are some of the best and brightest young people I have ever met,” said Reichert. “I am encouraged by their desire to serve at the highest level and their willingness to answer the call of duty, knowing they could one day be called upon to make enormous sacrifices. So many of these students are accepted into other top universities, and instead choose the harder route to attend a service academy. I wish them the very best as they start their schooling and their likely careers this fall, and I know that I will see great things from them.” The students who received appointments to a service academy from the Washington-8th District are: United States Air Force Academy Todd Link, Maple Valley Hayden Schmitt, Enumclaw Lillian Lord, Spanaway Tristan Naranjo, Auburn United States Merchant Marine Academy Shaun Meehan, Auburn United States Military Academy Brenton Ausen, Covington Paige Dougherty, Graham Kevin Hall, Renton United States Naval Academy Andrew Wisegarver, Sammamish
05.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed an amendment introduced by U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), co-chairs of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, along with Reps. King, DeFazio, Grimm, Welch, Reed, Enyart and Johnson. The amendment, which would protect funding for the highly successful Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program and allow the hiring of almost 1000 additional police officers, was included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations Bill for Commerce Justice and Science (CJS). “Our local law enforcement is this nation’s first line of defense,” said Reichert. “When our country is threatened, they are first on the scene and the first to offer protection. We cannot leave them ill prepared or ill equipped, and the COPS program makes sure that they have the funding and personnel to adequately address all safety concerns. Ensuring adequate funding for them is but a simple way to say thank you to the men and women who serve to protect us every day and to support them in their efforts.” "As local police departments face increasing budget constraints, we need to ensure the safety of our communities does not suffer and our first responders have every resource available to them," said Pascrell. "Despite its importance to our communities, the COPS program has been a frequent target for cuts. This is why I'll continue to fight to ensure this program is well-funded so it can remain a cornerstone of the federal government’s efforts to assist state and local law enforcement." The COPS Office and its corresponding programs provide invaluable resources and technical assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies in an effort to keep our communities safe. Since its inception, the COPS office has placed over 127,000 sworn law enforcement officers in communities across the country by providing grants for the hiring of officers. These grants are critical for communities with public safety needs that may lack the resources to hire the officers they need to protect their citizens. This amendment would restore $110 million to the COPS funding in order to maintain current year's level of funding and avoid a proposed 60% cut.
05.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, after the House passage of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “Washington State is positioned as America’s gateway to the Pacific Rim region. Washington ports not only provide for the export of goods from, and import of goods into, the state, but the overwhelming majority of these goods make their way to other parts of the country. Not only that, but our success in a global economy also depends on good, reliable infrastructure that leads to more jobs and efficient movement of goods. The legislation we passed today helps us do that by recognizing the needs of ports like the Port of Seattle and Port of Tacoma through expanded uses of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, it works to protect the Columbia Basin from invasive species and allows the Army Corps to accept funding from non-Federal entities to allow greater efficiency in completing their projects. With steps like these and the many other benefits gained by this bill, Washington State will only see further economic growth and success.”
05.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – On Friday, U.S. Congressmen and Ways and Means members Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced legislation, H.R. 4634, to reform tax law so that federal law enforcement officers and firefighters can access their retirement accounts without penalty when they are eligible to retire. Generally, under current law, a 10% penalty is added on top of normal tax amounts taken out of retirement accounts before the age of 59½. In 2006, Congress recognized that state and local public safety officials should be able to access their accounts without penalty at age 50 due to the fact that many of these officials are eligible to retire at earlier ages due to the unique and hazardous nature of the work they perform. Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell’s bill would simply extend this benefit to federal law enforcement and firefighters, who are eligible to retire after 20 years of service at age 50. “Public safety personnel constantly put their lives on the line in the course of serving their communities. These men and women are heroes who run towards danger instead of away from it,” said Reichert. “Their duties are extremely strenuous and can take such a toll that they are eligible to retire earlier than others. There is no reason that federal public safe officials must wait, in some cases, 9 ½ years to access the full retirement benefits they have earned and are entitled to. This is a straightforward measure to make an obvious fix to our tax code and treat our public safety officials with the respect they deserve.” "This legislation offers a commonsense fix that allows our brave federal law enforcement officers and firefighters to access their retirement savings when they retire, without penalty," said Pascrell. "By leveling the playing field for all public safety professionals, we are also recognizing their selfless commitment to the protection of our communities." “Federal fire fighters deserve to access their TSP funds without penalty upon retirement. I am pleased to support Representatives Reichert and Pascrell in correcting this inequity, providing federal fire fighters with a benefit already enjoyed by their municipal brothers and sisters,” said General President of the International Association of Fire Fighters Harold A. Schaitberger Jon Adler, National President of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, added, “I would like to thank Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell for recognizing the sacrifice and service of federal law enforcement officers, and for introducing this important legislation that would allow officers to access their money justifiably and without penalty.
05.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) has been named to House Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s House Trafficking Task Force to address the problem of human trafficking. Reichert comes from a long, experienced background of dealing first-hand with this issue. He spent 33 years in law enforcement, including 7 years as Sheriff of King County, Washington. During that time, he played a lead role in solving the Green River Killer serial murder case. This tragic, decades-long hunt for a man preying on young girls and women who had turned to prostitution showed Reichert in ways nothing else could how the current system has failed to help those who are vulnerable to becoming trapped in the horrors of sex trafficking. Because of this, Reichert has devoted himself to making serious strides to eradicate this underground human marketplace. At the beginning of the 113th Congress, Reichert was selected as the Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources which has oversight over our nation’s foster care system. Tragically, a large number of sex trafficking victims come from this system. Of the children reported missing to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children who were also identified as likely sex trafficking victims, 60 percent were in foster care or group homes before running away. After holding a series of hearings and receiving extensive public input from experts and former victims on ways to strengthen our current system, Reichert introduced H.R. 4058, the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act to address this problem head on. The bill would require states to identify child victims of sex trafficking and put in place a plan to help them. This legislation passed out of the Ways and Means Committee with unanimous support on April 29, 2014. On being appointed to the taskforce, Reichert said, “Our job is to protect people. That is what I have dedicated my life to and I thank Leader Cantor for inviting me to join in this extremely critical effort to combat sex trafficking and all its associated horrors. The fact that many of these young victims have been in foster care and were not protected from these dangers is immensely disturbing. It is time to correct that failure and protect our nation’s youth and the other victims of these atrocities.” Majority Leader Cantor said, “Congressman Dave Reichert is an excellent addition to the House Trafficking Task Force. He brings years of experience and a unique perspective that will be critical in the fight to end the terrible epidemic of human trafficking.”
05.07.2014	Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Jim McDermott (D-WA) have introduced The Personal Holding Company (PHC) Tax Parity and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 4589) in the House of Representatives. This legislation would reform the Personal Holding Company rules, which were first enacted under the Revenue Act of 1934, and would promote economic growth while simultaneously raising revenue. “This is another common sense measure to keep our businesses on track – to grow the economy and create jobs – allowing them to meet the demands of the global business market head on and bring back cash trapped overseas by an outdated tax law,” said Reichert. “I thank my Washington State colleague, Mr. McDermott for joining me in introducing this important legislation.” “This bill is a bi-partisan effort by two Senior Washington State members of the House’s tax writing committee, forged on common ground and designed with the purpose of continuing America’s economic recovery by creating jobs,” said Congressman McDermott. H.R. 4589 would exclude Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) dividends from the definition of PHC income. By doing this, the tax code would be updated in such a way that supports economic growth and increased commerce.
05.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-8) introduced H.R. 4567, along with his House Ways and Means colleague Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), to eliminate tax rules that are preventing thousands of local government employees from passing on their hard-earned health reimbursement account savings to their loved ones once they pass away. “Under current law, local government employees are denied the ability to pass on the benefits earned over years of service to the beneficiaries of their choice – a right that was given to state workers in 2008,” said Reichert. “We must make it possible for public employees, school teachers, and utility district workers, among others, to pass on medical reimbursements they have worked all their lives earning. Fortunately, this is a simple, technical fix and I am glad that Congressman Blumenauer has partnered with me to take this common sense step which will help thousands of people, including over 55,000 in the Pacific Northwest.” “It is always unfair when technicalities or loopholes harm workers and penalize them based on arbitrary government distinctions, so I’m pleased to be working with Congressman Reichert to fix it,” said Blumenauer. “This bill will improve health and benefits for Oregonians and people across the country, and should be enacted as soon as possible.” “The introduction of this important bill will ensure that we are able to recruit and retain the best employees available by offering them health care benefits that match the private sector,” said Steve Pfaff, Commissioner of the Soos Creek Water and Sewer District serving almost 100,000 people in southeast King County. “Some of Soos Creek’s employees have worked hard to build up substantial VEBA accounts to pay for their health care and those of their families, as had been permitted when they entered the program. Revenue Ruling 2006-36 changed the game and disallowed a practice that had taken place for almost 20 years. This legislation would eliminate that inequity.” Douglas County PUD General Manager Bill Dobbins added, “We are very thankful this bill is being introduced. It proposes a much-needed change for local government employees who for years have set money aside in their VEBA accounts. These prudent savers deserve options in designating beneficiaries so the earnings they have accumulated during their years of service are rightfully retained by their families. With the appropriate options available for designating beneficiaries, employers and employees will likely continue to participate in this important savings program.” This legislation was first introduced by Congressmen Reichert and Blumenauer in 2011. A 2006 IRS ruling imposes rules on health reimbursement arrangements which cause participants in these plans to lose earned benefits if they die without a spouse or dependent. In 2008, Congress passed the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 7327) that addressed this situation for certain HRA plans (those created in conjunction with public retirement systems), but not all. This bill provides a technical fix to include plans established by or on behalf of a state or political subdivision. Supporters of the legislation include the Association of Washington Cities, the Public Power Council, Washington Public Ports Association, Washington Association of Sewer and Water Districts, the Washington Association of School Business Officials, the Washington PUD association, Association of Washington School Principals, the Public Generating Pool, the Washington Fire Commissioners Association, and the Washington State School Directors’ Association.
05.02.2014	Issaquah, WA – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert is pleased to announce the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Chelsie Conroy, a student at Bonney Lake High School, won the 8th District competition for her painting titled “Fles”. Her work was chosen at a reception held tonight at the Green River Community College. “I am pleased every year to see so many students participate in this competition,” said Reichert. “Their talent blows me away each and every time and I don’t know how our panel of judges is able to come to a decision. I thank them for their efforts and I am proud to congratulate Chelsie today and bring her artwork back with me to Washington, D.C.” Second and third place went to Christian Saez from Tahoma Senior High School and Gerda Szoboszlai from Lindbergh High School, respectively. Christian submitted a photograph titled Abandon and Gerda’s piece was a pencil drawing titled Enigma. Chelsie’s winning painting will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol beginning in June for a full calendar year. Background Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation with the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building. It is a competition that encourages students to participate fully in a well-rounded school curriculum and Congressman Reichert, a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, has participated in the program every year since taking office.
04.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee marked-up two different small business bills introduced by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8). The bills, H.R. 4453 and H.R. 4454, are both pieces of tax legislation that deal with small businesses structured as S Corporations. In Washington State alone, small businesses employ 56% of the workforce – or 1.4 million jobs. H.R. 4453 would shorten the built-in gains tax holding period from 10 to 5-years, allowing S Corporations easier access to their capital. H.R. 4454 ensures that S Corporations are able to fully benefit from the value of their donations to charity. Both bills have considerable support, including from the Associated General Contractors of America, the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, the National Federation of Independent Business, the S Corporation Association, and others. “This tax legislation would provide small businesses with much-needed relief from unnecessary tax burdens and allow them to get back to the business of creating jobs,” said Reichert. “Creating jobs is the one sure way to grow our economy and get it back on track. I am encouraged that these passed out of committee today, and I hope that they will move quickly to the House floor.” “S Corporations are in every community and every industry,” said Brian Reardon, Executive Director of the S Corporation Association. “Yet these job creators are saddled with rules that date back more than half a century. The provisions in the Reichert-Kind bills will unlock capital for thousands of businesses and encourage S Corporations to make charitable contributions. We strongly support their efforts to make this important relief permanent.” To read a letter of support from the Main Street business community, click here.
04.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee held a mark-up on seven different bills. Among those bills was H.R. 4058, the Preventing Sex Trafficking of Youth in Foster Care Act introduced by U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), which passed unanimously out of committee. The Preventing Sex Trafficking of Youth in Foster Care Act is bipartisan legislation that would ensure States are taking the proper steps to keep foster youth safe, help them lead happy, normal lives and stay off the streets to prevent them from becoming victims of sex trafficking. It would also help identify victims and the services they need to get them out of their situation and successfully rehabilitated into society. According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, 59% of juvenile suspected sex trafficking victims were in foster care or group homes before they ran away. This bill takes important steps to change these troubling statistics and prevent youth victimization. “It is our duty to keep America’s youth safe, especially those directly in our care,” said Reichert. “I am pleased to see the overwhelming support this bill is receiving from both sides of the aisle and I look forward to seeing it on the House floor soon. We cannot let any more time pass when it comes to eliminating the horrific crime of sex trafficking.” The bill has broad support from groups dedicated to ending sex trafficking, including Rights4Girls, who wrote the Ways and Means Committee saying, “This legislation represents tremendous progress both in terms of our growing understanding of the prevalence and dynamics of domestic child sex trafficking and our efforts to address it. The steps proposed in the Act would help identify and connect child victims of sex trafficking and those at-risk with vital services and support at a much earlier stage… As a human rights organization dedicated to improving the lives of vulnerable young women and girls in the U.S., we urge Congress to pass this critical piece of legislation.” Other supporters of the bill include the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the American Public Human Services Association, the Foster Family-based Treatment Association, Love 146, and the National Children’s Alliance.
04.15.2014	Issaquah, WA – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) presented Renton native David Brighton with the Congressional Award Bronze medal at a ceremony in his Issaquah district office. The Congressional Award is an ongoing program for students and young people, ages 14 to 23, encouraging them to grow in several areas: personal development, physical fitness, expedition/exploration, and volunteer service. There are three levels of achievement signified by the gold, silver, and bronze medals. Many students work to achieve all three. David achieved his bronze medal by completing over 100 hours of volunteer service with the Washington State Science and Engineering Fair across the state as well as by volunteering to help with children at Tall Timbers Camp. For personal development, David improved his technical skills working part-time at Golden Pacific Embossing. In the area of physical fitness, David increased his endurance through hiking and running as well as strength exercises. For his expedition, David spent time camping in the San Juan Islands, visiting four different islands and learning about the history of each one while there. “It is always encouraging to see young people work hard to make themselves the best they can be,” said Reichert. “It was an honor to present David with this award today. It is never too early to get involved and serve our communities, and I hope other young people will make similar efforts to serve others and strive for excellence.” For more information on the Congressional Award, click here.
04.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced H.R. 4453 and 4454 to make permanent two temporary S Corporation tax provisions from legislation introduced earlier this Congress that were also included in the 2014 comprehensive tax reform discussion draft. Reichert said, “These are common sense reforms of our current tax code that would help proven job creators – S Corporations – to access the capital they need to grow, compete nationally and globally, and get Americans back to work. I am proud to introduce these bipartisan bills with my colleague Congressman Kind, and I look forward to continuing work towards comprehensive tax reform. Hard working Americans should be able to use the money they earn to provide for their families and enjoy the benefits of their labor, not give it away to their government because of an outdated and overly-burdensome tax code.” “With nearly 60,000 S Corporations in Wisconsin, supporting these job creators is a key priority of mine as I work to strengthen the economy in Wisconsin and across the country,” said Kind. “These bills bring stability, simplicity and fairness to the tax code so S Corporations can continue to provide good jobs and help sustain local communities.” “S Corporations are in every community and every industry,” observed Brian Reardon, Executive Director of the S Corporation Association. “Yet these job creators are saddled with rules that date back more than half a century. The provisions in the Reichert-Kind bill will unlock capital for thousands of businesses and encourage S Corporations to make charitable contributions. We strongly support their efforts to make this important relief permanent.” Background: The first piece of legislation, H.R. 4454, would make permanent the pre-2014 basis-adjustment rule for S Corporations that make charitable contributions of property, ensuring consistent treatment of charitable contributions between S Corporation shareholders and partners in a partnership. The second piece of legislation, H.R. 4453, would make permanent a reduction of the recognition period for the built-in gains tax on S Corporation appreciated property from ten years to five years. Both of these provisions would be effective for tax years beginning after 2013. The provisions were part of H.R. 892, the S Corporation Modernization Act, which Congressmen Reichert and Kind introduced in February of 2013. This legislation was introduced to reform current, outdated tax law which stifles growth. As a 2011 study revealed, S corporations have a major economic impact on Main Streets across the country – employing more than 31 million Americans or one in four workers in the private sector.
04.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – After today’s Ways and Means Committee vote to send the Department of Justice a letter of referral concerning possible criminal charges against former IRS Exempt Organizations Division Director Lois Lerner, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “The Ways and Means investigation of the IRS targeting scandal has uncovered information that strongly suggests that Lois Lerner 1, used her position to improperly influence agency action against conservative organizations; 2, impeded official investigations by providing misleading statements to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration; and 3, risked exposing, and may actually have exposed, confidential taxpayer information. “Today, the Committee voted to provide this information to the Department of Justice to consider possible criminal violations committed by Ms. Lerner. This action was taken to ensure that the constitutional rights of all Americans are protected. They deserve answers, and they deserve to know how and why this happened. “DOJ should review this information closely, remembering their duty to the American people, the constitution, and to justice.”
04.02.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after the release of the Pathway to Prosperity 2015 Republican Budget: “The American people know that it is long past time that our government focused on responsible spending and that is what the Republican Budget offers. Hardworking Americans deserve to know their tax dollars will be used sensibly and fairly, and that can only be guaranteed if we commit to cutting waste, creating jobs, and balancing our budget. The Republican budget does that. It would cut $5.1 trillion in spending and balance the budget by 2024, finally ending the practice of spending money we don’t have. This budget offers Americans both financial freedom and financial security, and I applaud Chairman Ryan for putting out ideas to get our country back on the right track.”
03.31.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after learning of Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp’s announcement that he will not be seeking reelection in November: “Dave Camp has been an outstanding chairman and a trusted friend. I have nothing but respect for him, and I will be sorry to see him go, as I know will his constituents, who he has served so faithfully. Chairman Camp will leave behind a legacy of putting hardworking Americans, job creation, and economic success first. I wish him all the best in his future endeavors.”
03.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) sent a letter to AARP CEO A. Barry Rand asking about the effects of Obamacare on its members and what they are doing to stop implementation of further Medicare cuts proposed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). If AARP plans to support those cuts or is taking no action to prevent them, American seniors could be in serious trouble. The 2010 healthcare law includes over $300 billion in cuts to Medicare Advantage (MA), which threatens the healthcare of over 15 million seniors enrolled in MA plans, including over 300,000 in Washington State. Despite the deep cuts to seniors’ healthcare to pay for Obamacare, AARP actively and aggressively lobbied members of Congress to support passage of the law. In 2011, Reichert co-authored the Behind the Veil: The AARP America doesn’t know report which revealed the conflict between AARP’s profit-driven business model and its ability to promote the best interests of America’s seniors. The report revealed the healthcare law’s cuts to MA could result in a windfall for AARP that exceeds over $1 billion during the next ten years. This is because AARP will see their royalty payments increase as seniors are forced out of MA plans and buy AARP Medigap plans instead. The report called into question AARP’s tax exempt status as a result of this obvious conflict of interest. Now, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have proposed further cuts to MA beyond those included in Obamacare. According to analysts, if the cuts CMS is proposing are enacted they will result in a 5.9% cut to MA payments in 2015. AARP must be held accountable to their members, and their members deserve to know whether or not AARP is supportive of these extensive cuts that will seriously jeopardize seniors’ access to their existing doctors and MA plans but which could lead to further profit for AARP through increased sales of Medigap policies. “These cuts to Medicare Advantage jeopardize the well-being of American senior citizens,” said Reichert. “Higher co-pays and premiums, reduced benefits, and fewer choices are not how seniors want to spend their golden years. After decades of hard work, they should be able to enjoy this period of their lives and not have to fear losing the healthcare they like and the doctors they trust. It is my worry that AARP has unnecessarily put that security at risk by their support of the president’s healthcare law, and seniors deserve to know that AARP is in fact fighting for them instead of fighting for their own financial gain.” Considering the financial gains AARP is expected to reap from their support of the President’s healthcare law despite its adverse effects on seniors, Reichert has been working to make sure that the tax code does not provide an incentive for AARP to support such harmful cuts. Just this past February, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp released a comprehensive tax reform discussion draft, including language, as suggested by Rep. Reichert in the Behind the Veil report, to ensure organizations like AARP pay taxes on for-profit business activities unrelated to their stated service-oriented missions. Under the discussion draft, the royalty revenues AARP receives from insurance companies would be properly treated as taxable income from a trade or business activity. Reichert asks AARP to provide him with information regarding the number of members who saw increased MA plan premiums, how many lost their plans altogether as a result of Obamacare, and how many have since enrolled in an AARP Medigap plan. He also specifically asks if AARP supports the cuts proposed by CMS and how AARP plans to protect members’ access to their existing MA plans and doctors. To read the full text of the letter, click here.
03.24.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert spoke in support of legislation to rename the post office at 103 Center Street West in Eatonville, WA in memory of National Park Ranger Margaret Anderson. The legislation, H.R. 1036, passed the House unanimously. Ranger Anderson was shot and killed in the line of duty on January 1, 2012, while establishing a roadblock within Washington’s Mount Rainier National Park. Her swift actions prevented the suspect from venturing further into the park to a popular tourist destination. She made the ultimate sacrifice to ensure the safety of her colleagues and her community. “I know what it is to lose friends and partners in the line of duty,” said Reichert. “It is something you never forget. Eatonville will never forget the loss of Ranger Anderson. Her family will never forget. This post office can now be a memorial to Margaret Anderson’s life, service and bravery. It’s a small thing that we can do to honor her and all of those who put their lives on the line for others each and every day.” Margaret Anderson was a loving wife and mother of two young daughters. Aside from being a dedicated Park Ranger, she was trained in Emergency Medical Services and volunteered with the Eatonville Fire Department. She is remembered by co-workers as a devoted professional who was highly respected and eager to serve. To watch, Rep. Reichert’s full floor speech, click here.
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – After this morning’s House passage of legislation to permanently repeal the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula used to determine Medicare physician reimbursement (H.R. 4015), U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement: “Today’s vote was critical for America’s seniors and their doctors. Without a permanent repeal of the SGR, seniors are in perpetual danger of losing access to their doctors. In just a little over two weeks’ time, Medicare physicians could experience a nearly 24 percent cut to their reimbursement which could lead some providers to drop out of the Medicare program or stop accepting new Medicare patients. H.R. 4015 would keep that from happening now and in the future – offering seniors stability and providing certainty to doctors for the first time since 1997. It is important that we take this step to strengthen and improve the Medicare program. The bill ensures Medicare is focused on the quality of care and senior’s health outcomes, not the number of appointments on their calendar. It is now time for the Senate to act so we can make this legislation law.”
03.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08), Jim Matheson (UT-04), and Gary Miller (CA-31) introduced H.R. 4246, legislation that would provide construction workers, contractors, engineers and architects with qualified immunity when they respond to a declared disaster or emergency.Reichert said, “We never know when disaster could strike, and we are all familiar with just how devastating that can be. But all over America, good Samaritans are often some of the first on the scene. They give their time and resources to help our country and their fellow citizens, providing important support for rescue, recovery, and clean-up efforts. When those construction workers, contractors, architects and engineers step forward to help, they shouldn’t hesitate out of a fear of lawsuits. Our country must stand united in times of crisis, and this bill will allow those who want to help their neighbors to do that.” “In the wake of disasters, volunteers who step forward and want to help shouldn’t have to hesitate out of fear of lawsuits,” said Matheson. “This bill provides important liability protections to volunteer architectural, engineering, and construction professionals who travel to the scene of a disaster to provide emergency services.” “In times of emergency, we need to protect those who volunteer to help,” said Miller. “This common-sense legislation provides the construction, architectural, and engineering industries needed liability protection so they can assist promptly in emergency situations without the fear of being sued.” "This bill will provide contractors with the liability immunity they need to be able to respond without a moment’s hesitation when the call for help comes," added Stephen E. Sandherr, the chief executive officer of the Associated General Contractors of America. "The last thing we should be doing is punishing folks for dropping everything and volunteering to help when their community is in need." BACKGROUND H.R. 4246 would grant construction companies, their employees, architects and engineers immunity from liability for negligence – but would not cover gross negligence or willful misconduct – when providing emergency construction assistance on a voluntary basis in response to a declared emergency or disaster, in good faith, and without expectation of compensation. Furthermore, those protected under this bill would be providing such assistance at the direction of a public official.
03.05.2014	Washington, DC -- After the President's release of his budget proposal earlier this week, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “The President’s budget proposal is not what Americans need from our government. Here’s why. First, the budget exceeds the spending levels agreed to in the Ryan-Murray budget deal reached just two months ago. Second, the budget proposes tax reform for corporations, but leaves out hard-working families and small businesses. Third, the budget does nothing to ensure that the Medicare and Social Security programs we enjoy today will be there for our children or grandchildren. Finally, the budget does not balance – ever. Our government has the responsibility to budget just as the families of the 8th District do every day. We can’t spend more than we take in and we need to make sure that we have enough set aside to pay for future obligations. This is common-sense, and I was disappointed to see that lacking in the President’s budget.”
02.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement on Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s release of a comprehensive tax reform discussion draft: “No one has worked harder to move tax reform forward than Chairman Camp, and I applaud his continued efforts in today releasing a comprehensive tax reform discussion draft. Talking to constituents in my district, it’s clear – families, small businesses, and corporations all agree that our current tax code is unfair, out-of-date, and a strain on family pocketbooks and businesses’ bottom line. The status quo is unacceptable. Comprehensive tax reform will energize the economy by putting more money in the pocket of hard working Americans and businesses and create more jobs. While there are those who will have concerns with the draft, I look forward to working with all of them as the Committee continues its push to make the tax code work for the American people – not the other way around.” Congressman Reichert’s Priorities that were included in Chairman Camp’s draft include: S Corporation Modernization Act, H.R. 892: The S Corporation Modernization Act would modernize the rules that apply to firms that have selected S Corporation status, increase the ability of S Corporations to access needed capital, and ease and expand S Corporations’ ability to make charitable donations. Personal Holding Company Tax Parity and Reinvestment Act, H.R. 6660 (112th Congress): The Personal Holding Company Tax Parity and Reinvestment Act removes an outdated surtax that discourages U.S. companies from bringing home their profits made overseas. HRA-VEBA Equitable Treatment for all Public Sector Employees Act, H.R. 2698 (112th Congress): This provision will preserve an important medical savings and worker retention tool for thousands of public employees, school teachers, utility district workers, and their public sector employees. Language to ensure that organizations like AARP stay true to their mission by making sure they pay tax on for-profit business activities Congressman Reichert was co-author of a 2011 investigative report “Behind the Veil: The AARP America Doesn’t Know”. Among other things, the report found that ostensibly non-profit organizations like AARP were making millions of dollars in royalty revenues from insurance companies. The draft ensures that they now pay tax on those royalties. Preserves special incentives for small exporters: The draft retains Interest Charge Domestic International Sales Corporations, a tax structure that allows small exporters to earn income at capital gains rates.
02.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Last week, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) was joined by his Washington State colleagues Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5), Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-4), and Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3) in sending Washington State Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler a letter to express concerns and request that the Commissioner address the narrowing of networks that has occurred since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. “Since the Washington State exchanges opened, I have heard of many of my constituents who have lost access not just to plans and doctors, but also to entire hospitals, such as Seattle Children’s,” said Reichert. “This is extremely concerning, not just because Americans were promised they could keep their doctors and their plans, but because for many, premier institutions such as Seattle Children’s is a necessary part of caring for their family, offering not just treatment but hope for a better, healthier future.” Hastings said, “It’s been nearly four years since the President signed his signature health care legislation into law and residents in Central Washingtonian are still wondering if and when they will see true health care reforms that increase access and improve their quality of care. With Washington State’s narrowed health networks and with premier facilities such as Seattle Children’s Hospital excluded from most exchange plans, the problem is only exacerbated for Washingtonians living in rural communities where access to health providers remains a struggle and is only getting worse under Obamacare.” Herrera Beutler added, “Washington families are being forced to deal with smaller health care networks as a result of the massive health care law. As a result, they fear they’ll be limited in accessing critical procedures and care. This falls short of the promises made to Americans when the law was passed. If Washington State is going to continue charging forward with the law’s implementation, it must do everything possible to protect individuals’ access to the doctors and hospitals they trust.” To read the text of the letter, click here.
02.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – After the Boeing announcement that production of the 777X wing would remain in Washington State, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement: “I am extremely pleased with the news out of Everett today. Boeing has long been part of the economic foundation of Washington State, employing workers and sustaining jobs. Only a few short months ago, I joined with my colleagues asking that Boeing consider all the advantages of keeping production here, and the 777X wing production is a critical step forward. Producing the 777X wing in Everett will not only create thousands of jobs but will continue Washington State’s legacy as a leader in aeronautics. I will continue to fight to make Washington State a place that is good for business and good for jobs.”
02.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) announced that he will introduce legislation tomorrow to prevent and address sex trafficking of youth in foster care. The announcement came at a press conference in Seattle, WA at Treehouse, a Washington State organization that works with foster youth to ensure they have every opportunity to succeed in life and avoid life on the streets. “This is a problem we must address each and every day,” said Reichert. “It’s not a problem that will go away without constant work against it. I was proud to be joined today by so many people who are a part of that fight to help me announce this legislation. This bill is a big step forward to ensure the safety and protection of our youth in foster care and in the fight against sex trafficking.” Other participants in today’s announcement were Dawn Rains, COO of Treehouse, Executive Director of the Mockingbird Society Jim Theofelis, King County Sheriff John Urquhart, Bobbe Bridge, CEO of the Center for Children and Youth Justice, YouthCare Executive Director Melinda Giovengo, and Mandy Urwiler, a former foster youth who, like the others, is an important advocate for making sure youth in foster care are properly protected and provided for. The Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act would combat sex trafficking in five key ways. It will: 1. Help identify victims of child sex trafficking and ensure states develop plans to help and serve these children 2. Improve the data on this problem and the services provided to them 3. Ensure youth in foster care can live more normal, fulfilling lives that make them less vulnerable to sex trafficking 4. Ensure states do more to move kids quickly out of foster care into loving families if they can't return home 5. Ensure youth in foster care are better prepared for a successful adulthood. To read the full text of the legislation, click here. For a more complete summary of the legislation, click here.
02.13.2014	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement after learning of the retirement of Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-4): “Doc Hastings has committed his life to the people of Washington State for over 30 years. He committed himself to making the nation better for Washingtonians and all Americans, focusing on reducing wasteful spending, increasing American energy production, and preserving our natural legacy for the generations to come. He will be missed in Congress, and I am proud to have been able to work with him many times over the years. I wish him all the best in his retirement.”
02.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Commerce released the news that U.S. exports reached $2.3 trillion in 2013: “This is great news for America’s businesses, workers, and farmers. A record number of exports for the fourth year in a row is good news for job-creation and it means that international trade is helping our economy grow. In order to continue to boost our exports, we need ambitious trade agreements, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Trade in Services Agreement, and a U.S.-EU trade agreement, to increase access for American exporters and service providers across the globe. To successfully conclude these agreements, we need to renew Trade Promotion Authority through passage of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act, ensuring that Congress has a voice in the negotiations and updated provisions to reflect the 21st century. As a member of the President’s Export Council, I will continue to fight for an even playing field for Washington’s farmers, workers, and businesses.”
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – After today’s passage of the final Farm Bill, H.R. 2642, U.S. Congressman (WA-8) released the following statement: “Today, I was proud to support a hard-fought compromise between the House and Senate for the benefit of farmers, consumers, and our nation’s hungry. This legislation is not perfect, but it is a strong step forward. It makes the necessary commitments to our growers who sell their world-famous products across the globe, while also making fiscally responsible reforms to our agriculture policy. This compromise also includes provisions in support of renewable-energy projects and management of forest roads as well as containing an important extension of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. PILT ensures counties like Chelan, where the federal government owns most of the land, are able to provide vital services to their residents, like fire-fighting and law enforcement. Reichert continued, “It has taken years of work and much compromise, but I was pleased to vote in support of today’s legislation to provide much needed certainty for our farmers who have been faced with too many short-term extensions.” The Farm Bill provides critical resources for agricultural research programs throughout the country, including Washington State. "WSU is grateful for Congressman Reichert's support for agriculture today in voting for the Farm Bill," said Ron Mittelhammer, Acting Dean of WSU's College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences. "Through the research programs in this bill, WSU will provide support for 21st century initiatives such as the Clean Plant Network, and cutting edge research in specialty crops, organic agriculture and nutrition, providing a safe and abundant food supply for the State of Washington, Pacific Northwest and the country. We look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Reichert on important agriculture issues." The bill passed the House by a vote of 251 to 166.
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert responds to President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight we heard the president talk about opportunity. I could not agree more that opportunity is what defines our nation and what makes it great. It is the fabric of our history as well as our future. Americans deserve opportunities and they deserve a government that promotes those opportunities, not stands in their way. “I agree with the president that job creation is the key to economic growth. We can create jobs by passing free trade agreements and leveling the playing field for American companies. Washington State is the most trade-dependent state in the nation; we sell our software, airplanes, outdoor apparel, coffee, apples, and cherries around the world. This is why I have been a leader in urging my colleagues to support Trade Promotion Authority and started a caucus to promote a new trade agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. I encourage the President to work with Congress in support of TPA, because it is necessary to successfully conclude the Trans-Pacific Partnership. “The President said tonight that we needed to lower the corporate tax rate, and we do. But we must do more than that. We need to make sure that we reform the tax code and lower rates for small businesses and families, too. Lower tax rates give families, small businesses, and corporations more access to their money, creating jobs and opportunity. We need to make sure that the tax code works for the American people, not the other way around. “We need to make sure that when people are down they have the ability to lift themselves up. The President talked about new job-creating programs, but there are over 80 welfare programs on the books already. What we need is not another government program, we need to make sure that the ones we have are working. Last year, the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee, which I chair, found that our current welfare programs do not do enough to lift up many poor families in need. I stand ready to work with the President to reform these programs so that they give individuals and families the tools and training they need to find the next opportunity. “Americans excel the most when they are allowed to make their own opportunities and to make decisions for themselves. Right now, that is not what is happening with the implementation of the President’s healthcare plan. He paints a picture of success, but Americans cannot keep their doctor and they cannot keep their plan. As we’ve heard from workers and employers around the country, the employer mandate and related taxes give businesses incentives to cut hours. And people who work less earn less. This isn’t the healthcare that America wants. “Americans deserve opportunities. I believe that American hard work and ingenuity should create those opportunities, not the government. It is that hard work and ingenuity that has made our nation great and will make our nation greater.”
01.27.2014	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations for the hearing “Lessons Learned from Super Bowl Preparations: Preventing International Human Trafficking at Major Sporting Events,” to discuss his work in Congress to prevent and address this serious crime and to hear from witnesses testifying about efforts to prevent child sex trafficking. Reichert said, “It was a privilege to attend and participate in today’s hearing and to hear from the witnesses who have so clearly seen this world and all that is wrong with it. I applaud their efforts to help the young girls and boys caught up in this tragedy. Many of these victims come from the foster care system, a system into which they have been placed for their own welfare and protection. And we have failed them. We owe it to these children to ensure our Nation’s foster care system does all it can to protect them so they can live safe, happy, and successful lives. The prevalence of this problem at the Super Bowl allows us to focus national attention on it. But it is a problem seven days a week, 52 weeks a year for the children who are caught up in it. We owe it to them to develop real solutions.” Reichert serves as Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources which has jurisdiction over our nation’s foster care system. As Chairman, Reichert has been investigating the prevalence of foster youth becoming victims of sex trafficking and will soon introduce legislation based on the Human Resources subcommittee’s findings to better understand and prevent sex trafficking of youth in foster care. To view the full hearing on Lessons Learned from the Super Bowl, click here.
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – After this evening’s passage of the Omnibus Appropriations bill, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), issued the following statement: “The passage of tonight’s appropriations legislation is not only beneficial to all Americans but takes real steps to serve Washingtonians. I was glad to see essential funding for our troops and their mission to protect our security interests at home and abroad, as well as needed resources to better meet our commitments to our nation’s Veterans. I was also very pleased to see resources allocated to public safety, life-saving medical research, forest management, and rural development as well as funding the Pacific Coast Salmon Recovery Fund, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and our National Parks. These are all issues for which I have been a long-time advocate. Additionally, an amendment I sponsored restoring funds to the U.S. Fire Administration was included in the final bill. All of these programs impact Washingtonians, they work to keep us safe, create and support critical industries and jobs, and preserve our resources and natural beauty. “This bill continues the task of getting our country back on the right fiscal track, removes the threat of future government shutdowns, and eliminates wasteful spending, ensuring that taxpayer resources are funding programs that are important to Washington State.
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), and cosponsors Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), and Bruce Braley (D-IA) introduced the Lymphedema Treatment Act, H.R. 3877, to ensure Medicare coverage for the millions of Americans who suffer from this condition. “Seniors who suffer from lymphedema should not be punished for taking the necessary steps to treat their condition,” said Reichert. “By rectifying Medicare’s failure to cover compression garments we give seniors their best chance and real hope to fight back against this chronic disease. I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in this fight against lymphedema.” Blumenauer said, “We’ve seen that some of the greatest changes for good in our healthcare system start as reforms to Medicare. The Lymphedema Treatment Act makes sure that Medicare will cover the necessary treatments to combat this debilitating and disfiguring disease and to open the door for innovative new treatments in the future. It’s a necessary bill that will help alleviate needless suffering.” “Lymphedema afflicts nearly six million Americans and our legislation offers a chance to utilize the equipment needed for care,” said Lance, a member of the House Health Subcommittee and chairman of the House Rare Disease Caucus. “Cancer patients are at an especially great risk of lymphedema and need access to compression equipment to treat the condition effectively. I thank Congressman Reichert for leading this effort as we take another step in bridging the gap between proper diagnosis and access to treatment. I also praise the work of the members of the Lymphedema Advocacy Group who have been tireless advocates for patients and their loved ones.” “The risks and complications lymphedema causes can be helped by treatment, but we need to make sure that treatment is available to those who need it,” Braley said. “Ensuring Medicare covers the supplies needed for treatment would be a huge victory for those fighting this disease—and is a common-sense way to help improve their lives.” Founder and executive director of the Lymphedema Advocacy Group Heather Ferguson added, “The Lymphedema Treatment Act provides a ray of hope for the millions of Americans who suffer from lymphedema. Compression therapy is a cornerstone of lymphedema treatment, without which patients are unable to effectively manage their condition. This often leads to disease progression, comorbidities and costly complications that could have been avoided. By allowing coverage for compression supplies, this bill is pivotal in improving patient care while reducing the overall healthcare costs associated with this chronic disease.” Background Lymphedema is a chronic condition resulting from damaged or inadequate lymph nodes or lymphatic vessels that afflicts millions of Americans. It is a disease that one can be born with but it is most often caused by cancer treatments that damage the body’s lymph system or immune functions. Due to the painful swelling that results from lymphedema, compression therapy is an essential component of treatment but compression supplies are not covered by Medicare despite being an ongoing necessity. H.R. 3877 closes this coverage gap by requiring Medicare to cover lymphedema compression items.
01.09.2014	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement upon the introduction of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act of 2014 by Chairman Camp, Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Hatch. “I applaud today’s introduction of legislation to renew Trade Promotion Authority, which reaffirms the partnership between Congress and the President on international trade. The Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act ensures that Congress has a voice in trade negotiations by setting priorities and consultation requirements and is necessary for the completion of our current trade agreement negotiations. Trade supports millions of jobs in the U.S. and in order to continue to expand these opportunities, and the jobs that result, we must push forward on trade agreements. I look forward to working with the Chairman and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to bring this legislation to the floor and urge full engagement from the Administration.”
12.20.2013	Issaquah, WA – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Dave Reichert sent out letters congratulating the 55 new National Board Certified Teachers (NBCT) in Washington’s 8th Congressional District. “It is an honor to represent a District that has such a large amount of National Board Certified Teachers in the state,” Reichert wrote. “It demonstrates the inspiration that you bring to our community, striving to be the best educator for our students.” Washington State is ranked first this year in the number of new NBCTs and ranks fourth nationally in the overall total number of NBCTs. The National Board Certification process is a stringent assessment by a national panel to ensure the highest quality of teaching across America.
12.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Included in today’s vote on the bipartisan budget deal was legislation to temporarily prevent Medicare physician payment cuts and extend important Medicare provisions that are set to expire. “Today, my colleagues and I voted to protect seniors’ access to their doctors by preventing a nearly 24% cut to physician payments scheduled for January 1st,” said U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert. “I have heard repeatedly from my constituents that the sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula used to update Medicare physician payments each year is flawed and must be repealed. Today’s vote averts the SGR pay cut for three months, allowing time for bipartisan work on a permanent solution that began in the Ways and Means Committee this morning to continue. I look forward to working with my colleagues on providing necessary stability to doctors and patients and also ensuring that the system’s primary focus is on the quality of care those patients receive.” Background The Sustainable Growth Rate formula (SGR), was established in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and determines the amount by which Medicare payments to physicians are updated each year. SGR limits growth in spending on physician services to the rate of growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP). As the rate of growth in physician spending has consistently exceeded GDP in recent years, the SGR formula has called for a cut in physician payments in each of the last 10 years. Congress has been forced to intervene to avert these cuts each year. For 2014, the SGR formula calls for a 23.7% cut to take effect on January 1st. In addition to passing today’s temporary measure to avert the Medicare physician pay cut, the Ways and Means Committee held a full committee mark-up on legislation (H.R. 2810) to permanently repeal and replace the SGR. The bill will move away from the current fee for service model that pays based on the volume of services, to a system focused on improving the quality of care and outcomes for patients.
12.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.J. Res. 59 – the bipartisan budget deal announced Tuesday evening. After its passage, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement: “I am proud to join my colleagues today in passing legislation that will give Americans the first government budget passed by both houses of Congress since 2009. While there is still much work to be done to truly get our financial situation in order, the bill is a positive step in the right direction. “The agreement takes decisive action to reduce the deficit, eases the impact of the sequester, and places no new tax burdens on the American people. Instead of the indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts of the sequester, the bill eliminates waste, fraud, and abuse in current government programs. For example, the bill includes provisions from the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee, which I chair, that would improve the collection of unemployment insurance overpayments and take steps to make sure that inmates aren’t receiving government benefits while in jail. “Additionally, it gives stability to the budget and appropriations process by removing the threat of a government shutdown on the horizon. This will allow us to move forward and address other critical issues such as the need for comprehensive tax reform and immigration reform, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on those issues.” The budget passed the House by a vote of 332 to 94 and will reduce the national deficit by $23 billion and provide $63 billion in sequester relief.
12.11.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and colleagues, Congressmen Ron Kind (D-WI), Congressman Charles Boustany, M.D. (R-LA), and Gregory Meeks (D-NY), of the newly formed Friends of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Caucus, issued the following statement after the latest round of negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) concluded in Singapore earlier this week: Congressman Dave Reichert said, “I welcome the news out of Singapore of the advancement of the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations. This critical agreement encompasses almost 40% of world GDP and current TPP countries comprise a large and increasing percentage of our goods and services exports. We must make sure that the final outcome of the negotiations is high-standard as well as comprehensive, because that is what is necessary to truly benefit Washington farmers, workers and businesses and our trading partners. This is not an easy task, but in order to grow the over 326,000 jobs in Washington currently supported by trade with TPP countries, we need an ambitious outcome. I look forward to continued engagement with the Administration as we press ahead to meet these goals.” “I am pleased to see that progress is being made with our partner countries as we move closer to finalizing this groundbreaking, market-opening trade agreement,” said Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI). “A comprehensive agreement will allow our farmers, workers and businesses to maximize economic opportunities in these key markets while elevating standards for workers and strengthening our economy in Wisconsin.” Congressman Boustany (R-LA) stated, “With the conclusion of the latest rounds of TPP negotiations in Singapore, I remain optimistic in reaching a comprehensive, 21st century trade agreement. The TPP will expand existing trade ties between the United States and six current free trade agreement (FTA) partners supporting economic growth and jobs in America. In addition, the TPP will also open new markets for U.S. producers in five non-FTA partner countries in the Asia-Pacific region. As a co-chair of the Friends of TPP Caucus, I recognize there is still much work to complete. I look forward to continue to work with our Congressional colleagues and the Administration to further discussions on promoting the single largest engine of economic growth for America: trade.” Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) added, “As the latest round of TPP Ministerial talks in Singapore conclude, there is substantial progress towards a final negotiation. Important work still needs to be done, and I am encouraged by the dedication and commitment of all 12 TPP nations to reach a comprehensive, high-standard agreement. I look forward to meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Froman to discuss next steps, and how Congress can work in partnership with the Administration to build a deal that increases U.S. exports and supports American jobs.”
11.26.2013	Issaquah, WA – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert welcomed his 2013-2014 Youth Advisory Board with a reception at his District Office. The Youth Advisory Board was first formed in 2011 to get input from the young men and women who will be the future leaders of our country. “I am honored to be joined by this group of bright young men and women,” said Reichert. “Today’s youth are very informed and understand that federal policy affects us all, no matter how young or old. Therefore, it is especially important to hear everyone’s opinion. These young people will also one day be in charge of leading this nation, so I believe that encouraging them to get involved now can only be a benefit to this state and this country.” The members of the 2013-2014 Youth Advisory Board are listed below: - Jackson Bandow (Sammamish) - Katie Christensen (Enumclaw) - Catrina Crittenden (Sammamish) - Tinuola Dada (Sammamish) - Sean Fearon (Sammamish) - Andrew Franke (Sammamish) - Claire Garrett (Sammamish) - Hadley Garrett (Sammamish) - Trevor Hart (Sammamish) - Matthew Hurley (Bonney Lake) - Scott Hutchins (Auburn) - Tristana Leist (Sammamish) - Thiemo Loos (Issaquah) - Peyton McCulley (North Bend) - Riley Miller (Lake Tapps) - Jack Morgan (Issaquah) - Jayaram Ravi (Black Diamond) - Katherine Riveness (Sammamish) - Daniel Simmons (Renton) - Alyssa Stallings (Maple Valley) - Sarah Strickler (Bonney Lake) - Maggie Uceny (Ellensburg)
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced two new pieces of legislation, the Careers for Heroes Act and the Military Skills to Careers Act, to help get America’s Veterans back on their feet and into good, long-term jobs. “When our Veterans return from active service, they should not have to fear unemployment,” said Reichert. “After all they sacrifice to keep us safe, we have a responsibility to ensure their security, and a big part of that is being able to find a job and provide for themselves and their families. Washington State is home to 675,000 veterans and the largest military base on the West Coast. Over the next few years, Joint Base Lewis-McChord is set to discharge about 6,000 troops per year. I want those troops to know they have a bright future waiting for them. These two bills will help secure those bright futures and I am proud to introduce them into the House today.” “It is imperative that as employers our federal and state agencies set the example for hiring veterans and I’m proud to say that here in Washington we have set that example for state agencies,” said WDVA Director Lourdes E. Alvarado Ramos. “Following the service and sacrifice our military personnel make, making sure that jobs are available and licenses transfer seamlessly from military to civilian licensure is the very least we can do.” Anne Sprute from the organization RallyPoint/6, which helps connect Veterans with resources to help them transition into everyday life, stated, “As our service members and their families reintegrate back into communities across the state of Washington, we collectively have the opportunity to ensure the success of our next greatest generation. In this most important mission, RallyPoint/6 welcomes this legislation from Congressman Reichert to help our Veterans ‘on the path forward’ to the rest of their lives.” Tom McLaughlin, Director of the Center for Advanced Manufacturing Puget Sound (CAMPS), which operates a program that teaches veterans how the skills they’ve acquired in war can translate into civilian work, added, “CAMPS, and I personally as a Vietnam Veteran, wholeheartedly support Congressman Reichert’s legislation. Those who have served our great nation have sacrificed to protect what our country stands for and we as a society need to answer the call to action with a collaborative solution bringing together government and business.” Background Veterans, particularly those between 18 and 29, are struggling to find jobs in one of the toughest civilian labor markets in generations. The Military Skills to Careers Act would help Veterans transition their skills gained in the service into civilian jobs. The legislation would make State licenses and credentials in chosen fields more accessible and open career opportunities without adding to the deficit. The Careers for Heroes Act would ensure federal agencies are using the Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) and the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) authority to place more veterans into long-term careers. It would require the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to coordinate with these agencies to hire 15,000 veterans to fill existing vacancies over the next five years.
11.19.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) chaired the event “Our Daughters Are Not For Sale” with Congressman Rick Nolan (D-MN), and Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Dick Durbin (D-IL). Following the conclusion of the event, he released the following statement: “We must succeed,” said Rep. Reichert. “This issue of child sex trafficking is too big and too evil to ignore. The risks for our foster children, in particular, are far too high. Not only do we have to change the conversation to recognize these children as victims, we must also take action. As Chairman of the Human Resources subcommittee I will take that action, and I look forward to introducing legislation soon to address and prevent sex trafficking of foster youth. We need something that will take decisive action and make a difference.” Background The “Our Daughters Are Not For Sale” event was hosted by Google and the Human Rights Project for Girls to highlight the complex issue of domestic child sex trafficking and urge those in attendance to mobilize in order to protect our most vulnerable children from becoming involved in this travesty. The event chairs and other Members of Congress who participated in the event also formally signed a resolution they will be submitting into both the House of Representatives and the Senate that expresses that those who have been trafficked must be considered and treated as victims who need our help and support.
11.01.2013	Issaquah, WA – This morning, Congressman Dave Reichert had the opportunity to visit Seattle’s Food Lifeline distribution center. As the stimulus funding for programs like the Supplementary Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) comes to a close, it is more important than ever to understand how we can best assist those in need. Rep. Reichert stated, “The work Food Lifeline is doing is critical for Washingtonians who are struggling to put food on the table. I am grateful to them for taking the time to show me what they do and how Congress can make sure organizations like theirs are successful so that we can work together to help those in need. As the federal landscape changes in terms of federal nutrition programs, I want to make sure that groups like Food Lifeline are not negatively impacted. It is these kinds of organizations that truly highlight the generosity and caring spirit of the American people.” Background Every year, Food Lifeline serves 744,000 Washingtonians in need by providing 81,000 meals every day. Their program consists of a network of over 275 food banks, meal programs, and shelters and ninety-five per cent of the food they distribute is donated by restaurants, grocery stores, farmers and manufacturers. Today, November 1, 2013, was the date set for SNAP stimulus funding to end. Since 2009, the stimulus increased maximum SNAP monthly benefits by over 13% which resulted in an average monthly increase of above 15% for SNAP households. Effective today, maximum SNAP benefits will decrease by an estimated 5.5%. The House of Representatives recently passed nutrition legislation that included an increase in funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP). This is the type of program that is crucial for organizations like Lifeline in meeting the needs of the people they serve. For FY2014, the House legislation would provide an increase of $70 million in TEFAP funding.
10.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert, member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement after the conclusion of today’s hearing on the status of the Affordable Care Act implementation: “The president’s healthcare law has resulted in nothing but a string of broken promises to the American people. From the beginning, President Obama assured Americans that if they like their health care plan they can keep it, and if they like their doctor they can keep their doctor. But he admitted to Republican members of Congress on January 29, 2010, ‘we said from the start that — that it was going to be important for us to be consistent in saying to people if you can have your — if you want to keep the health insurance you’ve got, you can keep it; that you’re not going to have anybody getting in between you and your doctor in your decision making. And I think that some of the provisions that got snuck in might have violated that pledge.’ “Today, Americans are painfully aware these guarantees simply aren’t true. In Washington State alone a quarter million individuals received notices that their health care plan is no longer available and in its place is a higher cost alternative they simply can’t afford. Secretary Sebelius testified before this very committee that there would be no more delays in the implementation of the law and that everything would be up and ready to go when the exchanges opened October 1st. This too was a broken promise as the many problems with the rollout of the law are well documented. “Today, we had the opportunity to discuss these problems and determine the status of the Administration’s plans to resolve not only the federal exchange website issues but the problems inherent to the very law itself. While I appreciate Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Marilyn Tavenner’s readiness to testify before the Ways and Means committee and engage in a serious conversation about the law’s failures, I do not feel that, today, my questions and my constituents’ questions were answered. Unfortunately, no definitive solutions were offered to reassure Americans that the failures of the law’s implementation will be corrected and, most importantly, won’t happen again. In fact, it would seem that all that continues to await us is further problems. It is clear to me that the healthcare law is not ready for the American people. Until this administration can make absolutely certain it’s ready, or Congress can repeal what every day becomes a more problematic law that’s hurting families, the President owes it to the American people to delay the Individual Mandate, not just a mere six weeks but a full year until this healthcare law, or an alternative, can be implemented smoothly and effectively.” To see the Congressman’s full questioning, click here.
10.29.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and colleagues, Congressmen Ron Kind (D-WI), Charles W. Boustany, Jr., M.D., (R-LA), and Gregory Meeks (D-NY), of the newly formed Friends of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Caucus issued the following statement after the formal launch of the new caucus earlier today: “A high-standard, comprehensive Trans-Pacific Partnership holds significant promise for Washington businesses, farmers and workers,” said Congressman Reichert (R-WA). “In fact, trade with TPP countries already supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in my home state. Today, I’m honored to help launch a bipartisan group to focus on this agreement and what it could potentially mean for our economy and our international relationships. I look forward to working with my colleagues, the Administration, the business community and the representatives of the TPP countries to push forward for a successful, 21st century agreement.” “American exports support nearly 10 million good-paying jobs here at home. The Trans-Pacific Partnership represents a great opportunity to be a groundbreaking, market-opening trade agreement that helps the United States reclaim some of its share of exports to key Asia-Pacific markets, and strengthen America’s ability to compete in the 21st century global economy,” said Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), chairman of the New Democrat Coalition. “I’m proud to be a part of the TPP Caucus and I will continue working for a trade policy that maximizes our economic opportunities while providing a level playing field for our workers and businesses.” Boustany (R-LA) added, “Trade continues to serve as a catalyst for pro-economic growth around the world. In supporting almost 10 million American jobs, the trading power of the twelve TPP participating countries is a driving force in today’s global economy. As we continue to move forward with negotiations to complete a substantive TPP trade agreement, it will be crucial for Congress to weigh in on the important economic and strategic benefits this critical agreement will have for the U.S. and our constituents. The TPP presents America’s top exporters, like those in South Louisiana, with opportunities to expand in areas of trade, job creation, and global cooperation. Over 115 TPP companies have investments in Louisiana with 30% of Louisiana’s exports bound for TPP countries. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the TPP Caucus to grow America’s relationship with its Asia-Pacific partners to promote bilateral trade while strengthening a mutually beneficial relationship.” Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) stated, “I am very pleased to serve as a co-chair along side Representative Boustany, Representative Reichert, and Representative Kind on the bipartisan Friends of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Caucus. The Caucus will provide a forum to discuss the broader U.S. strategic goals and benefits of the TPP Agreement. The 12 participating nations have a combined GDP of almost 40 percent of the world’s gross domestic product and 8.6 percent of global trade. This is an exciting opportunity for the United States to more closely engage with our friends and allies across the Pacific.”
10.22.2013	Washington, D.C. -- This evening the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 3205, the Promoting Adoption and Legal Guardianship for Children in Foster Care Act. This bipartisan legislation recognizes the critical need in the United States to get children from foster care into permanent, adoptive homes and takes steps to make that happen. The bill was introduced by Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), as well as Ways and Means Ranking Member Sandy Levin (D-MI), and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “I can’t think of a more important, or more bipartisan, topic than promoting adoption,” said Reichert. “I know, as a grandfather and uncle to adopted children, the joys that a child can find in a loving, permanent home, and I have experienced the equal joys that an adopted child brings to their adoptive family. There are 100,000 children in foster care waiting for these experiences and I am pleased that we have passed legislation today that will work to rectify that problem. Every American child deserves the love and support of a happy home.” Background H.R. 3205 acts in five key ways to spur the adoption of children still in the foster care system: 1. It improves the formulas behind the Adoption Incentive Program awards to encourage states to continue placing foster children in permanent homes even as foster care caseloads continue to decline. 2. It adds a special award for states that increase adoptions of teenage children which are proven to be the hardest to place in adoptive homes. Teenagers deserve the same care and attention as a child of any other age. 3. It adds a new award for states that place children with legal guardians which is a crucial element in allowing children to leave foster care and live with loving and stable relatives. 4. It requires states to focus on post-adoption services, helping children and families even after adoptions have been finalized. 5. It extends the Family Connection Grants program for three years. This program is designed to help foster children reconnect with family members.
10.18.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Dave Reichert issued the following statement after the death of Congressman C.W. Bill Young: "Congressman C.W. Bill Young of Florida passed away today at Walter Reed Hospital. He was a dear friend, a respected colleague, a loving husband and father, and a very good man. My sincerest condolences go out to his family. I keep them in my prayers during this difficult time. I take comfort, as I hope they do, in knowing Bill's legacy of warmth and wisdom will always remain with us."
10.18.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Upon hearing of the passing of former Speaker of the House Tom Foley from Washington State, Congressman Dave Reichert issued the following statement: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family of former Speaker of the House Tom Foley, who died today. Mr. Foley dedicated his life to serving Washington State and his country. He was an example of the virtues we should all try to exhibit: fairness, compassion, and thoughtfulness. He always made time for his constituents, as well as his colleagues, regardless of party or beliefs. His time as a member of Congress, and as a Speaker, remain as a guide for all the men and women, Republican or Democrat, who follow in his footsteps.”
10.17.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Last night, after the House voted to reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling, Congressman Dave Reichert issued the following statement: "Tomorrow the government will be up and running and the United States will be able to pay its debts. I am glad that Congress has finally acted as our constituents have demanded. We already waited too long. I hope this agreement is a sign that both sides can work together in the coming weeks to get our economy going and find a long-term solution to our debt problems. We cannot continue to rely on a series of quick fixes."
10.04.2013	Washington, D.C. -- This afternoon, Congressman Reichert sent his constituents an update on the current status of the government shutdown. The text of that update is below: "As your representative in Washington, D.C., I wanted to provide an update on the current shutdown of the federal government. While we negotiate a solution to our budget crisis, the House of Representatives has passed a number of bills to ensure that Americans are affected as little as possible by the current shutdown. As your Representative, please know that I will continue to vote for any legislation that keeps the federal government open. "So far, the House of Representatives has voted to make sure that our military members, national guard and reserve officers are paid, that the Department of Veterans Affairs is open to assist America’s heroes, that the Federal Emergency Management Agency can do its job, that low-income women and children can receive nutrition assistance, and that our National Parks remain open for business. In the coming days, we will pass legislation to ensure that furloughed federal employees receive retroactive pay, that the Food and Drug Administration is funded, and that the Head Start program remains open. Please urge your Senators to pass these bills while we work to find a solution to fix our budget, solve our debt crisis, and get the American economy going again. "Also, please know that while the government is shut down, our offices are still open to serve the 8th District of Washington. Please do not hesitate to reach out our District (425.677.7414) or D.C. (202.225.7761) offices if you have any questions as the shutdown continues."
10.02.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Yesterday, on the first day of the government shutdown, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert made the decision to withhold his federal pay for the duration of the shutdown. The text of Congressman Reichert’s letter to Dan Strodel, the Chief Administrative Officer for the United States Congress reads: “I understand that in the event of a lapse in appropriations for the funding of the Federal government and a subsequent government shutdown, Members of Congress would continue to receive their salary. Given that there has been a lapse in appropriations beginning October 1, 2013, please hold my salary until the lapse in appropriations ends.” “It’s the fair and right thing to do,” said Rep. Reichert. “This is a difficult time for our country and I should not get special treatment while thousands of others are dealing with furloughs through no fault of their own.” As the Congressman stated in his earlier statement regarding the shutdown, he is actively working with his colleagues to pursue solutions that will get the government back up and running, so that it can best serve the American people. Until that time, Reichert will continue his efforts without salary.
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert issued the following statement after a Government shutdown was not averted: “I am disappointed that the Senate and the House could not come to a reasonable compromise tonight. A government shutdown is not in the best interest of the American people, whom we have promised to serve. But, I will not give up fighting for them. It is my hope that the Senate will quickly appoint conferees so that we can come to a bipartisan agreement to fund our government. I will do everything within my power to find a solution to this problem, to get our government reopened so that it can fulfill its duties to the utmost benefit of this great nation.”
09.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – "Last week, I voted yes on a bill that made significant changes to our current food stamp program, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (or SNAP). Our government must be fiscally responsible in order to have the means to help others not just now, but in the future. But what’s more important is that the current SNAP program does not provide real help to those in need. No one should ever go hungry. Having run away from home and lived in my car for a number of months in my teenage years, I know all too well what it is like to wonder where my next meal will come from. The current food stamp program does not and has not helped in solving that problem. This new food stamp legislation assists people getting back on their feet and back to work so that they can provide for themselves and their families. "The House legislation prevents fraud and abuse in the program, ensures that the program is fiscally sustainable, and makes pro-work reforms. For example, the most important change in the bill provides opportunities for able bodied adults without children to be counseled and guided to new job training opportunities, part-time jobs, or volunteer activity that will serve the public and at the same time provide valuable job experience. As long as you participate in these activities for 20 hours a week, you will still receive food stamps until you are able to find full employment. When similar requirements were enacted to the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) cash welfare program as a part of the 1996 welfare reforms, the nation saw record rises in work and earnings, and record drops in dependence and poverty. "This summer, as the Chair of the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee, I held a number of hearings on the wide range of programs meant to help low-income families. One of the main findings of these hearings was that too many of our current welfare programs do an inadequate job of helping low-income adults find jobs so they can increase their earnings and support their families. It is only fair to the taxpayers financing these benefits, and those receiving them, that able-bodied adults receiving food stamps are put in the best position possible to find a job. The House-passed SNAP bill does just that. "Additionally, the bill takes steps to ensure that benefits go to only those who qualify. Currently, individuals eligible for certain other welfare programs are automatically eligible for food stamps (also known as "categorical eligibility"). This loophole has allowed lottery winners and millionaires to receive food stamps. The House legislation puts a stop to this, saving valuable taxpayer dollars for those who are truly in need and supposed to collect these benefits under food stamp program rules. "Also, similar to the Senate food stamp legislation, the House bill addresses the "heat and eat" loophole. States take advantage of the current benefit system, sending as little as $1 per month in Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program payments to food stamp recipients. That $1 automatically qualifies the recipient for up to $130 in extra food stamp benefits. The bottom line is that this loophole has let States game the system at the expense of the taxpayer. Look – if you qualify for food stamp benefits by meeting the income and asset eligibility requirements, you deserve help. Both the House and Senate have agreed that allowing states to game the system does not truly help those in need. "Nutrition assistance must be a way to lift struggling Americans out of their current situation, not a program that keeps them there. It’s easy to ignore these problems, and that’s what we’ve been doing for too long. I believe that the House-passed bill helps to ensure that the SNAP program gives people the tools they need to find a job and is available for years to come for those truly in need. Now, the House and Senate will have to resolve the differences between the proposals of each Chamber, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to do so in a bipartisan way."
09.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Reichert has nominated Mike Magnotti of Wenatchee, WA to be honored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) as an Angel in Adoption. This honor will be bestowed at an awards ceremony on October 8th followed by a gala event the next day in Washington, D.C. Mr. Magnotti has been a servant-leader for many years. He began helping children and families with adoptions in 2007 when he took a position with Antioch Adoptions in Redmond, WA. This was after 20 years of services with the Wenatchee Police Department specializing in child abuse and domestic violence cases. He was able to reach more people when he started his own organization called New Life Adoptions in October 2010. New Life Adoptions is a non-profit organization that seeks to provide foster children and privately relinquished infants with Christian adoptive homes. They help every child regardless of age, ethnicity, special needs, or health concerns and through the generosity of their donors are able to do all of this for free, only excepting foreign adoptions. To date, New Life Adoptions has facilitated the adoptions of 46 children. “Mr. Magnotti has dedicated his life to improving the welfare of children, placing their needs above his own,” said Rep. Reichert. “He has sacrificed much and truly deserves the honor of being named an Angel in Adoption.” Background CCAI was created in 2001 by the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Coalition on Adoption to raide Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. The Angels in Adoption program began in 1999 as a Congressional press conference to recognizing individuals who were outstanding in this area. The program has since developed and is now a yearlong awareness campaign that culminates in an awards ceremony and Gala celebration in Washington, D.C. At this years, event more than 140 “Angels” from around the country will be recognized.
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), Co-Chair of the House Law Enforcement Caucus applauds yesterday’s passage by the Senate Judiciary Committee of the National Blue Alert Act of 2013. The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the legislation by a vote of 15-3. Congressman Reichert was a cosponsor of the original House legislation which passed by an overwhelming majority in May 2013. As a former Deputy and the Sheriff of King County, Washington, Rep. Reichert has too often felt the loss of a law enforcement brother or sister over his 33 year career. Creating the National Blue Alert system helps to protect not just the men and women of law enforcement, but their families and communities. “Creating the National Blue Alert system is a necessary step towards preventing tragedy and keeping our communities and loved ones safe,” said Reichert. “When a criminal murders a law enforcement officer, speedy apprehension is essential to protecting the public, preventing further loss of life and returning peace to communities. By creating a system to quickly disseminate crucial information, we empower ordinary citizens and public safety officers, increasing the speed of justice. I am pleased that the Senate has begun the process to pass this bill because it is a critical means of fulfilling our duty to keep American’s safe.” The National Blue Alert Act of 2013 has the full support of multiple Law Enforcement organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriff’s Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. It directs the Attorney General to establish a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is killed or injured in the line of duty. The act assigns an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator responsible for creating voluntary guidelines to assist states in developing their Blue Alert plans. While over 17 states have already developed Blue Alert systems, criminals do not respect borders, and to this end the Act encourages more states to establish such plans so they can quickly communicate and share information with each other and the public about potentially dangerous offenders on the run.
09.19.2013	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) attended the biannual meeting of the President’s Export Council this morning with cabinet members, state officials and business leaders to discuss with President Barack Obama the importance of our current trade negotiations as well as the need to renew Trade Promotion Authority. Among other negotiations, the U.S. is currently negotiating trade agreements with 11 countries in the Asia-Pacific region (Trans-Pacific Partnership) and the European Union (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership). “As we talk about the importance of trade and trade agreements,�? said Reichert, “we can no longer do so without discussing the need for Trade Promotion Authority, which ensures that Congress has a voice in trade negotiations. Just as our current trade negotiations have bipartisan support in Congress, so does the renewal of Trade Proportion Authority. I am committed to expanding trade opportunities for Washington workers, businesses, and farmers. Because these opportunities create and support jobs here at home.�? BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC in May 2010: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.�? Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea.
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement upon passage of the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act this evening: “Today the House passed the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act. I am glad we were able to come to an agreement that will immediately lower rates for new borrowers and puts student loan interest rates back on a track toward long term stability through fixed rates. Student loans are what make college financially possible for many, and keeping the government from controlling student loans assures students they will be able to repay their loans in a reasonable time without increases in their rates.”
07.23.2013	Washington, D.C. -- This morning, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) had the opportunity to testify before the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in support of his legislation H.R. 361, the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act. “I am honored to be able to carry on the bipartisan legacy of Washington legislators to preserve our rich, natural heritage,” said Reichert. “I am grateful that King County Councilmember Reagan Dunn was here to join me today. He and I both understand the pivotal role of the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area in our state. It is one of the most visited in the nation, providing a wealth of recreational opportunities and enjoyment to the people of Washington and visitors from around the country. Passage of this legislation will bring increased prosperity to the region and to local businesses that reap the benefits of the tourism generated by this area. It will also ensure our children and grandchildren will be able to appreciate and enjoy everything this area has to offer.” To see Rep. Reichert’s full testimony, click here.
07.19.2013	Washington, D.C – After the House voted on H.R. 5 this morning, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) released the following statement: “Educating our children is one of our most important responsibilities as Americans, and ensuring our system’s quality and effectiveness is, and always has been, one of my highest priorities as a member of Congress. Today, I voted no on H.R. 5, the Student Success Act, because, although there were several good aspects to the legislation, I had very serious concerns. “Our teachers, our schools, and our students deserve the best. But this bill undermines education opportunities for our most vulnerable students, like children with special needs. Additionally, the bill could take away crucial support for struggling schools. It would force bad schools to become worse, leaving our children in circumstances that would increase their likelihood of ending up in a life of poverty, crime, or both. We can do better, and I will continue to work towards solutions that will give our children quality education and secure futures.”
06.12.2013	Washington, D.C – United States Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) today applauded House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings’s (R-WA) announcement that his Committee will soon begin consideration of new wilderness proposals. Specifically, the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation, Chaired by Congressman Rob Bishop (R-Utah), will hold a legislative hearing in July on Rep. Reichert’s Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 361). This legislation, which he re-introduced with Senator Patty Murray, along with Congresswoman Suzan DelBene earlier this year, proposes a 22,000-acre expansion of the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area. The expansion would include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds, and designation of both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “I was encouraged to hear Chairman Hastings’s announcement last night,” said Reichert. “Protecting resources and preserving recreational opportunities has long been a strong, bipartisan tradition for the Washington delegation. I have been working with the support of my colleagues since 2007 to ensure the protection of these lands and encourage the benefits this could have for local communities and businesses that rely on the support of recreationists from across the country. Consideration of this bill by the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Subcommittee is an important step so this legislation can finally be signed into law and our natural heritage and the incredible beauty of our state can be preserved for future generations.” “Washington state has a long, bipartisan tradition of protecting our wild lands, rivers and lakes. The announcement by Chairman Hastings of the House Natural Resources Committee’s plan to take up the legislation to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness and protect the Pratt and Snoqualmie Rivers is great news for our state, outdoor enthusiasts and the local communities that depend on this precious habitat and pristine environment,” said Congresswoman Suzan DelBene, original cosponsor to the House bill. “I want to thank Chairman Hastings for his willingness to consider this important legislation and to Congressman Reichert for his leadership on the issue. This bipartisan bill is an opportunity for us to protect our natural landscapes and expand the great recreational opportunities that make living in the Northwest so special.” Background The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest wild forests to an urban center and provides key recreations opportunities. H.R. 361 includes: · Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands; this will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these 21,000 acres of public land into wilderness has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. · Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center. Rep. Reichert, with the support of state and local officials, other local leaders and constituents of the community, first introduced this wilderness protection measure in November 2007. From extensive stakeholder inquiries involving recreation groups, conservationists, tribes, local lawmakers, nearby landowners and public agencies, Rep. Reichert worked carefully to involve these stakeholders in discussions as the legislation was crafted and as it was introduced. Rep. Reichert’s bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on March 18, 2010.
06.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, and Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced a bill to help small businesses in Washington state, and across the country, export their products overseas. The bipartisan Next STEP Act of 2013 would permanently authorize the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program, which helps small businesses trying to overcome hurdles to exporting. “When our small businesses export their products overseas, they create jobs here at home,” Larsen said. “The STEP program has helped hundreds of businesses in Washington state generate millions of dollars of sales. Every dollar we spent through STEP brought back $75 to our state. That kind of success begs repeating. I am pleased to work on a bipartisan basis with Congressman Reichert to help Northwest businesses grow and create jobs.” “We must support our small businesses seeking to increase their footprints abroad or those exporting for the first time,” Reichert said. “This bipartisan bill is intended to do just that. With the overwhelming majority of consumers living outside of our borders, we need to work together to encourage small businesses to engage in the global economy, creating jobs here at home. I look forward to continued work in support of our exporters with my colleague Congressman Larsen.” The STEP program was created by Congress in 2010 as a three-year pilot program, and is set to expire next year. In Washington state, 387 businesses used STEP funding to boost their exports. According to the Washington State Department of Commerce, this has resulted in an increase of more than $29 million in export sales and supported more than 1,200 jobs. Algona-based Cimtech, Inc. and Burlington-based Commercial Aircraft Interiors both used STEP grants to make contracts abroad. “We have made connections that over time will certainly lead to profitable opportunities,” said Cimtech President Steve Kidd. A fact sheet on the Next STEP Act is available here. The text of the bill is available here. More information on the STEP program from the U.S. Small Business Administration is available here.
06.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FY 2014 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2217) including an amendment introduced by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) that would maintain vital funding for the United States Fire Administration (USFA). “This amendment is extremely important to ensure that fire personnel have the resources they need to safely fight fires and protect American citizens,” said Reichert. “I have seen firsthand the devastation caused by out-of-control fires, and I want to be certain that through the USFA our firefighters have the support and training needed to not only respond to but also prevent those fires from destroying businesses, homes, and lives.” Last year, Washington State saw record devastation from fire damage. Fire Chief John Sinclair leads the Kittitas Valley Fire and Rescue which was one of the agencies that helped ultimately contain and put out the fires that swept through Central Washington. Chief Sinclair said in support of the amendment, “The United States Fire Administration is vital to our nation’s fire service. Fire Departments and Fire Districts throughout Washington have benefited from the training and education programs, firefighter safety strategies, and Grant Programs administered through USFA. As Fire Chief of a Fire District that also serves the City of Ellensburg, I commend Congressman Reichert for taking the bold step to bring funding up to the levels we need to keep the USFA functioning in a way that benefits the citizens of Washington and the United States." Rep. Reichert was joined by Reps. John Delaney (D-MD), Peter King (R-NY), and Robert Andrews (D-NJ) in cosponsoring the amendment. The amendment had strong support from fire service groups including the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC), the International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF), the Congressional Fire Services Institute (CFSI), the National Fire Protection Association and the National Volunteer Fire Council. The groups sent a letter of support to Reps. Reichert and Delaney for the amendment.
05.30.2013	Issaquah, WA – Yesterday evening, Rep. Reichert held a reception honoring the young men and women who received nominations to one of the U.S. service academies. The nomination process is not easy, and all who received a nomination are young people of the highest caliber. They must have excellent grades, clear leadership skills, and a heart for service. “I am so proud of the young men and women of our district who received appointments to one of our service academies. They are a group of upstanding, highly intelligent young people who will serve our great nation to the best of their abilities.” said Reichert. “And while it was not possible for everyone I nominated to receive appointments, they were all deserving of that distinction. I am honored to have been able to meet them and interact with them during this time in their lives, and I look forward to seeing the great things they will do in their futures.” The students who received appointments to a service academy from the Washington-8th District* are: United States Air Force Academy Nichole Carlson; Duvall, WA Daniel Cinnamon; Renton, WA Aaron Fitts; Mercer Island, WA Ashley Martinez; Carnation, WA Larkin Sayre; Mercer Island, WA Maria Volodkevich; Sammamish, WA United States Merchant Marine Academy Evan Nygaard; Bellevue, WA United States Military Academy Cole Johnson; Bellevue, WA Dylan Thomas; Orting, WA United States Naval Academy Nicholas Co; Issaquah, WA Benjamin Dimer; Mercer Island, WA Alyson Hands; Bellevue, WA Jordan Harris; Bellevue, WA Allen Wang; Issaquah, WA Sonya Ye; Sammamish, WA *Please note that these appointments are from the 112th Congressional 8th District and do not reflect the redrawn 113th Congressional 8th District.
05.20.2013	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement on the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) outgoing Commissioner Steven Miller's testimony today before the House Committee on Ways and Means. "The American people, and their representatives in Congress, have a right to know that they are being properly and honestly served by their government. Unfortunately, in today's hearing the IRS continued to be uncooperative. They refused to identify who was ultimately responsible for the blatant abuse of power in targeting conservative groups in processing tax-exempt applications. The IRS must be held accountable for its actions. I will continue working with my colleagues to uncover who is responsible and take steps to ensure that no group or individual, regardless of their political affiliation, has their constitutional rights trampled on or threatened by the IRS. To see Rep. Reichert's questioning of Acting Commissioner Steven Miller during today's hearing, click here.
05.15.2013	Washington, D.C - U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, today released the following on the 51st observance of Peace Officers Memorial Day: "Every day I think of my brothers and sisters in law enforcement. As a cop, we serve as a unit, as a family. Together we work to protect and defend our communities; together we risk our lives. When a life is lost it affects all of us,” said Reichert. “Today, as I had the honor to attend the National Law Enforcement Memorial Service, I remember especially those brothers and sisters who have made the ultimate sacrifice. It is our duty to remember and revere their work. This week I join with my law enforcement family in honoring the fallen Officers from Washington State: Sergeant William Armstrong, Trooper Tony Radulescu, and Ranger Margaret Anderson as well as all those who have lost their lives protecting their communities across the nation." This Congress, Rep. Reichert has introduced or supported several pieces of legislation that would equip law enforcement officers with the tools they need to keep our communities safe. In January, he introduced bipartisan legislation that would reauthorize the Community Orienting Policing Services (COPS) grant program (H.R. 421). In February, he introduced with Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09) the Department of Justice (DOJ) Global Advisory Committee (GAC) Authorization Act (H.R. 817), and only yesterday, he supported the passage of the Blue Alert legislation of which he was a cosponsor. Rep. Reichert also works to support law enforcement through his position as Co-Chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus. BACKGROUND President John F. Kennedy designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day in 1962; the preceding week has become "Police Week” honoring all of those who have served in law enforcement. During this time, police officers from all over the nation come together in Washington, D.C., to pay tribute to their fellow officers who gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 3,000 people have been remembered. This year, among the 321 names to be inscribed on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, three from Washington State will be honored: - Officer William W. Armstrong – Jefferson County, Washington, S.O. - Officer Tony Vian Radulescu – Washington State Patrol - Officer Margaret A. Anderson – National Park Service
05.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) introduced the Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreement Act, H.R. 1982 into the House of Representatives. The legislation aims to protect injured workers whose workers’ compensation claims overlap with Medicare coverage. Far too often, these claims are subjected to lengthy and cumbersome reviews by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to determine appropriate set-aside amounts to pay for future medical costs in which Medicare may have an interest. The delays associated with this review place unfair burdens upon the injured party. “This is a common-sense measure to ensure that hard-working Americans are not left in limbo because of inefficient bureaucratic procedures,” said Rep. Reichert. “Injured workers must have the confidence that their heath care claims will be processed in a fair and timely manner. By introducing this bill, Rep. Thompson and I aim to do just that: protect our hard-working citizens by making sure our systems serve them and their families.” “The last thing injured workers should have to worry about is if needless bureaucracy is going to prevent their medical bills from being paid,” said Thompson. “This bill will make sure hard working families’ medical claims are processed efficiently and quickly, it will reduce bureaucratic headaches for businesses, and it will save taxpayers money. I will continue working with Congressman Reichert to get this bipartisan bill signed into law.” Background The Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreements Act establishes clear and consistent standards for an administrative process that provides reasonable protections for injured workers and Medicare. It would benefit injured workers, employers and insurers by creating a system of certainty, and allows the settlement process to move forward while eliminating millions of dollars in administrative costs that harm workers, employers and insurers. The legislation has widespread support from groups such as the American Insurance Association, the American Bar Association, the National Council of Self-Insurers, Property Casualty, Insurers Association of America, UWC-Strategic Services and the Workers Injury Law and Advocacy Group (WILG).
05.14.2013	Washington, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), Co-Chair of the House Law Enforcement Caucus applauded passage of the National Blue Alert Act of 2013, which he co-sponsored. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 406-2. As a former Deputy and the Sheriff of King County, Washington, Rep. Reichert has too often felt the loss of a law enforcement brother or sister over his 33 year career. Creating the National Blue Alert system helps to protect not just the men and women of law enforcement, but their families and communities. “Creating the National Blue Alert system is a necessary step towards preventing tragedy and keeping our communities and loved ones safe,” said Reichert. “When a criminal murders a law enforcement officer, speedy apprehension is essential to protecting the public, preventing further loss of life and returning peace to communities. By creating a system to quickly disseminate crucial information, we empower ordinary citizens and public safety officers, increasing the speed of justice. Adding to the tools at the disposal of law enforcement is a critical means of fulfilling our duty to keep America safe.” According to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, there is an upward trend in ambush attacks against law enforcement, like the ambush that resulted in the death of Washington State Trooper Tony Radelescu. Washington State also saw the tragic death of Park Ranger Margaret Anderson last year, who sacrificed her life to protect those she served. Both Trooper Radelescu’s and Ranger Anderson’s names will be added this year to the National Law Enforcement Memorial dedicated to fallen officers. The National Blue Alert Act of 2013 has the full support of multiple Law Enforcement organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriff’s Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. It directs the Attorney General to establish a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is killed or injured in the line of duty. The act assigns an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator responsible for creating voluntary guidelines to assist states in developing their Blue Alert plans. While over 15 states have already developed Blue Alert systems, criminals do not respect borders, and to this end the Act encourages more states to establish such plans so they can quickly communicate and share information with each other and the public about potentially dangerous offenders on the run.
05.13.2013	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement on the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) admission on Friday that it had specifically singled out conservative groups when processing applications for tax-exemption. “I was appalled to learn of the IRS’s blatant abuse of power in targeting conservative groups in processing tax-exempt applications. No group, regardless of political affiliation, should have their right to free speech threatened by the IRS. Even more troubling is the fact that the IRS had repeatedly denied, despite numerous inquiries by the Ways and Means Committee, that this sort of targeting was taking place. The IRS’s conduct in this matter has been unacceptable, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to find out what the IRS knew, when it knew it, and the officials responsible for such discrimination. The IRS must be held accountable for its actions.” Background In a statement released Friday, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) announced that the Committee will hold a hearing on the matter in the weeks ahead. Congressman Reichert has been a Member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee since 2009. During the 113th Congress, Reichert serves as Chair of the Ways and Means Tax Reform Working Group on Tax Exempt Organizations and the Charitable Deduction. Reichert’s prior work in the oversight of tax exempt organizations includes a 2011 report on the commercial and political activities of AARP.
05.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Last night, U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert held a reception for the participants of this year’s Congressional Art Competition at the Green River Community College. It was announced that this year’s winner is Mia Hell from Tahoma Senior High School. Her winning piece is entitled “Dive In”. Second and third place were claimed by Austin Perry (“Sustainability”), and Dylan Hageman (“Clear Vision”), respectively; both are students at Tahoma Senior High School. “I am so pleased by the high level of participation this year and I am blown away by the quality and talent displayed in each submission,” said Reichert. “Each one of these students should take pride in their accomplishments, just as I and the rest of this district take pride in them. I look forward to seeing Mia’s artwork in the halls of the Capitol as a visual reminder of the talent and commitment to success of our district.” Background The Congressional Art Competition was founded in 1982. Since that time, over 650,000 high school students from across the nation have participated. This year, Washington’s 8th District saw a higher than average turnout with 48 students entering 80 pieces of artwork. The participating schools included Auburn Mountainview High School, Auburn Senior High School, Bonney Lake High School, Chelan High School, Skyline High School, and Tahoma Senior High School.
04.30.2013	ISSAQUAH – Today U.S. Representative Dave Reichert announced legislation to designate the Mountains to Sound Greenway as a National Heritage Area. The bill, H.R. 1785, was introduced to Congress by Rep. Reichert on Friday, April 26th. “Designating the Mountains to Sound Greenway a National Heritage Area is yet another step in recognizing Washington State’s distinguished influence and contribution to the national movement of keeping America green, clean, and pristine,” said U.S. Representative Dave Reichert. “The natural wealth and beauty of the Greenway represents a truly unique national gem and I’m proud to represent such an integral part of our nation’s heritage, nestled in the heart of Washington State. The Mountains to Sound Greenway has played a vital role in many of our nation’s most important industries: from salmon and coal, to timber and recreation, to technology and green building. I am so pleased to champion this effort, helping to preserve this important piece of Washington State’s heritage, which has been so central to America’s history, for our children and grandchildren.” “The National Heritage Area designation of the Mountains to Sound Greenway will communicate the national significance of the Greenway and build public awareness, recognition and involvement in stewardship of this landscape between Seattle and Ellensburg,” said Bill Chapman, President of the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust. “Our goal is to empower citizens, businesses, interest groups and government to work together more efficiently to promote and preserve the Greenway for generations to come.” The Mountains to Sound Greenway is a 1.5 million-acre landscape with alpine peaks, wilderness lakes, and lush forests that connect by road, rail and trail to rural towns and city high-rises, sustaining generations through an abundance of natural resources. Today, the Greenway’s scenic beauty is the backdrop for the daily lives of 1.4 million residents who live, work and play in communities deeply rooted to the land around them. “Showcasing the remarkable balance between a flourishing economy and access to recreation and nature that we enjoy in our region, we have an opportunity to demonstrate to the entire country that the Greenway is a national treasure,” says Chapman. Twenty years of innovative conservation and collaborative solutions protect the natural heritage of the Greenway. This network of parks, forests, farms, and cities is part of a regional history and a legacy for future generations. The Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area will be a fitting recognition of this regional identity in the Pacific Northwest, and serve as a model of sustainability and cooperative solutions for the nation. A National Heritage Area is a large, lived-in area designated by the United States Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a landscape of national distinction. This designation provides a flexible strategy to encourage residents, government agencies, nonprofit groups and private partners to collaboratively plan and implement projects to preserve a landscape, without affecting private property rights.
04.17.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the entire Washington state congressional delegation sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley to again express its strongest support for basing the Air Force’s new KC-46A aerial refueling tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington. “With its strategic location and ability to support the Pacific rebalance, investments in infrastructure, unparalleled classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing and 141st Air Refueling Wing, and strong community support, we believe Fairchild is the strongest candidate to serve as the first Main Operating Base for the KC-46A,” the delegation wrote in the letter to Secretary Donley. “We appreciate the manner in which the Air Force has handled this strategic basing process and look forward to your consideration of Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the new tanker fleet.” In December 2011 and May 2012, members of the Washington delegation sent letters to Secretary Donley highlighting the benefits to basing the tankers in Spokane. Fairchild is currently home to KC-135 aerial refueling tankers and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. With help from Washington’s Congressional delegation, Fairchild already possesses much of the needed capacity to accommodate the new KC-46A aerial refueling tanker including its 14,000 foot runway, a new, state-of-the-art fitness center, and a new wing command headquarters to better integrate active-duty Airmen and Air National Guardsmen. The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1400 Dear Secretary Donley: On behalf of the Washington State delegation, we write to express our strongest support for basing the Air Force’s new KC-46A aerial refueling tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington. We believe Fairchild’s strategic location combined with its core strengths in capacity and the well-established association between the Air Force’s 92nd Air Refueling Wing and the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing make it the ideal first home of the new KC-46A aerial refueling tankers. Additionally, the Spokane community has demonstrated strong support for Fairchild and is actively taking steps to ensure that Fairchild’s mission can continue for years to come. Fairchild is in an optimal strategic position to maximize support for the KC-46A mission. The only base west of the Rocky Mountains to be considered for the first Main Operating Base for the KC-46A refueling tankers, Fairchild has the advantage of serving as a gateway to the Pacific Rim. With the Department of Defense rebalancing towards the Asia-Pacific region, Fairchild is the best positioned candidate base to support the spectrum of bilateral and multilateral training exercises, as well as possible contingency operations, in U.S. Pacific Command’s area of responsibility. Possessing much of the needed capacity to accommodate the new KC-46A aerial refueling tanker, the Air Force continues to recognize Fairchild’s strategic value with a sustained campaign of infrastructure investments totaling more than $400 million in the last several decades. These investments include an improved 14,000 foot runway, a new, state-of-the-art fitness center, and updated SERE facilities. Additionally, a new wing command headquarters designed to better integrate Fairchild’s active-duty Airmen and Air National Guardsmen is currently under construction. Fairchild is home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. This association marries the best the active duty and guard components have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. Fairchild, as a base with a mature, high-performing association, is the model for the entire Air Mobility Community. Fairchild has a long history with our nation’s aerial refueling fleet. The important community support that Fairchild established in 1942 when the City of Spokane and local residents donated land for the base is alive today – with the community continuing to protect its servicemembers via the Joint Land Use Study and the Fairchild Air Force Base Protection and Community Empowerment Project which seeks to permanently reduce the residential density in Fairchild’s Accident Potential Zone II. In addition, the State of Washington has demonstrated their commitment to support the continued viability of the installation by proposing $2.7 million in the state’s budget for the acquisition of land within the encroachment zone at Fairchild Air Force Base. With its strategic location and ability to support the Pacific rebalance, investments in infrastructure, unparalleled classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing and 141st Air Refueling Wing, and strong community support, we believe Fairchild is the strongest candidate to serve as the first Main Operating Base for the KC-46A. We appreciate the manner in which the Air Force has handled this strategic basing process and look forward to your consideration of Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the new tanker fleet. Sincerely, The Washington Delegation Cc: General Mark A. Welsh, III Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force General Paul J. Selva Commander, Air Mobility Command Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clark, III Director, Air National Guard The Honorable Kathleen Ferguson Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment, and Logistics)
03.14.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim Matheson (D-UT), Pete Olson (R-TX), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced H.R. 1148: the Medicare Access to Radiology Care Act of 2013. The bipartisan legislation would allow for Medicare coverage of qualified radiology assistant (RA) services. “RAs are highly trained and skilled professionals who have mastered complex technologies and understand how to best serve radiology patients in a safe and effective manner,” said Reichert. “Making certain that their services are covered by Medicare is merely common-sense, and passage of this legislation would play an essential role in improving and increasing patient access to radiology services.” Rep. Olson said, “I'm pleased to join my colleagues in again introducing common sense legislation that will promote more efficient healthcare for America’s seniors, save jobs, and enable the Medicare program to realize cost savings and fill the gap in doctor shortages through the use of Radiology Assistants. This measure would improve the quality of care and ensure timely access to diagnostic and interventional imaging procedures.” “As record numbers of seniors join the Medicare program, we need to ensure that radiology services are accessible,” said Pascrell. “By allowing qualified and trained radiology assistants to perform these essential services along with supervising radiologists, this legislation safeguards that beneficiaries will receive nothing but the highest level of care.” Rep. Matheson said, “Ensuring that these highly trained medical professionals are adequately and fairly reimbursed under Medicare will help increase access to critical radiology services for Utahns. This is a common sense approach to alleviating the building pressures within Medicare through a growing beneficiary population and increased demand for radiology services. I am pleased to join with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle on this bill once again.” The legislation is supported by over 40 key local and national groups including the American College of Radiology (ACR), the American Registry of Radiologist Technologists (ARRT), American Society of Radiologic Technologists (ASRT) and the Society of Radiology Physician Extenders (SRPE). One Enumclaw, WA radiologist has lauded the legislation as highly beneficial, allowing Medicare Patients “access to the same level of high-quality imaging services that other patients receive.” Background The Medicare Access to Radiology Care Act of 2013 would explicitly recognize RAs as a non-physician Medicare provider and allows Medicare coverage for their services. State law would continue to govern the scope of practice and supervision requirements for RAs, and supervising radiologists would continue to bill and receive payment for RA-performed services. The legislation would also require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a review of the bill’s effect on patient satisfaction and the clinical and operational effectiveness of using RAs, with a report due to Congress on the findings by January 1, 2018.
03.12.2013	Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) applauded Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s release of a draft tax reform proposal aimed at creating a fairer and simpler tax code for small businesses. The reform proposal includes many of the provisions of Rep. Reichert’s S Corporation Modernization Act of 2013 (H.R. 892), introduced by Rep. Reichert in February. “Small businesses play an integral role in our economy and are responsible for more than half the jobs in Washington State and across the country,” said Reichert. “The chairman’s draft will make it easier to start a small business, help small businesses access capital, and lower tax compliance burdens, so that small businesses can do what they do best - grow and create jobs. I look forward to gathering feedback from small businesses in Washington’s 8th District to help ensure that we’re doing everything we can to make sure America has the best possible tax code.” Rep. Reichert has been a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee since 2009 and is chairman of the Human Resources Subcommittee. The small business tax reform draft follows three hearings from the 112th Congress on business related tax issues. Comprehensive tax reform, of which small business tax reform plays an instrumental part, is the overall, stated goal of the Ways and Means Committee for the 113th Congress.
02.28.2013	Washington, DC – Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Ron Kind (WI-03) today introduced the S Corporation Modernization Act (H.R. 892). This tax relief proposal that would make it easier for S corporations to access capital, compete, and hire new workers by modernizing outdated rules that currently stifle their growth. A 2011 independent study revealed tax law dealing with S corporations affects 31 million Americans as S corporations employ one out of four workers in the U.S. private sector. “S corporations and similar businesses are responsible for more than half of the jobs in Washington State and across America,” Rep. Reichert said. “As our economy continues to struggle to regain sound footing, I’m proud to introduce bipartisan legislation to help these proven job creators access the capital needed to grow, compete, and get Americans back to work. Working with the Ways and Means Committee toward comprehensive tax reform, I am committed to supporting these small businesses by advocating for pro-growth tax policies.” “This bill is a commonsense update to the tax code that will give S corporations the ability to grow and prosper especially in this tough economic environment,” Rep. Kind said. “It is critical that we ease the tax burden on our small and family owned businesses who are driving our economic growth. Under this legislation, S corporations will be better able to access credit, invest in their business, and create the good paying jobs that we need.” “Tax reform should seek to make the entire U.S. economy more competitive, not just a subset of large corporations,” stated S Corporation Association Executive Director Brian Reardon. “If you’re going to tackle tax reform, it must include both the corporate and individual tax codes in order to assist all employers. In the face of proposals that would make the majority of America’s employers less competitive, the Reichert-Kind legislation presents a realistic set of reforms that would improve the ability of 4.5 million S corporations to access much-needed capital and increase their hiring capabilities.” Specifically, H.R. 892 would make needed changes to keep S corporations competitive and ensuring continued success of America’s predominant private business model by: · Increasing the ability of S corporations to access much-needed capital; · Modernizing the rules that apply to firms that have selected S corporation status; and · Easing and expanding S corporations’ ability to make charitable donations These reforms would improve the ability of S corporations to respond to the current business environment and remove impediments that prevent them from competing on a level playing field at home in the United States. The 2011 study can be found here.
02.27.2013	Washington, DC – On November 29, 2009, four police officers in Lakewood, Washington were tragically shot and killed as they prepared for the day ahead. Through later investigation, it was discovered that the perpetrator that murdered the policemen was a convicted felon on parole, and that information was not effectively transmitted to the necessary authorities. This week, Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced H.R. 817, the Department of Justice (DOJ) Global Advisory Committee (GAC) Authorization Act, to improve information sharing between all local, state, and federal law enforcement across the country. “As a former cop and sheriff, I know that the more information law enforcement agents have, the better they can do their jobs,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, “This bill will improve communication among members of law enforcement and enhance the security of communities across the country. When the lives of cops and citizens are at stake, law enforcement officers must have all available information at their disposal so that they may effectively serve and protect the well-being of those citizens who count on them every day and to safeguard their colleagues.” This legislation would continue to provide technical and financial support for GAC. Additionally, the bill would require that the Attorney General (AG) reviews information sharing between state, local, and federal law enforcement agencies and issue a report to Congress highlighting GAC’s review and recommendations to improve data interoperability and information sharing policies. “Concerns about public safety have come under the national spotlight in recent months,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “This legislation would help enhance information sharing between all levels of law enforcement, which can only help improve law enforcement officials’ ability to keep our communities safe.” GAC, which consists of over 30 representatives from law enforcement and criminal justice organizations, was established in 1998 and advises the AG on how to improve best practices and information sharing within the law enforcement community. The committee provides a forum to discuss strategies and potential solutions to keep our communities safe.
02.20.2013	Washington, DC – Last week, the House Ways and Means Committee finalized its subcommittee selections for the 113th Congress. U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert is serving as Chairman of the Human Resources Subcommittee and as a member of the Trade Subcommittee. “As Chairman of Human Resources, I will be working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to improve those programs that are designed to help Americans who have fallen on hard times,” said Reichert. “I look forward to leading efforts to ensure those who are able to work have the tools necessary to secure employment, and provide for themselves and their families. In Washington’s 8th district, sustaining and creating jobs for those seeking opportunity goes hand-in-hand with international trade. International trade creates and supports hundreds of thousands of Washington State jobs. Serving on the Trade Subcommittee will help to ensure that Washington farmers, workers, businesses, and services providers, and all American businesses, have access to consumers outside of our borders and can continue to excel in the global marketplace.” “The Committee faces a very busy Congress as we work to make our economy stronger and healthier so families can find good-paying jobs and afford to save and invest for the future,” said Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp. “Establishing the membership for these subcommittees is an important step forward as we pursue an aggressive legislative agenda to make the tax code simpler and fairer; move forward on new opportunities in the global marketplace while holding our trading partners accountable; conduct rigorous oversight – especially as the Administration struggles to implement ObamaCare; and, take action to protect, preserve and prolong the life of our entitlement programs." BackgroundThe House Ways and Means Committee is the oldest committee of the U.S. Congress and is the chief tax-writing committee. It was first established as a select committee in 1789 and became a standing committee in 1802. Rep. Reichert has served on this committee since January of 2009.
02.19.2013	Washington, DC – Last week, Chairman Camp announced the formation of Tax Reform Working Groups. He named Rep. Dave Reichert as Chair of the Charitable/Exempt Organizations group and Rep. John Lewis as Vice-Chair. The working groups will be responsible for compiling feedback from: 1) stakeholders, 2) academics and think tanks, 3) practitioners, 4) the general public, and 5) colleagues in the House of Representatives. “Bipartisan collaboration is essential to developing a real plan for comprehensive tax reform,” said Reichert. “I know Rep. Lewis will be a true asset to this group and I look forward to working with him. The charitable community plays an important and active role in the life of many Americans and we must develop a plan for ensuring that tax exempt status is not abused while making certain that no one who wishes to will be discouraged from giving.” “While most people think only of charities when they hear the term “tax-exempt organizations,” the reality is that these organizations encompass much more than that,” said Lewis. “Charities and foundations are wide in scope and breadth, and they play many roles in our society. I look forward to working with Rep. Reichert, the public, and organizations to develop a complete record of how this sector works today. The Chair will bring a unique law enforcement perspective to this working group, and together we hope to better identify and examine their issues as we move toward tax reform.” The Charitable/Exempt Organization Working Group will deal with all sections of the Internal Revenue Code that deal with charitable giving and tax exempt status.
02.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: "I agree with the President that those who work hard and meet their responsibilities deserve to get ahead and succeed. I agree that we must encourage free enterprise, reward individual initiative, and open the doors of opportunity to all Americans. I agree that economic growth is the key to creating more jobs. "Unfortunately, over the last four years, the President has taken us down a path away from these ideas and principles – ideas and principles which helped make our country great. We cannot spend our way to recovery, we cannot tax our way to recovery, and we cannot continue to go down the same path of outdated, unsuccessful policies that cripple small business and hurt American families. "The President needs to show real leadership and be willing to work not just with his democratic colleagues, but congress as a whole. He needs to move away from political posturing and executive orders, and move toward bipartisan solutions for every American: solutions that protect our seniors and children, ensure educational opportunities for all, and create an economic climate that allows small businesses to flourish. "My hope is that the President decides to work with Congress. The country and the 8th District would benefit. Farmers in Central Washington would benefit from immigration reform to hire the workers they need; high tech companies in King County would benefit from free trade allowing them to sell their goods all over the world; and families, from Eatonville to Chelan, would benefit from a simpler, flatter, fairer tax code that lets hardworking men and women keep more of their money and creates jobs. "We live in a great state and a great nation and we must work together to keep it that way."
02.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus announced that Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) will serve as Caucus Co-Chairs in the 113th Congress. “Dave Reichert has been a real leader on the issue of renewable energy and energy efficiency, working to protect natural resources in his home state of Washington and across the country and providing tax incentives for renewable energy,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “We must continue to build America’s clean energy future, and I know Dave will be a strong partner in that effort.” “It is an honor to serve alongside Chris Van Hollen as Co-Chair of this bipartisan forum on renewable energy and energy efficiency. Chris understands, as do I, that moving closer to energy independence requires that we utilize the multiple resources available to us. By making the most of renewable sources and new technologies, in addition to the natural resources America is blessed with, we will be able to provide for a more stable, secure America.”
01.30.2013	AUBURN, WA - Congressman Dave Reichert officially opened his new office location in Auburn, WA today. Attending the grand opening ceremony were Auburn Mayor Pete Lewis, Auburn city council members, a member of Reichert’s staff and constituents of the 8th District. “I am very pleased to be able to open a satellite office in Auburn,” Reichert said. “This will allow me to work more closely with my constituents in the Southwest area of the 8th District and to better understand how I can best serve them. "I also extend my gratitude to Mayor Lewis and the council members who have been, and are, supporting me so wholeheartedly in this endeavor. I look forward to the continued growth of our working relationship.” The Auburn Office is located at 2 1st Street SE Auburn, WA, 98001
01.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Peter King (NY-02), and John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) introduced legislation to reauthorize and improve the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant program. This program provides for the hiring of law enforcement officials, which includes school resource officers. These officers would assist schools with emergency preparedness and preventative measures plans as well as serve as members of the school community – solving problems before they escalate. “Recent tragedies demand that we provide a well thought out and effective plan to provide for the safety and security of families in our schools and communities,” Rep. Reichert, Co-Chairman of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, said. “Having dedicated 33 years of my life to keeping communities safe working in the Sheriff’s office in King County, WA, I know that the law enforcement community understands and is committed to this task. This legislation would support them in their efforts by providing resources for the tools they need to do their jobs. Today, I am proud to join with my colleagues to advocate for these programs and the people that put their lives on the line every day to keep us all safe.” "Our brave men and women in uniform put their lives on the line day in and day out keeping our communities safe," said Rep. Pascrell, Co-Chairman of the House Law Enforcement Caucus. "As local police departments face increasing budget constraints, we need to ensure the safety of our communities does not suffer. The equation is simple - the fewer cops we have on the street, the higher the crime rate. There are over 50,000 fewer police officers on the streets today than there were before this economic crisis began, and that is unacceptable. I will continue to fight to ensure the COPS Hiring Program is authorized and well funded so that our communities can meet their unique public safety needs, including the hiring of school resource officers to keep our kids safe at school." “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line for us on a daily basis; they should not be placed in further danger due to short-staffing and budget cuts at the state and local level,” said Rep. King. “This legislation is essential to ensuring our community law enforcement receives the adequate funding it needs to secure the streets and protect our citizens.” “I support the COPS Program wholeheartedly, and this bill will make it even stronger at a time when it is needed more than ever as state and local governments are facing severe budget restrictions. Since its inception in the Clinton Administration, the COPS Program has funded the hiring of more than 124,000 state and local police officers and sheriff’s deputies in communities across America. We must reaffirm our commitment to a program that hires more officers and creates jobs,” Rep. Conyers said. “Hiring more officers and sheriff’s deputies will help make us safer, particularly if they are hired as part of comprehensive community policing programs that work not just to investigate crime, but to prevent it from happening in the first place.” The COPS Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2013 (H.R. 421) would reauthorize and codify the Community Oriented Policing Services or COPS office within the Department of Justice. The bill would also expand current grant opportunities offered by the office to include the TROOPS-TO-COPS program providing for the hiring of former members of the Armed Services and a technology grant program focused on crime prevention. This bipartisan legislation is supported by the Fraternal Order of Police and Sergeants Benevolent Association.
01.24.2013	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA8) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) reintroduced their Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act along with cosponsors Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA1). This legislation would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “Representing a state that is home to tremendous natural beauty and many recreation enthusiasts is truly an honor. That’s why I am proud to reintroduce this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Reichert, Senator Cantwell and Congresswoman DelBene to protect and expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness,” said Senator Patty Murray. “I am committed to making sure that this pristine environment is preserved as a legacy for generations to come.” “Washington State is instantly recognizable thanks to our unmatched landscapes. The lines of the Cascade and Olympic mountain ranges, the clear waters of our many lakes and rivers, and Mount Rainier towering above all, serve as constant reminders of the natural paradise Washingtonians call home,” said Reichert. “An expanded Alpine Lakes Wilderness builds on Washington’s strong bipartisan tradition of protecting our precious resources and preserving recreational opportunities. I am proud to continue this effort with Senators Murray and Cantwell, and to be joined by Congresswoman DelBene. Our legislation provides an opportunity to protect important wildlife habitats, existing outdoor opportunities, and local economies that rely on both. We must continue to work together to preserve our natural heritage for the generations to come.” “Just 45 minutes from Seattle, Alpine Lakes is a tremendous resource for our region,” said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. “It’s also a part of the rich quality of life that allows us to compete for the best talent in the country. Preserving this wilderness is critical to ensuring a clean water supply and protecting wildlife, and it enhances recreational opportunities and contributes to the local economy. I look forward to moving this bill forward in the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and working with Senator Murray to preserve the Alpine Lakes wilderness for future generations.” “The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness is already one of the most beautiful and ecologically significant stretches of natural lands in the nation. What makes it even more unique is its proximity to major urban population centers, making it an important part of why living in the Pacific Northwest is so special,” said DelBene. “I’m honored to join Senator Murray, Senator Cantwell and Congressman Reichert in their bipartisan efforts to expand and protect these critically important wild lands. This proposed expansion would further protect critical fish and wildlife habitat, water quality and some of the best outdoor recreational areas in the country.” The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the new Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these 21,000 acres of public land into wilderness has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
01.23.2013	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted in favor of H.R. 325 – the No Budget, No Pay Act. “The Senate has repeatedly failed to pass a budget for not one, but four, years” Reichert said. “Every hard-working American understands that they earn their pay by doing their job. The Senate, by refusing to do their job, has not earned their pay. Passing legislation that withholds Congressional salaries if both houses of Congress do not pass a budget only makes sense. We cannot serve the people if we put ourselves above them and refuse to be held accountable.” Click the link below to watch Rep. Reichert’s floor speech preceding the passage of the bill. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8bcR6RfC3s&feature=youtu.be
01.21.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after attending President Barack Obama’s second inauguration: “Today’s inauguration of President Barack Obama is a symbol of our freedom and peaceful democracy, reaffirming the strength of our Constitution. “Our country is facing great challenges and we must work together to provide opportunities and prosperity for all Americans. We must find common ground to move our country forward, stop the political posturing and do what is right for the American people. “I am committed to working across the aisle with Members of Congress and President Obama so we can make sure that our country’s potential is allowed to flourish and put Americans back to work.”
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert was selected to be the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee. “I am honored to serve as Chairman of this important Subcommittee which oversees key human service programs,” said Reichert. “I entered public service because I wanted to answer the call to protect and serve those most vulnerable and help build a better America in which families are able to provide a successful future for themselves and their children. “As Chairman, I look forward to leading the effort to improve these programs designed to help Americans who have fallen on difficult times. As the oldest of seven kids growing up in a home of scarce means, I ran away on several occasions. There were times I attended high school out of my car in order to escape difficult family circumstances. Yet, there were those along the way who prevented me from falling through the cracks. I know what it’s like to struggle, and I know the vital role that hope plays when trying to find a pathway to a better tomorrow. As former Sheriff of King County, Washington, and now, as Chairman of the Human Resources Subcommittee, I am humbled by the opportunity to continue my work protecting those in need from also not falling through the cracks. “The best way to help Americans put food on their table and keep a roof over their heads is to get them back on their feet and back to work. This will be one of the Subcommittee’s primary goals. We need to create an environment that promotes solid job creation. “In America, the capacity to improve our circumstances and provide our children with opportunities that surpass even our greatest imagination is the essence of the American dream and the heart of American exceptionalism. As Chairman, I take seriously the responsibility to reform, modernize, and cut waste within assistance programs to ensure Americans are able to fulfill their potential and take advantage of the opportunities that define American greatness. I am proud to continue the fight I started in the King County Sheriff’s Department to defend our most vulnerable and ensure their protection." The Human Resources Subcommittee of the Committee on Ways and Means has jurisdiction over the public assistance provisions of the Social Security Act, including temporary assistance for needy families, child care, child and family services, child support, foster care, adoption, supplemental security income, and social services, among other forms of assistance. The jurisdiction of the Subcommittee also includes the federal-State unemployment insurance program, including the federal programs for extended and emergency unemployment benefits.
01.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Doc Hastings (R-WA) applaud the United States Trade Representative for requesting consultations at the World Trade Organization with Indonesia over regulations impacting the export of fresh fruit and vegetables from the U.S. to Indonesia. This request represents the first stage in the formal World Trade Organization dispute resolution process. “I appreciate the continued engagement of the U.S. Trade Representative in requesting consultations on an issue vital to American growers,” said Reichert. “Jobs here at home depend on the ability to sell to critical markets like Indonesia. Regulations that serve only to restrict such access must be addressed.” “The Indonesian measures that are the subject of the USTR consultation request are unfair, lack a basis in science, and are seriously hurting growers in Washington and other states,” said McDermott. “I am pleased that USTR will formally be calling Indonesia to account for them. I hope these consultations are successful at resolving the problems. But if they are not, USTR should be resolute in continuing onto the next steps in the dispute settlement process.” "I commend USTR for pursuing dispute settlement within the WTO over Indonesia's new regulations that have placed Central Washington growers on an uneven playing field with their Indonesian competitors," said Hastings. "Washington state is the most trade-dependent state in the nation, and it is essential to our economy that we hold our trading partners accountable for fair trade policies." Indonesia has consistently been one of the top five importers of Washington state apples. In 2010, the country was a $57 million market for Pacific Northwest apples, pears and cherries. The regulations at issue were implemented by the Indonesian government last year and impose burdensome licensing requirements for all imported fresh fruit and vegetables, serving as an effective barrier to U.S. exports. In August, Reichert, McDermott, and Hastings led a bipartisan group of 15 Members of the House of Representatives in writing a letter to the Indonesian Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Trade requesting that they reconsider these regulations that would make it more difficult to export U.S. fresh fruits and vegetables to this important market. Previously, Hastings and Reichert led a group of 21 lawmakers in June encouraging USTR to use all available resources to encourage Indonesia to rescind these regulations and a proposed closure of the Port of Jakarta to horticultural products. Reps. McDermott and Burton, co-chairs of the Congressional Indonesia Caucus, also submitted a letter to Indonesian authorities in June urging quick resolution of the issues.
01.08.2013	Redmond, WA – This afternoon, Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) honored the centennial anniversary of the City of Redmond. They presented Redmond Mayor John Marchione and members of the Redmond City Council with a joint Statement to the Record as well as a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol on December 31, 2012, the date of Redmond’s centennial. “I am grateful for this opportunity to recognize and applaud the City of Redmond’s achievements over the last one hundred years,” said Reichert. “Their success is a true lesson in the importance of community involvement and entrepreneurship. I wish them another century of prosperity.” “Over the last 100 years, Redmond has evolved from a small logging town into a vibrant urban center, home to some of the most innovative and prominent technology companies in the world,” said DelBene. “I look forward to working with Mayor Marchione and all of Redmond’s City Council to continue to build on the city’s rich history and helping it continue to thrive and prosper into it’s second century.”
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Legislation sponsored by Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-8), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, and Senators Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Chris Coons of Delaware was signed into law as part of the Defense Authorization Act. The new law would allow federal law enforcement officers who acted under their official duties and charged with a crime in state court an opportunity to petition to have the agent’s case heard before a federal court. “The first priority of law enforcement officers is the safety of their community. As a former Sheriff, I know that this is true for officers on and off the job,” Reichert said. “With the signing of this bill, these brave men and women who sacrifice so much for their communities will receive the same protections both on and off duty.” "This legislation will allow federal agents to protect Americans, whether they are on or off duty. Our federal law enforcement agents are highly trained professionals who often go above and beyond what is required of them – and put themselves in harm's way in the process. They deserve our gratitude," said Pascrell. "I am proud to help advance this bipartisan legislation on behalf of dedicated federal agents throughout the country who work to keep us safe." “Taxpayers train federal agents to protect and serve the American public. They are expected to be ‘on-call’ at all times. To think that they would have to stand by while a victim suffers violent acts in their presence to protect themselves from being sued is contrary to the oath they take and is a waste of taxpayer funded training,” Grassley said. “This new law will help make our communities safer and help those who are sworn to guard and serve the public.” “When our law enforcement officers act bravely to stop a violent crime, they have earned our gratitude,” said Senator Chris Coons, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and a co-chair of the Senate Law Enforcement Caucus. “Now that the Officer Safety Act is the law of the land, we can be sure federal agents have access to a fair court process if they ever need it.” The Officer Safety Act of 2012 is modeled after the Good Samaritan Act, but is narrower, more restrictive, and provides no liability protection. The bill does not provide immunity to federal law enforcement officers, but simply allows for case removal to federal court where the officer will be required to defend his or her actions. In addition, it doesn’t infringe upon states’ rights, as they retain the same rights that have existed since the early 1800’s. Specifically, the Officer Safety Act of 2012: · allows a federal law enforcement agent, who stops a violent crime while off-duty and is indicted in a state court for those actions, to petition for the state criminal prosecution against him to be removed to a federal court, and · clarifies the “color of law” prong required in the removal process, as courts have invited Congress to clarify. The bill was supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Federal Bureau of Investigation Agents Association, and the National Border Patrol Council. The bill text can be found by clicking here.
01.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) applauded Senate passage of the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012 (H.R. 6014), a bipartisan bill he introduced with Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to encourage the establishment of DNA collection processes. The House of Representatives passed this legislation on December 18, 2012, and the Senate passed the bill on December 28, 2012. The bill now awaits the president’s signature. The Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act, or Katie’s Law, is named for Katie Sepich, a 22 year old woman who was brutally raped and murdered in New Mexico in 2003. As the result of a DNA match in the national Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), police discovered her attacker three years later in 2006. “With 33 years of experience in law enforcement, I can attest to the importance of DNA evidence,” said Reichert. “This bill aids law enforcement officers in their criminal investigations, protecting both the community and the innocent. It was my honor to work with Katie’s parents, Jayann and David Sepich, in the development of this bill. The bill supports the efforts of law enforcement in ensuring that tragedies like the senseless murder of Katie never happen again.” “We are so grateful for the support of our primary sponsors, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA), Rep. David Reichert (WA) and Senator Charles Schumer (NY) who worked so tirelessly to support this bill and see it enacted,” said Mrs. Sepich. “We are further humbled by other US Representatives and Senators who helped to champion this cause, including Reps. Steve Pearce (NM) and Scott Tipton (CO), New Mexico’s US Senators (Bingaman and Udall), and numerous others. And without a doubt, we would not be standing here today if not for Governor Susana Martinez who has been a tireless advocate, who deserves special thanks for her efforts.” Katie’s Law gives states the opportunity to apply for grants from the Department of Justice for the establishment of DNA collection processes that provide for the collection of DNA from individuals arrested for or charged with certain crimes. These resources afford critical support for states in the first year of implementing such a process and do so without the authorization of new spending. Also, this grant funding is contingent upon a state’s creation of a method for handling requests for the expungement of DNA records and the publication of it. Background: A previous version of Katie’s Law passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support in the 111th Congress. Congressman Reichert served as an original cosponsor of the previous version of Katie’s Law as well - championing this issue in both the 111th and 112th Congresses. His support is based on his law enforcement experience, including his role as the lead investigator of The Green River Task Force where DNA evidence provided invaluable.
01.03.2013	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement today, shortly after being sworn in as a Member of the 113th Congress: “Today I renewed my oath of office to serve the people of Washington’s new 8th District in the 113th Congress,” Reichert said. “While the district boundaries have changed, my commitment to those I represent has not. I am honored to represent this beautiful and diverse district crossing the Cascade Mountains, spanning from Mt. Rainier to Lake Chelan. “There are many challenges that lie ahead in the 113th Congress. We cannot let partisan politics get in the way of ideas and legislation that will put our country back on the path to prosperity. I will continue to work in a bipartisan way to find common sense solutions so we can put Americans back to work and get our nation’s fiscal house in order.” BACKGROUND Congressman Reichert was sworn in as a Member of the 113th Congress on the afternoon of Thursday, January 3. Reichert is serving his fifth term as the Representative from the Eighth Congressional District of Washington.
12.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded House passage of the Officer Safety Act, (H.R. 4309), a bipartisan bill he authored with colleague Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-8), his co-chair on the House Law Enforcement Caucus. The bill, introduced in March, would allow off-duty federal law enforcement officers who intervene to protect or assist an individual in danger to be considered as having acted under the “color of office.” Thereby, allowing officers charged with a crime in state court under these circumstances an opportunity to petition to have their case heard before a federal court. “As a former Sheriff I know that for law enforcement officers there is no ‘off duty.’ Every day, on and off the job, they risk their lives to protect the innocent. We owe these brave men and women the assurance that they can continue to focus on serving the American people at all times knowing their rights are protected.” Reichert said. "Our federal law enforcement agents are highly trained professionals who put themselves in harm's way to protect our communities each and every day. This legislation will allow these brave federal agents continue to protect Americans whether they are on or off duty," said Rep. Pascrell. "I am proud to help advance this bipartisan legislation on behalf of dedicated federal agents throughout the country who work to keep us safe." The Officer Safety Act of 2012 is modeled after the Good Samaritan Act, but is more restrictive and provides no liability protection. The bill does not provide immunity to federal law enforcement officers, but simply allows for case removal to federal court where the officer will be required to defend his or her actions. The bill also doesn’t infringe upon states’ rights, as they retain the same due process rights that have existed since the early 1800’s. Specifically, the Officer Safety Act of 2012 allows a federal law enforcement agent who stops a violent crime while off-duty and is indicted in a state court for those actions, to petition for the state criminal prosecution against him to be removed to a federal court, and clarifies the “color of law” prong required in the removal process. Background: This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Federal Bureau of Investigation Agents Association, and the National Border Patrol Council. Senator Grassley and Senator Coons introduced the Senate companion legislation in March of 2012. During Senate consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act, Senator Grassley offered the legislation as an amendment. This amendment passed by unanimous consent on November 30, 2012 and was included in the conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the House today.
12.18.2012	Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Jim McDermott (D-WA) have introduced The Personal Holding Company (PHC) Tax Parity and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 6660) in the House of Representatives. This legislation would reform the Personal Holding Company rules, which were first enacted under the Revenue Act of 1934, and would promote economic growth while simultaneously raising revenue. “I am proud to introduce H.R. 6660. It illustrates that good, bipartisan legislation can still be created in Washington, D.C.,” Congressman Reichert said. “This bill removes an outdated surtax, raises revenue, and is an example of how bipartisan tax reform can help companies grow and create jobs.” Congressman McDermott said, “As we move forward with tax reform, it’s critical that we carefully examine and update the tax code to address the realities of international business in today’s global economy. This bill addresses an outdated provision dating back to the 1930’s and is a good example of how thoughtful reforms can raise revenue and promote economic growth.” H.R. 6660 would exclude Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) dividends from the definition of PHC income. By doing this, the tax code would be updated in such a way that supports economic growth and increased commerce. Estimates by the Joint Committee on Taxation reveal the legislation would raise $10 million in revenue over ten years. Background: Reps. Dave Reichert and Jim McDermott are members of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, the chief tax-writing committee of the United States Congress.
11.29.2012	Global Advisory Committee Provides Forum to Help Keep Communities Safe Three years ago today, Washington state faced a tragedy when four police officers were shot and killed as they prepared for the day ahead. Investigation later revealed that the individual who murdered the officers was a convicted felon on parole and that relevant information was not effectively transmitted to the proper authorities. Today, Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced the Department of Justice (DOJ) Global Advisory Committee (GAC) Authorization Act to improve information sharing between all local, state, and federal law enforcement across the country. “As a former cop and sheriff, I know that the more information law enforcement agents have, the better they can do their jobs,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, “This bill will improve communication among members of law enforcement and enhance the security of communities across the country. When the lives of cops and citizens are at stake, law enforcement officers must have all available information at their disposal so that they may effectively serve and protect the well-being of those citizens who count on them every day and to safeguard their colleagues.” This legislation would continue to provide technical and financial support for GAC. The bill would also add a new requirement that the Attorney General (AG) issue a report to Congress detailing GAC’s review and their suggestions to improve data interoperability and information sharing policies. "Information sharing between all levels of law enforcement plays a critical role in keeping our nation safe," Smith said. "This bill can only help move that process forward." GAC, which consists of over 30 representatives from law enforcement and criminal justice organizations, advises the AG on how to improve best practices and information sharing within the law enforcement community. The committee provides a forum to discuss strategies and potential solutions to keep our communities safe.
11.28.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) today announced House passage of H.R. 5788 which officially designates the post office at 103 Center Street West in Eatonville, WA the “National Park Ranger Margaret Anderson Post Office.” The legislation was introduced by Rep. Reichert, formerly a police officer and Sheriff of King County, WA and the Co-Chair of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, to honor Park Ranger Anderson who was shot and killed in the line of duty on January 1, 2012. She made the ultimate sacrifice to protect the public and her Park Service colleagues. Her actions establishing a roadblock within Mt. Rainier National Park prevented the suspect from progressing into the popular tourist destination. “Margaret Anderson was a devoted public servant, law enforcement officer, wife, and mother,” said Rep. Reichert. “It seems only appropriate that there be a lasting memorial in the town where she served so bravely. This post office will publicly honor her heroism and sacrifice. It will also stand as a reminder of all those who put their lives on the line every day for their fellow citizens.” In addition to serving as a park ranger, Margaret Anderson was trained in Emergency Medical Services and volunteered with the Eatonville Fire Department. She is remembered as a devoted professional – highly respected and eager to serve. "The National Park Service is grateful to Congressman Reichert, the US Postal Service, and the American Public for honoring fallen U.S. Park Ranger Margaret Anderson by the naming of the Post Office in Eatonville, WA after her,” said Chuck Young, Chief Ranger at Mount Rainier National Park. “Ranger Anderson paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty while protecting members of the public, other park and concession staff, and the values of Mount Rainier National Park on Jan. 1. Her courage and dedication is representative of the men and women of the National Park Service, and of the many other public safety agencies throughout this country, that serve to protect the public day in and day out. Ranger Anderson will not be forgotten." Click here to view Rep. Reichert's floor statement this afternoon.
10.31.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA) and Doc Hastings (R-WA) have led a group of 15 Members of the House of Representatives in writing a letter to the Indonesian Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Trade requesting that they reconsider two new regulations that would make it more difficult to export U.S. fresh fruits and vegetables to this important market. “I am committed to ensuring that American growers are able to access critical markets,” said Reichert. “When regulations threaten this access, we must engage with our trading partners to quickly and effectively resolve these barriers to trade.” “Indonesia must be a responsible player in the international arena,” said McDermott, “And, this means rescinding these onerous, non-science based restrictions on U.S. horticultural exports that could cripple our trade with Indonesia and hurt our growers.” “I firmly believe that our trading partners should be held accountable for unfair policies that place United States growers at a competitive disadvantage,” said Hastings. “Indonesia is a top market for Washington state apples, pears and cherries, and these regulations could severely limit the ability for our growers to continue to ship to this important market with no scientific basis.” Indonesia has consistently been one of the top five importers of Washington state apples. In 2010, the country was a $57 million market for Pacific Northwest apples, pears and cherries. These regulations, which were proposed by the Indonesian government earlier this year, would impose burdensome licensing, labeling and pre-shipment requirements for all imported fresh fruit and vegetables and could effectively serve as a barrier for U.S. exports. Reichert and Hastings led a bipartisan group of 21 lawmakers in June in encouraging USTR to use all available resources to encourage Indonesia to rescind these regulations and a proposed closure of the Port of Jakarta to horticultural products. Reps. McDermott and Burton, co-chairs of the Congressional Indonesia Caucus, also submitted a letter to Indonesian authorities in June urging quick resolution of the issues. After successful engagement from the United States Trade Representative and the State Department, Indonesia agreed in June to exempt the United States from the port closure and delay these regulations. In addition to Reichert, McDermott and Hastings, the letter is signed by Adam Smith (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Norm Dicks (D-WA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Lois Capps (D-CA), and Dan Lungren (R-CA). The text of the letter follows: Dear Ministers Suswono and Wirjawan: We write to raise our serious concerns with Ministry of Trade Regulation 60/2012 and the corresponding Ministry of Agriculture Regulation 60/2012, which, if implemented as proposed, could impose significant conditions on horticultural imports and effectively restrict safe, high-quality U.S. products from reaching the Indonesian market. Not only do the scope and applicability of these regulations remain unclear but we also have concerns about the purpose of these regulations and whether Indonesian producers will be held to the same standards. These regulations are extraordinarily complex with multiple licensing and approval requirements, quantitative limits on imports, labeling requirements, pre-shipment inspection requirements and severe penalties for companies that make minor or inadvertent errors in their reporting requirement. In fact, the surveyor verification requirement alone could well halt shipments to Indonesia. We believe that the regulations will place considerable burdens on U.S. exporters, effectively serving as a barrier to trade, and may also violate Indonesia’s World Trade Organization obligations. Concern over horticultural import regulations enacted by the Indonesian government is not a new issue. We were recently able to successfully address a similar issue relating to the closure of the Jakarta port to U.S. and other countries’ horticultural exports. We appreciate the Indonesian government’s recognition of the high quality of U.S. horticultural products, which led to the exclusion of U.S. products from the port restriction. Unfortunately, the uncertainty and confusion surrounding the implementation of Ministry of Trade Regulation 60/2012 and Ministry of Agriculture Regulation 60/2012 have undermined that progress, causing some U.S. producers to stop exporting their products to Indonesia. This is detrimental to both of our countries, as exporters lose access to a critical market for U.S. produce, and Indonesians lose access to the high quality U.S. fruit that they have come to demand. We urge you to engage with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and reconsider these damaging policies. Transparency and open dialogue between the U.S. and Indonesia is vital as these discussions move forward. We look forward to a swift resolution of these issues and a continued expanding trade relationship between the U.S. and Indonesia.
10.17.2012	Representative Dave Reichert sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Douglas Shulman on Wednesday, demanding that the IRS provide information on its implementation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), specifically in regard to recently-negotiated intergovernmental agreements (IGAs). FATCA imposes new reporting requirements on foreign financial institutions, forcing them to share certain information with the IRS about their U.S.-owned accounts or face up to a 30-percent withholding tax. In the letter, Rep. Reichert voices concerns about its impact on U.S. financial institutions’ international competitiveness, the impact on the sale of treasury bonds, the potential avoidance of foreign investment in the U.S. and the effectiveness FATCA’s implementation. “Whether or not we agree on the approach that FATCA prescribes - which now allows the IRS to enforce the disclosure of personal private information about US persons from foreign companies – it is now clear that the implementation process of FATCA involves the IRS acting with an implied license to determine a new direction for global tax policy,” wrote Reichert. “I have talked with constituents, had discussions with international companies who are looking to comply, and many who wonder how successful these new policies will be in achieving their intended consequences.” In the letter, Reichert, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, asks Commissioner Shulman to provide information on how the IRS is taking into consideration the potential effects on U.S. businesses and persons when negotiating IGAs, and asks the IRS to provide information on these considerations as Congress looks toward comprehensive tax reform. ### Downloads » Full FATCA Letter
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 13, 2012 – The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-8) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 112th Congress. “I am honored to receive this award,” said Rep. Reichert. “Small businesses are the engines of the American economy and will fuel our economic recovery. I am proud to support them by consistently voting against tax hikes and to lessen the heavy burden of over-regulation so that small businesses can flourish and create new jobs.” NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Rep. Reichert for “standing for small business.” In presenting the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, “Small-business owners pay close attention to how their lawmakers vote on the issues affecting their businesses and employees and stand by those who stand for them.” “The record shows that Rep. Reichert is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” In all, NFIB will present Guardian awards to 245 Representatives who voted favorably on key small business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 112th Congress. ###
09.12.2012	Rep. Reichert with Angel Dianne Schultheis Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave. Reichert congratulates Dianne Schultheis as a 2012 Angel in AdoptionTM for her outstanding advocacy of foster care issues. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which orchestrates the Angels in Adoption™ program, honored Schultheis, along with more than 100 Angels, at an awards ceremony on September 11 and gala event in Washington, D.C., on September 12. “Diane Shultheis is a fierce advocate for youth in her community,” said Reichert. “Working as a Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) in the King County, Washington court system, she has made helping, protecting and serving children her life’s passion. King County, Washington State and all of society will feel the positive effects of her work for generations. She is truly a treasure to our community.” Barbara James, Executive Director for WaCASA stated, “Dianne’s commitment to Washington’s most vulnerable citizens, our nearly 10,000 dependent children, is unwavering. Her leadership is inspiring to all she touches. No doubt her dream of a CASA for every child who needs one, will one day become a reality.” CASA works to ensure abused and neglected children are protected throughout their time in the legal system. CASA was originally founded in Seattle in 1977, after King County Judge David Soukup felt there lacked adequate legal representation of children’s long-term interests. Nearly 35 years after its conception, the organization now has over 75,000 volunteers, serving nearly 250,000 dependent children nationally. The Angels in Adoption™ program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. CCAI does not receive any government funding and they rely on the generous support of foundations, corporations, and individuals to accomplish their mission. ###Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave. Reichert congratulates Dianne Schultheis as a 2012 Angel in AdoptionTM for her outstanding advocacy of foster care issues. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which orchestrates the Angels in Adoption™ program, honored Schultheis, along with more than 100 Angels, at an awards ceremony on September 11 and gala event in Washington, D.C., on September 12. “Diane Shultheis is a fierce advocate for youth in her community,” said Reichert. “Working as a Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) in the King County, Washington court system, she has made helping, protecting and serving children her life’s passion. King County, Washington State and all of society will feel the positive effects of her work for generations. She is truly a treasure to our community.” Barbara James, Executive Director for WaCASA stated, “Dianne’s commitment to Washington’s most vulnerable citizens, our nearly 10,000 dependent children, is unwavering. Her leadership is inspiring to all she touches. No doubt her dream of a CASA for every child who needs one, will one day become a reality.” CASA works to ensure abused and neglected children are protected throughout their time in the legal system. CASA was originally founded in Seattle in 1977, after King County Judge David Soukup felt there lacked adequate legal representation of children’s long-term interests. Nearly 35 years after its conception, the organization now has over 75,000 volunteers, serving nearly 250,000 dependent children nationally. The Angels in Adoption™ program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. CCAI does not receive any government funding and they rely on the generous support of foundations, corporations, and individuals to accomplish their mission. ###
09.11.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement on the anniversary of the attacks of September 11th, 2001: “Eleven years ago, America and the world were forever altered by the horrific attacks of September 11th. While scores were injured and 3000 people lost, America’s spirit was unshaken. “As we mark this solemn occasion, we do not need urging to remember the horror of that day: We will not and cannot ever forget it. What we must remember is that on that day, just as in the days before and after, countless men and women were ready and willing to stand up for us, fight for us and protect us. “So as we mourn those who we have lost, let us also pay tribute to that great American spirit and all the men and women who have sacrificed for it, fought for it and continue shape it. Let us, as one, remember not the worst of times, but the best and remind ourselves how blessed and grateful we are to live in the best nation on earth.” ###
08.31.2012	“As we head into the Labor Day weekend to spend time with friends and family, it’s important to pay tribute to the men and women who built this country. Their contribution has inspired generations of Americans to build in that same spirit. “In today’s economy, however, entrepreneurs, innovators and small business owners are taking an even bigger leap of faith in the future of our nation’s economy. As I return to Washington, D.C, I will continue working with my colleagues to restore confidence to business owners. By reducing regulations, cutting red tape and creating a climate of certainty, we can get Washingtonians and Americans back to work in the greatest country in the world.”
08.14.2012	Issaquah, WA, Aug 14 - Dave Reichert was presented with the 2012 Standing Up for America’s Seniors award by RetireSafe, a national, nonpartisan grassroots organization that advocates on behalf of America's seniors, for Reichert’s outstanding leadership on behalf of seniors. Criteria for the award included: Exhibiting outstanding leadership in Congress to protect Medicare, which is critical to millions of American seniors and their families. Ensuring access to affordable prescription medicines for seniors through the Medicare Part D program. Demonstrating a continued commitment to protect the doctor/patient relationship for seniors. Preserving a vast selection of health care options for seniors so that they may choose the best plan for themselves and their families. Representing senior constituents with individual issues before government agencies so that they receive the benefits and services they have earned. Supporting government services and necessary funding for senior programs in the Representative’s district. Reichert has received the award for his unwavering efforts to protect the health benefits and security of Washington’s seniors and citizens with disabilities. Reichert was presented the award during a ceremony at his Congressional district office in Issaquah, WA. “I’m honored to receive the “Standing up For Seniors Award,” said Reichert. “I feel privileged to serve Washington’s seniors in Congress by improving and strengthening Medicare. I will continue to do everything in my power so that seniors and retirees are able to keep the affordable and efficient health care that they want and need.” “Seniors have a true friend and leader in Dave Reichert, who is always fighting for a strong Medicare, affordable medicines, and preserving health care choices. He has definitely earned this award and deserves our thanks,” said Thair Phillips, President of RetireSafe. About RetireSafe: Congressman Dave Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments for health care, health delivery systems, and health research. RetireSafe is national, nonprofit, nonpartisan grassroots organization that advocates and educates on behalf of America's seniors on issues regarding Social Security, Medicare, health and financial well-being. ###
07.31.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) applauded passage of H.R. 1627, “The Honoring America’s Veterans Act,” which includes the “Housing for Heroes” bill language (H.R. 5830), which Rep. Reichert introduced in May with Rep. Tim Walz. The Reichert-Walz bill to combat veterans’ homelessness is endorsed by multiple state and national veterans’ organizations, including the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, American Veterans, the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans and the National Alliance to End Homelessness. “Housing for Heroes” ensures that more non-profits serving veterans have the ability to compete for federal resources through the Veterans’ Affairs Grant and Per Diem Program (GPD), designated to combat veterans’ homelessness. This fix will allow these non-profits to put roofs over the heads of those who have risked their lives for our freedom and now find themselves homeless. “After everything that our veterans have done and continue to do for our country, it is our duty to take away as many roadblocks as possible so that they’re able to achieve full and healthy lives when they return home,” said Rep. Reichert. “I introduced this bill because it’s a solution that will enable more organizations to take advantage of already existing grants that provide our homeless veterans with housing. Our veterans deserve safe and healthy places to live. I’m proud that we can help make the process of housing them simpler and widely accessible. It’s what we should do.” It is estimated that 67,495 veterans are homeless, a disproportionate share of the population. According to the National Survey of Homeless Veterans, conducted by the Department of Veterans Affairs, homeless veterans report being homeless significantly longer than their non-veteran counterparts and suffer a higher incidence of various health conditions. The American Legion’s National Commander Fang Wong wrote in support of Congressman Reichert’s efforts to combat veterans’ homelessness, “On behalf of the nation’s largest veterans service organization, the 2.4 million members of The American Legion, I express support for H.R. 5830, the Housing for Heroes Act.” Wong continued, “The American Legion has long been committed to supporting policies and programs that will provide housing and other resources to meet the needs of homeless veterans.” “Our veterans fight a war abroad. Why should they have to fight another war at home? Over 67,000 veterans are homeless on any given night,” said Sharon H. Lee, Executive Director of the Low Income Housing Institute of Seattle, WA. “We applaud Congressman Reichert as his bill is sorely needed and will allow more homeless veterans to benefit from the V.A.’s largest housing initiative, the Grant and Per Diem Program.“ “The importance of this bill on the impact of both old and new veterans is enormous,” said Joe Ingram, Executive Director of Vets Edge and himself a formerly homeless veteran. “It builds a foundation for rebuilding veterans’ faith in their government.” “The VA Grant Per Diem program is a great program that supports the efforts of veterans who are struggling to live stable fulfilling lives,” said Rick Friedhoff, Executive Director of Compass Housing Alliance in Seattle, WA. “Legislation that improves the workability of this great program would benefit veterans and communities seeking to provide clean, safe and affordable housing for veterans, their families and people in need.” The encompassing “Honoring America’s Veterans Act” is a comprehensive, bipartisan, bicameral legislative package to provide for the needs of veterans, their families and survivors through improving healthcare, housing, education and memorial services. Floor speech by Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health Chairwoman Representative Ann Marie Buerkle regarding the contribution of Rep. Reichert and importance of his bill can be found is here. (3:16) The endorsement letter from The American Legion can be found here. ###
07.26.2012	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and the President’s Export Council, today commended the committee approval of legislation to extend permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to Russia and Moldova: “Granting Russia and Moldova PNTR is a vital step forward in increasing exports and sustaining American jobs,” said Reichert. “This status will allow U.S. businesses to fully benefit from the membership of Russia and Moldova in the World Trade Organization. As the author of Moldova PNTR, I am especially pleased that the legislation marked up today includes the long overdue graduation of Moldova from the Jackson-Vanik amendment. Fostering our relationship with Moldova will promote trade between our nations and encourage Moldovans to continue ongoing reforms that will create a lasting and thriving democracy and economy.” Ambassador of the Republic of Moldova to the USA, Canada and Mexico, Igor Munteanu, added the following: “The elimination of JVA is long-expected progress and will foster democratic development of my country and open up new and promising avenues for bilateral cooperation with USA,” said Munteanu. “ I applaud the energetic support of our good friends in the US House of Representatives and Senate, the Moldova- USA Caucus and other American friends. We thank all of you for the excellent support received at this stage, and ensure you that Moldova is moving in the right direction as a trustful ally of USA and EU." BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time advocate for free trade, was the author of H.R. 1463, to extend normal trade relations to Moldova. Though Moldova joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, the United States has yet to grant Moldova permanent trade relations status. Russia will join the WTO in August, 2012. In 2011, the U.S. exported $8.3 billion in goods to Russia. Exports to Russia currently support over 1400 jobs and $445 million in Washington state, which ranked 5th in the United States in exports to Russia. ###
07.25.2012	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-8), was recognized today with the “2012 Best of Congress Award” by Corporate Voices for Working Families and Working Mother Media. Only 30 members of Congress – from both sides of the aisle – were celebrated for their outstanding leadership in improving the quality of life for working families. “I’m honored to be chosen to receive the “2012 Best of Congress” award,” said Rep. Reichert. “Throughout my life and career, I’ve seen firsthand the difficulty of balancing work and family life. I recognize the constant struggle of so many people to make family life a priority while working to excel in a beloved career. In my legislative work and the organizations I’ve been fortunate to be a part of, I have always been committed to improving the lives of working families.” “Most people don't realize that our Congressional representatives each set their own policies for the staff they employ,” noted Carol Evans, president of Working Mother Media. “Those who allow their employees flexible work arrangements and paid family leave are leading by example. Working Mother wants all Senators and Representatives to provide exemplary support for their employees and their working mom and dad constituents,” she added. “We are very proud of the 2012 Best of Congress winners!” Rep. Reichert with other awardees Recipients of the 2012 Best of Congress Award are: U.S. Senate o Michael Bennet (CO) o Sherrod Brown (OH) o Robert Casey (PA) o Mike Crapo (ID) o Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) o Kay Bailey Hutchison (TX) o Herbert Kohl (WI) o Patty Murray (WA) U.S. House of Representatives o Tammy Baldwin (WI-2) o Russ Carnahan (MO-3) o Susan Davis (CA-53) o Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) o Jeff Denham (CA-19) o Chaka Fattah (PA-2) o Raul Grijalva (AZ-7) o Carolyn Maloney (NY-25) o Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5) o Kristi Noem (SD-1) o Erik Paulsen (MN-3) o Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) o Dave Reichert (WA-8) o Peter Roskam (IL-6) o C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) o Linda Sanchez (CA-39) o Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) o Adam Smith (WA-9) o Pete Stark (CA-15) o Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) o Lynn Woolsey (CA-6) o John Yarmuth (KY-3) This year’s applicants were judged on several important criteria: Their voting record, sponsorship of legislation, constituent casework, and other activities that demonstrate their commitment to improving the lives of working families. They also were asked to submit employment policies and practices within their own offices that support working parents and flexible workplace options. Applications were reviewed by a bipartisan steering committee co-chaired by Arianna Huffington, President and Editor-in-Chief of The Huffington Post Media Group and the Honorable Jane Swift, CEO of Middlebury Interactive Languages and former Governor of Massachusetts. Other steering committee members are the Honorable Pat Schroeder, former Congresswoman from Colorado and former president and CEO of the Association of American Publishers; Ted Childs, Founder and Principal of Ted Childs, LLC; and Patricia Kempthorne, President of the Twiga Foundation. ###
07.11.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert released the following statement this evening after his vote to repeal the government takeover of health care: “Today’s vote to repeal the health care overhaul was another step in the effort to lower costs, preserve choice, and improve the quality of care for all Americans. I remain committed to removing the harmful aspects of this law – especially the tax increases that threaten American jobs – and replacing them with better, patient-centered solutions that lower health care costs and increase access to care.” ###
06.28.2012	“As a former police officer, I understand the importance of not only bringing criminals to justice, but also for families of the fallen to have answers. The heart of this case is the loss of U.S. Border Patrol Agent, Brian Terry. “The pain that his family has suffered is indescribable. They have lost a beloved son and a father. That pain is exacerbated by the knowledge that he was killed with an American gun. The Terry family deserves answers; today’s vote to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress is about learning the truth about what happened to their son. “Any time a case involves a law enforcement officer, I consider it personal. In this case, Brian Terry was murdered while on patrol in Arizona. Two “Fast and Furious” guns were recovered at the scene. I have had the heartbreaking duty of sitting down with families of victims, and sharing with them the facts of their loved ones’ deaths. While painful, the closure of “knowing” brings with it palpable relief. This is not political theater. This is about justice and this is about preventing future tragedies. Perhaps most importantly, this case is about bringing peace to the family of a fallen officer. “ ###
06.28.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its ruling on the health care law: “While I respect today’s Supreme Court ruling, it is only one more point in the ongoing debate. I remain undeterred in improving health care for all Americans. The government takeover of health care raised taxes and health care costs, restricted access for patients and hurt businesses. Those problems remain and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to continue repealing harmful and expensive provisions of the law and finding common sense, reasonable solutions for Americans to have access to affordable and quality health care."
06.14.2012	Representatives Dave Reichert and Doc Hastings were joined by 19 colleagues in sending a letter to Ambassador Ron Kirk last week. The letter urges the United States Trade Representative to pursue all available resources in maintaining access to the Indonesian market for U.S. fresh produce. “Agriculture is crucial to the economy of Washington state and to that of the entire country. To create and sustain jobs, American growers must be able to compete on a fair playing field to sell in foreign markets such as Indonesia,” said Reichert. “I am pleased to work with the U.S. Trade Representative and my colleagues to resolve this important matter.” The Indonesian Ministries of Agriculture and Trade have proposed new import-licensing requirements and a limit on the number of ports through which fresh produce, including apples, pears and cherries, can enter. Specifically, Indonesia has proposed closing off the Port of Jakarta, which handles 90% of U.S. produce imports into Indonesia, to foreign produce. “Our growers have proven time and again that they are competitive in the global marketplace when given a level playing field,” said Hastings. “The United States must hold our trading partners accountable and fight back against these clearly protectionist policies that are being proposed by Indonesia. As the harvest season begins, our growers need certainty that this important market will remain open.” Indonesia has consistently been one of the top five importers of Washington state apples. In 2010, the country was a $57 million market for Pacific Northwest apples, pears and cherries. This bipartisan letter, written by Reichert and Hastings, urges Ambassador Kirk to use all available resources to prevent Indonesia from implementing the above policies and to provide certainty for U.S. growers in this vital market. In addition to Hastings and Reichert, the letter is signed by Laura Richardson (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Elton Gallegly (R-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Kevin McCarthy (R-WA), Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Daniel Lungren (R-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Mary Bono Mack (R-CA).
06.07.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today voted to pass the Health Care Cost Reduction Act, H.R. 436, which passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support. H.R. 436 repeals two elements of the health care law: the medical device excise tax and the ban prohibiting the use of health-related savings accounts to purchase over-the-counter medicines. The latter is similar to an element in legislation introduced by Rep. Reichert, the Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act. The bill passed today also contains a provision allowing participants to keep unused funds in their Flexible Savings Accounts instead of forfeiting the balance at the end of the year. “Today marks an important step forward in improving health care for all Americans and protecting medical innovation and jobs in the United States. This package of bills returns choices to patients and eliminates job killing taxes on companies.” The over-the-counter limitation applies to any American with a health-related savings account, including a Health Savings Account (HSA), Flexible Savings Arrangement (FSA), Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) or Medical Savings Account (MSA). 33 million Americans are in families with FSAs and 13.5 million Americans are currently enrolled in an HSA. “The ban on purchasing over-the-counter medications limits Americans’ choices to using more expensive options such as seeking a prescription or suffering needlessly by going without any treatment for common ailments, ” said Reichert. “I regularly hear from constituents who are confused as to why their health care plan has changed for the worse after they were promised they could keep the plan they liked. Many Americans rely on easy access to over-the-counter medicines and I have no doubt that repealing the measure will decrease the burden on working families’ already stretched finances.” The medical device tax is a 2.3% tax on sales of medical devices by manufacturers or importers. More than 400,000 Americans are directly employed by the industry, which generates approximately $25 billion in annual payroll and invests nearly $10 billion in research and development annually. The tax could result in the loss of 43,000 American jobs, including over 8,700 jobs in Washington State. “The medical device tax affects not only patients who rely on these devices, but could cost thousands of American jobs, hurt small business and threaten America’s leadership in innovation,” continued Reichert. “This is as much a tax on job creators as it is on those Americans who rely on their products. “I am proud to do everything in my power so that the promises made to working families, to disabled Americans, to retirees and to all Americans are kept: affordable health care, efficient health care and the health care plan that they want. I applaud my colleagues in the House of Representatives for passing the Health Care Cost Reduction Act.” Background: The measures to repeal the medical device tax and the ban of purchasing over-the-counter medications are additional major repealed elements of the government takeover of health care. Previous repeals include the 1099 requirement, the CLASS Act, and most recently the Independent Payment Advisory Board. Congressman Reichert is the author of the Restoring Assistance for Families’ and Seniors’ Health Expenses Act, H.R. 450, which repeals the provision within the health care overhaul law that prohibits holders of Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) and Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medications. H.R. 450 also restores the medical expenses deduction to 7.5% of taxable income and repeals the $2,500 cap placed on FSAs beginning in 2013. Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments for health care, health delivery systems, and health research. ###
06.04.2012	U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) was pleased to host a ribbon-cutting for his new office, sponsored by the Greater Issaquah Chamber of Commerce, today. Rep. Reichert moved his district office to Issaquah from Mercer Island in March. Members and staff of the Greater Issaquah Chamber of Commerce were present for the ceremony along with other community leaders and local elected officials, including Issaquah Mayor Ava Frisinger. “The warm reception we’ve received from the community of Issaquah is remarkable,” said Reichert. “Thank you to Mayor Frisinger, Chamber CEO Matt Bott, and the 50-plus business owners and community leaders for attending today’s reception and officially welcoming me and my staff to Issaquah. Talking with business people from around Issaquah and surrounding communities is always a great opportunity to learn and share ideas on creating jobs locally.” “We are fortunate to have a Congressional District Office here in Issaquah,” said Frisinger. “Issaquah has enjoyed its working relationship with Congressman Reichert and his staff over the years, and we are especially pleased that the public served by Congressman Reichert and by Issaquah has an additional opportunity to communicate with its representative.” Chamber CEO Matt Bott agreed, “We are thrilled to have Congressman Reichert select Issaquah as a location for one of his district offices, and are pleased to join the Mayor in helping to welcome him to the community at the ribbon cutting event on the 4th” said Bott. “We look forward to continuing to work with the Congressman and his dedicated and talented staff on projects and initiatives in support of the Issaquah business community and free enterprise in our country. As the nation’s most trade-dependent state, it is also important to recognize Congressman’s Reichert’s leadership and service on the President’s Export Council, helping to ensure our region and our state are well-positioned to access global markets for our goods and services” The Congressman and his staff are quickly acclimating to their new district home in Issaquah and are excited for upcoming community events around the city. ###
05.28.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day: "As so many of us settle into this long weekend looking forward to visiting with and enjoying our friends and family, let us pause to remember those Americans who have given us the liberty to do so. We are blessed to have so many generations of warriors who have fought valiantly for our freedom. They suffered so that those of us who endure may pursue our American dreams. Most importantly, Memorial Day is a wonderful time to look within our communities for a recent veteran, veteran’s family or group in need and reach out to help. It is within all of our powers to show our support to those brave men and women and their loved ones who continue to offer their lives so that we can have our freedom. God bless them and God bless America." Background: In May 2012, Congressman Reichert, a former U.S. Air Force Reservist, was proud to take the lead on the following bills relating specifically to veterans: H.R. 5380, The Housing for Heroes Act, enabling more non-profit organizations to participate in the primary Veterans Affairs grant program that supports houses and other facilities for homeless veterans. H.R. 5712, The Veterans Jobs Act, authorizing a pilot program that would allow local business leaders to serve as mentors for separating servicemembers transitioning into the civilian workforce. This year, Rep. Reichert has had the honor of meeting with soldiers and officials at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Madigan Army Hospital and the Wounded Warrior Battalion. ###
05.18.2012	U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Tim Walz (MN-1) today introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to enable non-profit organizations that serve homeless veterans to participate in the primary Veterans Affairs grant program that supports housing and other facilities for homeless veterans. The Housing for Heroes Act (H.R. 5830) ensures that more non-profits serving veterans have access to compete for federal resources designated to combat veterans’ homelessness. Current law prevents non-profits that use the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit to shelter the homeless from competing for Veterans’ Affairs Grant and Per Diem Program (GPD) resources, solely because of how the tax credit is administered. This fix will allow these non-profits to put roofs over the heads of those who have risked their lives for our freedom and now find themselves homeless. It is estimated that 67,495 veterans are homeless, a disproportionate share of the population. “After everything that our veterans have done for our country, it is our duty to eliminate barriers to assisting them,” said Rep. Reichert. “This is a solution that will enable more non-profit organizations to take advantage of existing grants and give our homeless veterans additional housing options. Our veterans deserve safe and healthy places to live and we’re going to make that easier for them.” “We have a moral responsibility to do all we can to take care of our brave service members when they get home,” said Rep. Walz, a 24 year veterans of the Army National Guard. “After the sacrifices they’ve made for our nation, it is the least we can do. This legislation simply lifts barriers to existing grants and will work to improve the quality of life for homeless veterans—to put a roof over their head and ensure they are getting the assistance and care they have earned and deserve.” “Our veterans fight a war abroad. Why should they have to fight another war at home? Over 67,000 veterans are homeless on any given night,” said Sharon H. Lee, Executive Director of the Low Income Housing Institute of Seattle, WA. “We applaud Congressman Reichert as his bill is sorely needed and will allow more homeless veterans to benefit from the V.A.’s largest housing initiative, the Grant and Per Diem Program.“ ###
05.17.2012	U.S. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) on Wednesday introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to name the post office at 103 Center Street West in Eatonville, WA in memory of National Park Ranger Margaret Anderson. Ranger Anderson was shot and killed in the line of duty on January 1, 2012 while establishing a roadblock within Washington’s Mount Rainier National Park. Her swift actions prevented the suspect from venturing further into the park to a popular tourist destination. In protecting the public and her Park Service colleagues, she made the ultimate sacrifice. “A senseless and heartbreaking act of violence ended the life of a public servant and law enforcement officer,” said Rep. Reichert, “Washington State has a long tradition of enjoying the great outdoors, and it is because of Rangers like Margaret Anderson that people feel safe exploring our great natural resources. The National Park Ranger Margaret Anderson Post Office will memorialize her service, her heroism and her life.” Margaret Anderson was a loving wife and mother of two young children. Aside from being a dedicated Park Ranger, she was trained in Emergency Medical Services and volunteered with the Eatonville Fire Department. She is remembered by co-workers as a devoted professional who was highly respected and eager to serve. “Margaret’s decisions likely averted catastrophe,” said Randy King, Superintendent of Mount Rainier National Park, “She had high personal standards and a way of bringing out the best in people. I thank Rep. Reichert and members of Congress for supporting this action and honoring her life, calling and sacrifice.” Rep. Reichert has the full support and co-sponsorship of the entire Washington State Congressional delegation for H.R. 5788, a Postal Facility Naming Bill. He introduced the bill during National Police Week, a week honoring law enforcement officers. ###
05.15.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), Co-Chair of the House Law Enforcement Caucus applauded passage of the National Blue Alert Act of 2012, which he co-sponsored. Rep. Reichert led a bipartisan letter last month urging the House Judiciary Committee to hold hearings so that the bill received expeditious consideration by the full House of Representatives. The bill passed the House by a vote of 394 to 1 today, National Peace Officer Memorial Day. This bill is personal for Congressman Reichert. As a former police officer and sheriff of King County, Washington, Rep. Reichert has too often felt the loss of a law enforcement brother or sister. Creating the National Blue Alert system helps to protect not just the men and women of law enforcement, but their families and communities. “Creating the National Blue Alert system is a crucial step forward in protecting our communities and preventing further tragedy. When a criminal murders a law enforcement officer, speedy apprehension is essential to protecting the public, preventing further loss of life and returning peace to communities. By creating a system to quickly disseminate crucial information, we empower ordinary citizens and public safety officers, increasing the speed of justice. It is my honor to add to the tools that officers at every level will use to keep America safe. ” According to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, there is an upward trend in ambush attacks against law enforcement. Washington State has suffered several law enforcement tragedies in recent years. In 2009, a lone gunman entered a Lakewood, Washington coffee shop and assassinated four police officers as they prepared for their shift. Sergeant Mark Renninger was among the fallen. His widow, Kim Renninger, said, “The Blue Alert could have been an effective tool to help catch [the murderer].. As soon as he was identified, all police personnel and citizens would have had access to his name and description in a much shorter amount of time. By streamlining and swiftly disseminating suspect information, similar life-ending disasters can be avoided. “Renninger continued, “Unfortunately, in the last couple of years there's been way too many law enforcement deaths similar to my husband's murder. Each one has deeply affected me and is why I'm now stepping up and asking that the National Blue Alert bill be implemented to protect the citizens of this great country from perpetrators who are on the run after severely injuring or killing a law enforcement officer. “ Nationally this year, 36 officers have already been killed in the line of duty, including Washington State Trooper Tony Radulescu. Trooper Radulescu’s girlfriend, Gina Miller, said in support of a National Blue Alert, “I miss Tony every day … ALL law enforcement needs to be given the tools they need to get the upper hand on the criminals. I don’t want any other family to go through what our family has, wondering where the criminal is and will they be caught,” Miller continued, “How would you feel knowing the killer of one of your loved ones is on the loose and could harm others? The passing of the National Blue Alert Bill [will] provide much needed and necessary tools to our law enforcement, it [will] honor all of those who have lost their life in the line of duty. “ Washington State homicide victim’s advocate and wife of a police officer Keriann Shumate adds, “The fear and anxiety that “Brothers in Blue” experience following a cop’s murder is so strong that residual effects hold a permanent effect.” she continues, “After an attack, it takes every ounce of inner strength to watch my husband leave for work, knowing there is a cop-killer on the loose. How do I explain to my young child that Mommy is crying because she is fearful that somebody on the loose may take away his Daddy? With the Blue Alert available and utilized as soon as suspect information is developed, it can save family members, friends and law enforcement officers days of being out of their mind with fear and anxiety. It will allow the public to be pro-active and get involved in the safety of those who protect their safety.” The National Blue Alert Act of 2012 has the full support of multiple Law Enforcement organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriff’s Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. It directs the Attorney General to establish a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is killed or injured in the line of duty. The act assigns an existing DOJ officer to act as the national coordinator responsible for creating voluntary guidelines to assist states in developing their Blue Alert plans. While fourteen states have already developed Blue Alert systems, criminals do not respect borders, and to this end the Act encourages more states to establish such plans so they can quickly communicate and share information with each other and the public about potentially dangerous offenders on the run. Kim Renninger’s full statement can be found here. Gina Miller’s full statement can be found here. ###
05.03.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert has announced that Haydee Sanchez, a student at Tahoma Senior High School, has won the 2012 Congressional Art Competition for Washington’s Eighth Congressional District with her photograph titled, “Lonely.” Haydee’s artwork was selected Tuesday evening in Maple Valley, Washington, at the Maple Valley Creative Arts Center, a nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting the arts and artists of the Maple Valley area. “As in years past, it was wonderful to see so many great pieces of art submitted by such talented young people,” said Reichert. “Every year this competition impresses me with the highest levels of talent and dedication on display. I was proud to announce Haydee’s photograph won the competition this year.” In addition to Haydee, Olivia Wu, a student at Bellevue Christian High School, was awarded second place with her piece, “Just Thinking,” and Enumclaw High School student Taryn Schriener finished third with her artwork, “Clairvoyance.” “The support every year is a clear signal of the importance of art and art education. I applaud the parents, siblings, teachers and administrators for their support of these gifted artists.” Sanchez’ work will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol beginning the week of June 4 for a calendar year. Background: Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation with the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building. Congressman Reichert, a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, has participated in the program every year since taking office. Reichert is a long-time supporter of a well-rounded school curriculum. ###
04.18.2012	Reichert Introduces Bipartisan Workers’ Compensation Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-8) and Mike Thompson (CA-1) introduced legislation today that improves the Medicare set-aside process for workers’ compensation claims. Currently, workers’ compensation settlements that overlap with Medicare coverage are subject to lengthy, cumbersome review by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to ascertain appropriate “set-aside” coverage amounts for future medical expenses. The Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreements Act provides clear and consistent standards for an administrative process that provides reasonable protections for injured workers and Medicare. “I was proud to work with Rep. Thompson on this bill,” said Reichert, “This is a much-needed �?common sense’ reform to ensure that Medicare claims are handled in a way that is more efficient so that the parties involved can move forward swiftly and with certainty to protect injured workers. Our bill gives injured workers the confidence that their health care claims will be processed in a fair and timely way.” The Medicare Secondary Payer and Workers’ Compensation Settlement Agreements Act will benefit injured workers, employers and insurers by creating a system of certainty and allows the settlement process to move forward while eliminating millions of dollars in administrative costs that harm workers, employers and insurers. ###
04.04.2012	In a show of bi-partisanship, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) continued their fight to preserve federal funding for two crucial law enforcement programs, the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) program and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program . The Law Enforcement Caucus Co-Chairs recruited 143 colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support a letter advocating for the programs’ inclusion in the Department of Justice appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2013. Rep. Reichert: “The tremendous support that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have shown demonstrates our commitment to continue the support of these programs and through them the communities kept safe by the men and women of local law enforcement. I’ll continue to work in Congress on these brave officers’ behalf to ensure that they have the tools and resources needed to keep citizens safe. Supporting local law enforcement is vital to protecting every community across the nation. "The COPS program strengthens our first line of defense against threats to our homeland security by helping communities keep police working on the streets. It is also an investment in maintaining a healthy economy in Main Street America as well as a better quality of life in our hometowns. The Byrne JAG program provides federal resources for comprehensive initiatives that combat criminal activities including gang violence and drug trafficking," said Rep. Pascrell. "I have been proud to work alongside Congressman Reichert in the fight to maintain funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services program as well as the Byrne/JAG program. In the course of hammering out next year's national budget, our message to the Appropriations Committee is clear: We stand in bipartisan unity in support of public safety." The Byrne JAG program is the primary provider of federal funding to state and local jurisdictions and supports nearly all elements of the criminal justice system. The COPS hiring program is designed to improve public safety to increase community hiring. In the last 15 years, the COPS office has funded the addition of nearly 115,000 officers to more than 12,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to increase hiring and, as a consequence, community policing and crime prevention efforts. Aside from the 143 Members of Congress, the initiative to continue funding these crucial programs is supported by 45 Attorneys General, the National Association of Police Organizations, the National Criminal Justice Association and numerous state, local and federal law enforcement organizations. The full text of the letter is below (A PDF of the letter and its list of signers can be found here): Dear Chairman Wolf and Ranking Member Fattah: Thank you for your ongoing and diligent efforts to appropriately rebalance limited resources in this difficult fiscal climate in order to support our nation’s highest priorities. As you begin to craft the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) appropriation bill for Fiscal Year 2013, we urge you to include sufficient funding for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) Program and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) programs, in particular the COPS Hiring program. These programs are critical to ensuring that state and local law enforcement have the tools, personnel, and resources necessary to protect and serve their communities. The federal government has an important and appropriate role to play in helping to prevent and fight crime which knows no boundaries. The Byrne JAG and COPS programs are the cornerstone federal justice assistance programs that support this crucial role. Since their inception, the Byrne JAG and COPS programs have enabled law enforcement agencies to form vital partnerships among communities and law enforcement officers, combat criminal activities, and develop and implement problem-solving and crime prevention programs nationwide. The two programs work hand-in-hand to provide evidence-based and innovative programs to address a multitude of problems within the criminal justice system. The strength of the Byrne JAG program is in its impact across the criminal justice system, from law enforcement to prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, program planning, evaluation, technology improvement, and crime victim and witness initiatives. Byrne JAG funds can be deployed quickly to address emerging trends, such as gang violence, the manufacture of methamphetamine or, more recently, prescription drug abuse. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office and its corresponding programs provide invaluable resources and technical assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies. Since its inception, the COPS Hiring program has placed over 115,000 officers in communities across the United States to advance community policing and crime prevention efforts. These are critical bodies on the street patrolling high crime neighborhoods and working on drug and gang task forces. While the COPS Office is well known for its hiring program, it also provides many other valuable resources and support to assist law enforcement to update technology, strengthen school safety, assist tribal territories, prosecute child sexual predators, and enhance methamphetamine reduction efforts. In this tough economic time, when there have been increases in violent crime, drug sales, and threats to our homeland security, it is essential that law enforcement has the resources necessary to effectively and efficiently protect the public. Continued investment in the Byrne JAG and COPS programs is critical to ensuring our law enforcement men and women have the support and tools necessary to keep themselves and our families safe. In recent years, law enforcement agencies have watched their budgets diminish significantly, resulting in agencies making extremely difficult sacrifices. For example, many law enforcement agencies have been increasing the size of an officer’s patrol area and decreasing the number of officers on a shift due to a lack of available personnel. These setbacks not only pose a serious risk to officers who may now patrol a high-crime area alone or wait longer for back-up; they also hamper law enforcement’s ability to effectively and efficiently fight and prevent crime in communities. We appreciate the difficulty you face in appropriating adequate resources for the programs under your jurisdiction. Continued support for the Byrne JAG and COPS Hiring programs is imperative to the success of law enforcement in keeping our communities safe. These programs supplement the manpower and incentivize the collaboration across agencies necessary to build upon successful crime reduction efforts over the past 20 years. For these reasons, we respectfully request that you include strong funding for the Byrne JAG and COPS programs, especially the COPS Hiring program, in the FY2013 CJS appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, David G. Reichert Bill Pascrell, Jr. Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
03.30.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8), former King County Sheriff, released the following statement regarding the resignation of King County Sheriff Sue Rahr: “Sue has been a trailblazer since she started working in law enforcement. I chose her as my successor as King County Sheriff in 2004 not only because of her extensive experience, but because of her character. I wish her the very best in the next phase of her career at the Washington State Criminal Justice Training Commission. I know that her skills will add value to the Commission, which will trickle down to all law enforcement agencies in Washington State. I know that she’ll do an outstanding job and I look forward to watching her succeed in yet another venue.” ###
03.30.2012	Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-8), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, and Senators Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Chris Coons of Delaware yesterday introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation that would allow federal law enforcement officers who acted under their official duties and charged with a crime in state court an opportunity to petition to have the agent’s case heard before a federal court. “As a former Sheriff I know far too well that law enforcement officers are never ‘off duty.’ Every day, they earn our trust and often step in to save lives and protect the innocent while risking their own safety—regardless of whether they are on or off the job. We owe these brave men and women this assurance so they can continue to focus on serving the American people,” Reichert said. "This legislation will allow federal agents to protect Americans, whether they are on or off duty. Our federal law enforcement agents are highly trained professionals who often go above and beyond what is required of them – and put themselves in harm's way in the process. They deserve our gratitude," said Pascrell. "I am proud to help advance this bipartisan legislation on behalf of dedicated federal agents throughout the country who work to keep us safe." “Federal agents are extensively trained, at taxpayer expense, to protect and serve the American public and are never off-duty. To expect them to stand by while a victim suffers violent acts in their presence is contrary to the oath they take to protect others and is a waste of taxpayer funded training,” Grassley said. “This bill will help make our communities safer and help those who are sworn to guard and serve the public.” “Day in and day out, federal law enforcement officers put themselves in harm’s way to protect Americans,” Coons said. “When I was a county executive in Delaware, I worked closely with our local law enforcement professionals and witnessed firsthand how our brave officers are trained to detect and prevent dangerous situations, whether they are on-the-clock or not. The Officer Safety Act of 2012 will ensure that ‘off duty’ federal officers who intercede to protect the lives of others will be held to the same standards as when they are performing their official duties. This bill will help law enforcement better protect our neighbors and families. I applaud the leadership of Senator Grassley for developing this important legislation and I will continue to advocate on behalf of our brave first responders.” The Officer Safety Act of 2012 is modeled after the Good Samaritan Act, but is narrower, more restrictive, and provides no liability protection. The bill does not provide immunity to federal law enforcement officers, but simply allows for case removal to federal court where the officer will be required to defend his or her actions. In addition, it doesn’t infringe upon states’ rights, as they retain the same due process rights that have existed since the early 1800’s. Specifically, the Officer Safety Act of 2012: allows a federal law enforcement agent, who stops a violent crime while off-duty and is indicted in a state court for those actions, to petition for the state criminal prosecution against him to be removed to a federal court, and clarifies the “color of law” prong required in the removal process, as courts have invited Congress to clarify. The bill is supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Federal Bureau of Investigation Agents Association, and the National Border Patrol Council. It is expected to be referred to the Judiciary committees in both the Senate and the House. The text of the bill can be found by clicking here. ###
03.29.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement after voting to support the FY2013 House Budget Resolution: “Families and small businesses have been over-burdened with trillions of dollars of debt. Today’s House Budget Resolution reins in out-of-control spending and enacts responsible reforms that begin the hard work of getting our fiscal house in order so that we leave a lasting legacy for our children and grandchildren that does not include the burdens of bailouts, wasted tax dollars and colossal deficits. “As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, I look forward to the opportunity to have a robust and open debate about appropriate reforms to our tax code and health care system. Our aim is to simplify the tax code so that small businesses can grow and taxpayers can keep more of what they earn. “This budget tackles spending and strengthens health care. This budget moves forward a framework to support job creators, seniors, veterans, families and entire communities so that they can decide what is in their own best interest and make choices about their future and with it this great nation’s.” Background: The FY2013 House Budget Resolution will produce nearly $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade. It also brings federal spending to below 20% of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2015, which is close to the historical average of 18% over the past 40 years and establishes a binding cap on total discretionary spending in FY2013. The budget eliminates across-the-board cuts to programs such as education and transportation scheduled to take effect next January, affording members the opportunity to more carefully decide how to further reduce spending. ###
03.28.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement honoring the service and sacrifices made by Washington State’s National Guard and Reserve members, the contributions of their employers, and the work of the Department of Defense’s Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) organization in facilitating the integration of reservists into the civilian workforce. “As a former reservist in the U.S. Air Force, I know well the sacrifices made by those in the military reserves as they leave behind not only their families, but also their civilian employers to answer the call of duty. Nearly 50 percent of our Armed Forces are now made up of members of the National Guard and Reserve. ESGR’s ‘On the Road’ campaign across Washington State is providing a valuable service by informing ‘Citizen Warriors’ and their civilian employers of the many resources available to them. “I ask everyone in our local communities to join me in recognizing the extraordinary service of our National Guard and Reserve members, the critical support provided by their employers, and the valuable resources offered to the entire Guard and Reserve community for the past 40 years through ESGR.” Background: In 1972, the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) was created within the Department of Defense to promote the service and re-integration of National Guard Members and other military reservists into the civilian workforce. ESGR is currently running a campaign across Washington State about the sacrifices made by WA National Guard members and Reservists. The “On the Road” campaign consists of transit bus ads that say "We All Serve," highlighting the service of those in the National Guard and Reservists who get called to active duty. Buses in Seattle, Spokane and Olympia are carrying public service announcements and ads to raise awareness about ESGR and advocate supportive employment initiatives for the Guard and Reserve community. In 2007, Rep. Reichert sponsored H.R. 1632 a bill designed to improve responsiveness to veterans’ hiring needs by requiring the Secretary of Labor to issue a yearly report to Congress on employment complaints filed by reservists and National Guard members about re-employment issues, and share the data with the departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs, as well as the Attorney General. ###
03.26.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) was presented yesterday with a USA Wind Jobs Champion Award for his determined support and diligent work in helping to create and sustain U.S. jobs in the wind energy industry. "Extending this long-standing tax incentive will leverage private investment to bring proven energy projects online, and reduce electricity costs for businesses and families,” said Rep. Reichert. “Wind energy plays an important and increasing role in America’s total energy supply and reducing our reliance on foreign energy resources controlled by hostile nations. The certainty an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) will provide can further spur growth in this vital sector, increase economic development, and create jobs.” Denise Bode, American Wind Energy Association’s Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Bishop, Senior Manager Government and Regulatory Affairs of EDP Renewables North America LLC (EDPR) presented Congressman Reichert with the award – a commemorative plaque and wind turbine bolt made by the Dyson Corporation of Painesville, OH. “Representative Reichert’s continued support of the wind energy industry in the state is helping to keep Washington working,” said Jeff Bishop, Senior Manager Government and Regulatory Affairs of EDPR. EDPR currently operates a wind farm in Kittitas Valley. The wind farm has an installed capacity of 100.8 MW – enough to power approximately 28,000 average Washington homes with clean energy each year. In Congressman Reichert’s state, there are three wind manufacturing facilities. Washington is home to Katana Summit and TBailey, both major wind turbine tower manufacturers who have manufacturing facilities in Ephrata and Anacortes, respectively. At least 9 facilities in Washington currently manufacture components for the wind energy industry. In 2010 alone, the wind industry supported as many as 2,000 Washington jobs. Washington currently ranks 6th in total overall wind power installation. In 2011, Washington installed the 8th most wind power in the US. “I want to thank Congressman Reichert for his strong support of American jobs and private investment in one of America’s fastest growing manufacturing sectors,” said Denise Bode, CEO of AWEA. “Congressman Reichert understands that wind power is creating an American success story, but this success depends on stable tax policy. With the Congressman’s strong support, we are working to extend American wind’s crucial Production Tax Credit and save tens of thousands of good American jobs in the wind industry.” ###
03.22.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today voted to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), yet another harmful provision of the $1.1 trillion government takeover of health care, signed into law March 23rd, 2010. “Two years ago, the massive health care overhaul came before us, and then-Speaker Nancy Pelosi said we had to pass the bill to find out what was in it. To date, the House has successfully repealed, with bipartisan support, the flawed 1099 requirement, the CLASS Act, and IPAB. “This board of unelected bureaucrats would make decisions and give recommendations to Congress for cutting Medicare benefits. These bureaucrats would unilaterally decide what kind of care was allowable for seniors and Americans with disabilities. Not doctors. Not nurses. Not anybody with medical or scientific training. Bureaucrats. To add insult to injury, seniors and Americans with disabilities would actually have had to pay for this board to cut their benefits because it was to be funded from Medicare trust funds. “The health care overhaul was filled with broken promises. Two years ago, we were told ‘If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor. Period. If you like your health care plan, you will be able to keep your health care plan. Period. No one will take it away. No matter what.’ It turns out that was just not true. The Congressional Budget Office last week said that 4 million people would have to move from employer-based to government-based health programs under the existing law. “Every day I hear from constituents, small business owners and health care providers about the burdensome regulations and tax increases included in the health care overhaul. In the last two years, my colleagues and I have taken 25 floor votes to repeal, defund or dismantle onerous elements of the massive government takeover of our nation’s health care system. I will continue to fight these troublesome burdens on individuals and small businesses and work to create better solutions. “I believe in quality, affordable and accessible health care for Americans. Abolishing the restriction on pre-existing conditions is one of the rare positive sections of the health care overhaul. My goal moving forward is to protect and strengthen health care, a goal attained through ensuring that families and small businesses can keep the plans they already have without increasing premiums, access quality care without government interference and enjoy the benefits of living in a country where medical innovation is not taxed and healthy lifestyles are promoted.” Background: Reichert is the author of the Restoring Assistance for Families’ and Seniors’ Health Expenses Act, H.R. 450, which will restore important tax relief for individuals, families and small businesses. This act restores the 7.5% income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses, repeals the cap on maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSA’s) and repeals the ban on using FSA’s to purchase over the counter medication. Reichert has also voted for the Reform Americans Can Afford Act, H.R. 5424 which would replace the current health law with policies that lower insurance premiums for families and small businesses, increase access to affordable care and encourage innovative state programs. Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments (from any source) for health care, health delivery systems, and health research. # # #
03.15.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and the leading advocate in Congress for the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), today released the following statement to mark the official beginning (Entry into Force) of the Agreement: “Today is the historic beginning of new market access for U.S. made goods and services in Korea. I am proud to remember this day as the culmination of a lot of hard work, perseverance, and collaboration with the members of the Washington delegation, my colleagues on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and the President’s Export Council, and with our Trade Representative Ron Kirk. There is no doubt that today’s official Entry into Force will immediately pay dividends for Washington State businesses, workers, owners, and the whole economy of the United States. “I have heard directly from orchard owners, farmers, manufacturers, and exporters in Washington excited for new opportunities to see their products and services reach more expansively into the global marketplace and create thousands upon thousands of great jobs along the way. Today is an exciting and hopeful day for the Pacific Northwest, the State of Washington, and the United States of America.” To read more about the benefits of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement click here. To learn more about the President’s Export Council click here.BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, led the fight to pass the Agreement through the House in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade Subcommittee, and as the founder of the U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group. Reichert led this group of Democrats and Republicans, including Adam Smith (WA-09), to garner the bipartisan support of more than 100 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Ambassador to China Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy after appointing him to serve on the President’s Export Council: “Congressman Reichert is a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with South Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue is undoubtedly of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council is well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. ###
02.24.2012	Issaquah, WA, March 1, 2012--U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert has moved his office to Issaquah, Washington. The new office, which was relocated from Mercer Island, is open to constituents as of Thursday, March 1, 2012. The new location is centrally located in Sammamish View Office Building and meets Congressional security criteria. Six full time staff members will use the Issaquah office as home base. “I’m excited to be moving to Issaquah. My priority as a Congressman is serving my district and my constituents.” said Rep. Reichert. The Congressman, who is in the district nearly every weekend, is very familiar with Issaquah, which was on his patrol route when he was a deputy sheriff in the 1970’s. The new address is 22605 SE 56 Street, Suite 130, Issaquah, WA 98029. The new phone number is 425-677-7414. # # #
02.23.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-8) issued the following statement today following the news that Washington State Patrol Trooper Tony Radulescu had been killed in the line of duty: “I am deeply saddened to hear this morning of the senseless death of Washington State Patrol Trooper Tony Radulescu. As a 33 year former member of the law enforcement family, unfortunately I have firsthand knowledge of this tragedy’s impact. I am heartbroken that his immediate family and his brothers and sisters in the Washington State Patrol community are suffering this enormous loss. “Trooper Radulescu’s sacrifice serves as a reminder of all the brave men and women who keep our streets secure while their loved ones worry for them. I urge everybody to do what they can to support not only Trooper Radulescu’s immediate family, but also his greater family of first responders. Keep them all in your thoughts and prayers today and every day.” # # #
02.21.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and the leading advocate in Congress for the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), today released the following statement upon the announcement that the agreement will enter into force on March 15, 2012: “In a few weeks, the United States will come closer to leveling the international playing field for American made goods and services. South Korea is the most significant new market opportunity for U.S. companies in 16 years. The entry into force of this free trade agreement will create thousands of good jobs in Washington State and offer $11 billion in new sales opportunities for Pacific Northwest manufacturers, farmers, and service providers. “I am proud to have helped pass this historic agreement and am excited to see it come to fruition. By opening up Korea’s $1 trillion economy for America’s workers and businesses, we have taken an important step forward in strengthening America’s position in the global economy. I look forward to continuing to open new markets and making it easier for every American business to “Sell American.” To read more about the benefits of the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement click here. # # #
01.04.2012	Health Subcommittee Chairman Wally Herger (R-CA), Ways and Means Member Dave Reichert (R-WA), Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Charles Boustany, Jr. (R-LA) sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Douglas Shulman with new information relevant to AARP’s tax-exempt status. Specifically, the letter requests that IRS examine new information regarding AARP’s financial arrangements with HearUSA, Inc. (HearUSA) and UnitedHealth Group (United). Following a year-long investigation, the Members authored and issued a report in April. The report found that, as a result of the new health care law, AARP stands to make an additional one billion dollars over the next ten years through the sale of AARP-endorsed insurance products. The report raised serious concerns about whether AARP was fulfilling the requirements of a tax-exempt organization, or if AARP’s significant involvement in the business affairs of its numerous partners indicates the organization is a for-profit business operating under a tax-exempt status. Following a joint hearing of the Ways and Means Health and Oversight Subcommittees, the Members forwarded the report to the IRS for review and requested the agency assess whether AARP’s tax status should be reconsidered. As a follow-up to the hearing, the Members obtained additional information regarding AARP’s business practices. Today’s letter details the new findings and requests the IRS consider the new details when conducting its review of AARP's tax status. In particular, the letter raises specific concerns about AARP’s involvement in third-party contractors’ day-to-day business activity. The letter notes, “These contracts suggest that AARP’s relationship with United is much more than an agreement to license the AARP name. Rather, AARP has extensive decision-making authority over, and is deeply involved in, United’s business operations. The AARP relationship with both United and HearUSA seem to suggest a pattern of business partnerships and activities that permits AARP to engage in for-profit businesses under the cover of its tax-exempt status.” In 2008, AARP entered into a financial arrangement with HearUSA to endorse the company's hearing aids, and in return AARP would receive a commission on each hearing aid sold. The HearUSA contract raises additional issues regarding AARP's ongoing characterization of certain payments as tax-exempt "royalties." AARP's ability to dictate HearUSA advertising expenditures and mandate "charitable" donations from HearUSA to AARP's Foundation exceeds simple brand and quality management. Additionally, information gleaned from AARP, AARP Services Inc. (ASI), and United's three Medicare contracts reveals the financial incentives for different insurance product lines. The contracts dictate United’s marketing and sale of AARP-branded Medigap, Medicare Advantage, and Medicare Part D policies and details AARP and ASI’s extensive influence over and involvement in United’s daily business operations. The full letter can be found here. ###
01.03.2012	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the new 8th congressional district map: "It has been an honor and a privilege to serve the constituents of the 8th Congressional district over the last seven years. Even before my time in Congress – as a member of the Air Force and as King County Sheriff – I have strived every day to perform my job with honor and integrity and with the heart of a servant. While some of the communities I am representing may change, my commitment and dedication to being a public servant will not. I am excited to have an opportunity to represent new communities in central and western Washington and continue to serve as a voice for Washingtonians." # # #
12.20.2011	Washington, DC, Dec 20 – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after reaffirming his support for a full-year payroll tax cut extension by supporting a measure that asks the Senate to return to Washington, DC to complete its work: "Today, the U.S. House of Representatives insisted on providing seniors, struggling businesses, and working families with certainty through 2012,” said Reichert. “The public policy we are debating is too important to leave unresolved over a holiday vacation. Seniors need care. The jobless need temporary assistance. Families and businesses will need tax relief in the coming year. “That is why, last week, I helped the House pass a fully offset, bipartisan package that would have taken care of these legislative loose ends. I was disappointed that HR 3630 failed in the Senate but I’m not giving up on the effort or my constituents. I am ready to fight for a year-long solution and won’t settle for a short-term political fix. The President has said it is inexcusable to let these provisions expire. I agree.”
12.15.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after the United States formally concluded its military presence in Iraq: "I am so proud of our troops serving in Iraq and am glad many of them will now be able to spend the holidays at home with friends and family,” said Reichert. “The service and commitment of more than one million American military personnel liberated Iraq and brought a new democracy to the Middle East. The 30,000 that were wounded and nearly 4,500 that gave the ultimate sacrifice will never be forgotten. “American soldiers worked hard to ensure Iraqi security forces are equipped to keep order and protect their borders. I remain concerned by the regional influence of an increasingly hostile regime in Iran, but hope Iraq will have a prosperous, safe future as we welcome American forces home. Our men and women in uniform have been fighting around the world in the defense of liberty for generations. The troops coming home this month are the latest part of that noble tradition.” # # #
12.14.2011	Senator Patty Murray, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Senator Maria Cantwell, and Governor Christine Gregoire have launched a campaign to ensure that Fairchild Air Force Base becomes home to the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. As part of that campaign, Washington state’s full congressional delegation sent a letter to U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to outline the exceptional assets Fairchild has to offer the new fleet. The letter was sent in conjunction with efforts by Washington state legislative leaders who also voiced their support for tanker placement at Fairchild. “Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation members wrote. “Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community.” The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. The full text of the letter follows: Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1690 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Secretary Donley, On behalf of the State of Washington, we would like to thank you for the service and sacrifice made by the men and women and their families of the United States Air Force on behalf of our nation. It is with that gratitude that we write to you today in support of the KC-46A aerial refueling program and the Air Force’s strategic basing process. As you know, the KC-46A will play a critical role in the United States’ global strategy. Mission successes will rely heavily on the strategic basing determination process and the effective and efficient use of these aircraft. Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater. The base is a strategic staging platform supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. Fairchild is also home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. The association marries the best the active duty and reserve component have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. Together, the integrated ARWs deliver a full spectrum of capability with one of the largest, most experienced organizations in the Air Force today. The Air Force continues to recognize Fairchild’s assets and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. Accommodating the new KC-46A will require a modest investment in infrastructure as the Air Force has already improved the 14,000 foot runway and has plans to build a new Wing Headquarters and improved SERE facilities. Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. It is a strongly desired duty station and is the second-most requested Air Force assignment in the United States. There are also 1000 Air Guard members who reside in the community with additional retirees who choose Spokane as their home following their military careers. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community. The Spokane community has developed a white paper by “Forward Fairchild,” a coalition of Spokane businesses and community advocated that further detail the benefits associated with Fairchild Air Force Base, the Spokane community and Washington State. We have enclosed it for your review. We look forward to your consideration of Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the new tanker fleet. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Patty Murray U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Representative Jay Inslee U.S. Representative Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler U.S. Representative Doc Hastings U.S. Representative Norm Dicks U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Dave Reichert U.S. Representative Adam Smith
12.13.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the statement below after supporting the Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act (H.R. 3630), which passed the House by a vote of 234-193. The fully offset legislation extends the payroll tax cut through 2012, reforms and extends unemployment insurance, and ensures Medicare providers will continue to be reimbursed for healthcare services they provide to seniors. "This package is critically important to many of this country’s most vulnerable citizens,” said Reichert. “It is a comprehensive bill made up of proposals from both sides of the aisle. Extending the payroll tax cut without raiding Social Security will allow middle class families to keep and spend more of their hard-earned wages next year. Those who are currently out of work also won’t see their temporary assistance disappear. This bill extends federal unemployment insurance while also granting states the flexibility to test new strategies to help people get back to work more quickly. Inaction is unacceptable. Congress cannot stand by while families continue to struggle and seniors need care.”
11.23.2011	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after hosting the Help Identify Real Employment (HIRE) for America Jobs Fair at the ShoWare Center in Kent where nearly 2,400 job seekers met with 90 local employers: “The HIRE America jobs fair was a success,” said Reichert. “I spent the entire day talking with local employers and job seekers, hoping to fill hundreds of jobs. It’s too early to tell exactly how many positions will be filled but I’m confident, after speaking with those in attendance, that today’s bipartisan effort was effective. I spoke with constituents who were eager to make an impression and employers who were energized by their interviews with capable candidates. What a blessing it would be to a family, a business, and the community if we can place one employed person in a new position this holiday season. “The community pulled together to make this successful event possible. I plan to take this best practice – along with a strong spirit of bipartisan cooperation – to Washington, DC in hopes of spreading this message with my colleagues.” “I am extremely proud that thousands of job seekers joined me and Congressman Reichert to meet with more than 90 employers at today’s event," said Smith. "Our goal is to put Americans back to work, and it starts by making sure we connect employers with potential employees who have matching skills and needs. That is exactly what happened today. This bipartisan effort brought our community together to address the most important issue our country faces right now, and we’re grateful to everyone who participated for making it a success.”###
11.18.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after supporting a balanced budget amendment (H.J. Res. 2) to the Constitution: "Americans are tired of the federal government spending money it doesn’t have and borrowing money it can’t pay back,” said Reichert. “I have consistently supported a balanced budget amendment because it is a practical step toward accountable government and long-term fiscal responsibility. “Businesses and families have to balance their budgets and plan for the future. The federal government should do the same. A balanced budget amendment would force politicians in Washington, DC to make the tough choices they have too often avoided. I hope that today’s consideration of a balanced budget amendment will encourage more of my colleagues to join me in focusing on getting our country back on track; getting Americans back to work; creating opportunities for advancement through education; and providing for a successful future for generations to come. The prosperity of our children and grandchildren depend on it.” H.J. Res. 2 is nearly identical to the balanced budget amendment that passed the House in 1995 with 300 bipartisan votes. Prohibits Congress from spending more than it receives in revenues unless 3/5 of both chambers votes to allow excess spending. Requires the President to submit a balanced budget to Congress Requires a majority roll call vote for any proposed bill to increase taxes Requires a 3/5 vote in both Chambers to raise the debt ceiling Provides for a limited exception in times of war and military conflicts that pose an imminent and serious threat to national security # # #
11.17.2011	After a concerted bipartisan effort that began months ago, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) successfully saved local law enforcement resources from the chopping block earlier this evening. By a vote of 298-121, the House reversed course and passed legislation funding the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The bill provides funding for the U.S. Department of Justice for Fiscal Year 2012, which includes a total of $198.5 million for COPS; $166 million of which will be made available for municipal police departments to apply for competitive grants to hire or rehire police officers. “I am proud to report that the collective voice of the law enforcement community and their advocates in Congress was heard,” said Reichert. “The men and women who patrol and protect our neighborhoods are vital to maintaining public safety and this bill will ensure that many of them can continue to serve our communities. Understandably, my colleagues and I in the House are evaluating the effectiveness of every federal program in our effort to reduce the deficit. Reversing the decision to eliminate the COPS office proves that public safety is a national priority and an important investment. I was motivated in this effort by the firsthand knowledge that COPS plays an important role in protecting our businesses, homes, and families. I am grateful to Congressman Pascrell, the Law Enforcement Caucus, and all of the concerned citizens who joined me in standing up to preserve needed resources that keep us safe.” "I am greatly heartened that common sense prevailed over petty politics with the passage of this legislation that includes funding to help communities keep police on the streets," said Pascrell, a member of the House Budget Committee. "This has been a battle we have been fighting all year. But with the help of my strong partnership with Congressman Reichert, and the support of the bipartisan Law Enforcement Caucus, the House and Senate have come together to support the police departments that protect our communities and families. I'm proud of what we've accomplished. But rest assured that if the need ever arises, we'll fight this fight over and over again. Fewer police means more crime, and the safety of our communities must never be compromised."BACKGROUND Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell, co-chairs of the bipartisan Law Enforcement Caucus, have worked together throughout the year to save the COPS office from elimination. In July, the lawmakers rallied their colleagues against the House Appropriations legislation that did not fund the COPS office at all. On November 2, Reichert and Pascrell recommitted themselves to defending local law enforcement jobs in a letter to the leadership of the House Appropriations Committee, ahead of their conference to reconcile the relevant funding bill with the Senate.A report released last month by the U.S Department of Justice’s COPS office revealed that that nearly 12,000 law enforcement officers will lose their jobs this year alone. Another 30,000 positions remain unfilled, and 2011 could produce the first national decline in law enforcement officer positions in the last 25 years. ###
11.14.2011	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) released the following statement after announcing their plans to host the Help Identify Real Employment (HIRE) for America Jobs Fair on Tuesday, November 22 from 10 a.m to 3 p.m. PST at the ShoWare Center in Kent: “Adam and I understand that Washingtonians want their elected officials to work together to create an environment for economic growth,” said Reichert. “Our hope is that bringing local businesses and individual constituents together under one roof will increase employment in our communities. I am proud to be a part of this unique event and will continue to work across the aisle to help struggling families cope with these tough economic times.” “Dave and I are honored to co-host this event in Kent, a city we both represent,” said Smith. “We both strongly believe in working across party lines to address unemployment and improve our local and national economies. We are also committed to working together to empower individuals and strengthen our local community. Our goal is that this event will provide workers the skills and resources they need to find jobs, and make the holiday season less difficult for struggling families. That is and should always be a bipartisan effort.” Representatives from more than 75 local employers are expected to attend. Participants are encouraged to bring resumes and prepare to interview onsite. The fair is free and complimentary parking will be available.###
11.11.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “Generation after generation, noble Americans have volunteered to defend this country and the ideal of freedom around the world,” said Reichert. “Without the men and women of our Armed Forces –and their families – this world would be a far different place. Tyrants could rule indefinitely, injustice could go unpunished, and the calls of those who suffer disaster would go unanswered. “Fortunately, we don’t live in a world like that. The unmatched strength, honor, and sense of duty continuously displayed by our men and women in uniform is a powerful, positive force. Thanks to their commitment, people of all nations know that justice and freedom will prevail. Thanks to their dedication, suffering populations around the globe can be confident that help is not out of reach. Their presence and actions have changed the history of the world we live in. Especially today, I want to express my sincere gratitude to our servicemen, our servicewomen, and their families for their unparalleled service and sacrifice. You fill a collective American heart with pride, thank you.”
11.07.2011	Today, Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Geoff Davis (R-KY) and Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) introduced H.R. 3339, the Standard Data and Technology Advancement Act, or the “Standard DATA Act.” This legislation establishes consistent requirements for the electronic content and format of data used in the administration of key human services programs including TANF, child care, child support, foster care and adoption, SSI and unemployment insurance.Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Davis said, “Using lessons learned in the private sector, we know improved data standards will help increase the efficiency of data exchanges to effectively administer benefit programs. One example is helping automate application forms by pre-populating them with reliable and verified data, which can reduce the manual burden on staff and allow them more time to engage people in need, all while reducing error. That’s good for program beneficiaries and taxpayers at the same time.”Human Resources Ranking Member Doggett stated, “This bill is a good step toward ensuring government programs are able to communicate effectively and efficiently with each other – a step that will ultimately address fraud and abuse, while at the same time helping eligible Americans receive the assistance that they need.”Background: Applying the provisions of the Standard DATA Act across multiple programs will advance the longer-term goal of allowing data both within and across all Federal assistance programs to operate more efficiently – first by establishing standard elements for individual items of information, and second by defining, in predictable ways, how those elements relate to one another. These standardization activities will promote transparency, flexibility, and consistency across various information technology platforms established by Federal and State agencies. This bill continues the efforts begun in the bipartisan, bicameral Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act of 2011, which was the first effort at requiring a human services program to implement standard data elements and reporting. President Obama signed that bill into law on September 30, 2011. H.R. 3339 was introduced with an additional 15 original cosponsors, including Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Wally Herger (R-CA), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Charles Boustany (R-LA), Tom Price (R-GA), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Kenny Marchant (R-TX), Rick Berg (R-ND), Diane Black (R-TN), Tom Reed (R-NY) and James Lankford (R-OK). Chairman Davis’ full statement on the bill introduction can be found here.
11.03.2011	Washington DC – U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), members of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, today introduced the American Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit Extension Act (H.R. 3307). This bipartisan bill extends the tax incentive for the production of wind power, geothermal power, hydropower, and other forms of renewable energy through 2016. “Extending this long-standing tax incentive will leverage private investment to bring proven energy projects online, bolster domestic manufacturing, and reduce electricity costs for businesses and families,” said Rep. Reichert. “Renewable energy resources play an important and increasing role in America’s total energy supply and reducing our reliance on foreign energy resources controlled by hostile nations. The certainty this bipartisan bill will provide can further spur growth in this vital sector, increase economic development, and create jobs.” “Tax credits for renewable energy development are an essential part of powering America’s clean energy future,” said Rep. Blumenauer. Investing in the renewable energy industry is vitally important for the American economy, creates jobs, and moves us towards energy independence.” "American wind energy jobs are something that we can all agree are vital for our economic well-being and energy security," said Denise Bode, CEO of the American Wind Energy Association. "The recent stability of production tax credit (PTC) has provided the foundation of wind energy's transformation of a new manufacturing sector based on American ingenuity. Over the last six years, U.S. domestic production of wind turbine components has grown 12-fold to more than 400 facilities in 43 states. Extending the PTC will keep growing U.S. wind energy manufacturing jobs, rather than losing them to other countries." “Extending hydropower tax incentives provides developers financial certainty and will bring additional clean, affordable and reliable hydroelectric power to more American families,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association. “A long-term PTC extension sends a market signal supporting project development, in turn leveraging significant private investment.” "The Reichert-Blumenauer bill is a measure that will help diversify our nation’s energy sources while employing thousands of Americans and providing hundreds of megawatts of new clean energy,” said Bob Cleaves, President and CEO of Biomass Power Association. “Biomass power promotes sustainable forestry and farming while providing predictable, long-term energy solutions that contribute to rural economies across the country." “Extending federal tax incentives through 2016 is vital for the future of the US geothermal industry,” said Karl Gawell, Executive Director of the Geothermal Energy Association. “We are already seeing a slow-down in projects unable or unlikely to meet the current deadline. This legislation would stem this downturn and sustain growth in the US geothermal industry.” BACKGROUND H.R. 3307 provides a clean, 4-year extension of the existing production tax credit for wind, biomass, geothermal, small irrigation, landfill gas, trash, and hydropower. It was created in the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and has frequently been extended in year-end packages of expiring tax provisions, as well as in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The current incentive is set to expire next year for wind and in 2013 for other renewable energy forms. Advocates note that historically, at least six to eight months before the tax credit expires, financial lenders hesitate in providing capital for projects because of the uncertainty created by the pending expiration of the credit, stalling projects from coming online. The rush to complete projects as the PTC nears expiration also reduces projects and adds costs, resulting in higher electricity prices.
11.02.2011	Days after the U.S. Department of Justice reported the first national decline in law enforcement officer positions in the last 25 years, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) recommitted themselves to defending local law enforcement jobs. In a letter to the leadership of the House Appropriations Committee, the two lawmakers urged support of funding for the COPS program as the FY2012 Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill is reconciled with the Senate. Yesterday, the Senate voted to approve its version of the legislation by a vote of 69-30, which includes $232 million for COPS and $200 million for the COPS Hiring program. In July, the House CJS Subcommittee recommended eliminating COPS. The text of the letter follows: Dear Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Dicks, Chairman Wolf, and Ranking Member Fattah: As you continue your work to appropriately allocate limited resources in the Fiscal Year 2012 Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you reconsider proposals to eliminate the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office and its corresponding programs. The COPS office provides invaluable resources and technical assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies. We believe continued investment in the COPS program is critical to ensuring our men and women in uniform have the support and tools necessary to keep our families and communities safe. A recent report from the COPS Office entitled “The Impact of the Economic Downturn on American Police Agencies” reveals that 2011 could produce the first national decline in law enforcement officer positions in the last 25 years. According to the report, nearly 12,000 law enforcement officers will lose their jobs this year while an estimated 30,000 law enforcement jobs are unfilled. As a result of diminished budgets and staffing shortages, many agencies have made the difficult decision to no longer respond to certain crimes such as motor vehicle thefts or non-injury motor vehicle accidents; they have cut back on investigations of property crimes, tracking fugitives, and low-level narcotics cases; and agencies have also reduced investments in officer training, technology, and communications. This decline in our nation’s law enforcement will have a serious negative impact on the safety of our communities and security of our nation. As the former Sheriff of King County, Washington and the former Mayor of Paterson, New Jersey respectively, we have seen firsthand the many ways COPS assists local communities in combating crime. Since its inception the COPS program has placed 117,000 officers in communities across the United States to advance community policing and crime prevention efforts. These are critical bodies on the street patrolling high crime neighborhoods, working on drug and gang task forces, or working as school resource officers to improve the safety of our children’s classrooms. During debate on the FY2011 Continuing Resolution, a bipartisan majority of members voted to restore nearly $300 million to the COPS office. Earlier this year, 115 members in the House – Democrats and Republicans – reaffirmed their support of continued funding for the COPS programs for FY2012. These programs supplement the manpower and incentivize collaboration across agencies necessary to build upon successful crime reduction efforts over the past 20 years. While we are disappointed with the Committee’s recommendation to eliminate the COPS Office and its programs, we are encouraged by Chairman Wolf’s comments during the full committee markup of H.R. 2596 on July 20, 2011 where he expressed a desire to work with us moving forward to restore funds to the COPS program. Our colleagues in the Senate have also demonstrated their support for the continuation of this critical law enforcement program. Today, with bipartisan support the Senate passed a “minibus” appropriations bill that provides $232 million for COPS and $200 million for the COPS Hiring program. As you continue to work with your colleagues in the Senate to reconcile differences between the competing FY2012 CJS proposals, we respectfully request that you continue funding for COPS. The COPS programs are critical to ensuring that state and local law enforcement have the tools, personnel, and resources necessary to protect and serve their communities and our nation. We appreciate the difficult task before you to appropriately rebalance limited federal resources and thank you for your consideration of this request and willingness to work with us in support of our men and women in uniform. Sincerely, DAVE REICHERT BILL PASCRELL, JR Member of Congress Member of Congress # # #
10.26.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement announcing the formation of a youth-focused advisory board made up of high school students residing in the Eighth Congressional District: “I’m excited to form the Youth Advisory Board because young people are impacted greatly by the decisions of policymakers at all levels of government – their voices should be heard,” said Reichert. “Participants will learn about public policy and I am eager to exchange ideas and hear their feedback. These students’ unique perspective will be valuable as I continue working to find long-term solutions to the problems that face their families, their community, and this country. I look forward to working with these bright young people who call the Eighth District home.” To learn more, interested students should contact Congressman Reichert’s Mercer Island district office or inquire with their teachers and administrators, who have already been notified of the opportunity.
10.25.2011	Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the statement below after testifying at a Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands hearing on the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 608). H.R. 608 would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “I want to thank the Subcommittee for the opportunity to testify in support of the Alpine Lakes expansion – a bipartisan measure that the House passed last year,” said Reichert. “I explained to Members of the Committee that Washington state policymakers have a long tradition of working together to protect our public lands and preserve recreational opportunities for outdoors enthusiasts. The additions made by H.R. 608 to the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area, carries on that tradition of collaborative, consensus-based, environmental stewardship. “I am proud of the fact that this legislation is the result of extensive consultation and consensus-building with elected officials, conservation enthusiasts, recreation groups, and property-rights advocates. This wilderness will serve untold numbers of Americans and future generations for whom we must act today. As a grandfather, I understand that we have a stake today in a future I will not live to see. That is the world in which our grandchildren’s children will live their lives, in whatever kind of landscape we have left them. I will continue my work to see the Alpine Lakes Wilderness expanded and invite my colleagues to join me in supporting this effort.” Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) is a co-sponsor of this legislation in the Senate (S. 322) while Congressmen Inslee, McDermott, Dicks, and Smith are co-sponsors in the House. Similar text passed the U.S. House of Representatives on March 18, 2010.BACKGROUNDThe existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the new Alpine Lakes legislation include: · Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these lower elevation lands also has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. · Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
10.12.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and the leading advocate in the House for the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, today released the following statement after pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea passed the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support: “I am excited for American workers. Years of tireless work to bring these job-creating free trade agreements to the House floor, paid off today with strong, bipartisan support for their passage,” said Reichert. “These are proven jobs bills that will create and sustain thousands of good jobs in Washington state. These historic deals will also offer $13 billion in new sales opportunities for Pacific Northwest manufacturers, farmers, and service providers. I led the effort to pass the Korea agreement because it is especially important to our diplomatic interests and economic recovery. American workers and businesses deserve a level playing field to compete in the global economy. “President Obama asked for a jobs bill. Today, Congress responded by sending three bipartisan measures to his desk in the form of these job-creating free trade agreements. While it took far too long to arrive at this moment, I am hopeful that Democrats and Republicans can build on this success. We have to work together if we are going to get our economy back on track by opening new markets and selling American goods and services to consumers abroad.” The trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea are estimated to create 250,000 jobs and increase gross domestic product by $10-$13 billion each year.BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the President’s Export Council: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with South Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
10.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and the leading advocate in the House for the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, today released the following statement after pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama were approved and reported out of Committee: “I am thrilled to help lead this historic effort to advance three job-creating free trade agreements to votes on the House floor,” said Reichert. “The Committee’s swift action is proof that we are in a race against time – to approve these deals and create 250,000 jobs. Every day the United States does not implement these free trade agreements is another day American businesses and workers fall behind. China, Canada, and the EU, are all aggressively moving forward with their own market-opening trade deals. Approving these trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama is critically important to maintaining competitiveness in the global marketplace. “The United States uses the best workers to make the best products in the world. We must keep up with our competitors by opening new markets and selling more American goods and services to customers around the world who demand them. Ninety-five percent of those consumers live outside of our borders. Now that these agreements have cleared the Committee, I will continue my work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure these jobs measures are sent to the President’s desk as soon as possible.”BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the President’s Export Council: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
10.03.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, the President’s Export Council, and the leading advocate in the House for the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, today released the following statement after the Administration transmitted pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama to Congress: “I applaud the Administration for sending these job-creating trade deals to the Hill,” said Reichert. “The President spoke about the benefits of opening new markets in his State of the Union speech and again in the most recent joint session of Congress. I am happy to hear that we can now turn that talk into bipartisan action – and American jobs. “Approving these trade agreements is vital to America’s global competitiveness. The failure to open new markets while China, Canada, and the EU race ahead with trade deals of their own costs America thousands of jobs and lost opportunities in emerging markets. The US-Korea trade agreement alone will create more than 70,000 American jobs and generate billions of dollars in new business activity. It will also advance new standards for intellectual property rights protections to shield American businesses from counterfeiting and open new doors for trade in services. “These trade agreements are our opportunity to address economic uncertainty with a no-cost, proven jobs stimulus. In the coming days, I will be working non-stop to ensure my colleagues in both chambers and in both parties understand how immensely important these trade deals are to our economic recovery and long-term job creation.”BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the President’s Export Council: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
09.15.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after voting in support of the House-passed Protecting Jobs From Government Interference Act (H.R. 2587), legislation that would prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from determining where private companies can do business: “The United States is at an economic crossroads, but Americans are still the most successful people in the world thanks to our entrepreneurial spirit,” said Reichert. “Time and time again, American businesses have proven that they can recover, grow, and hire if given the space to do so. Innovative businessmen and women, not federal bureaucrats, will create jobs and lead this country back to an era of prosperity. Government should help them in this task, not get in the way. "It is not the role of the federal government to tell private businesses where they should or should not set up shop,” continued Reichert. “Allowing this kind of interference would not only be detrimental to individual businesses, but would set a dangerous precedent for all private ventures. Far-reaching government regulation has prolonged our economic downturn and cost American jobs. If the NLRB is allowed to interfere I fear businesses may begin avoiding our region altogether; believing that if they build and hire in Washington state, the federal government will never again allow them the flexibility they need to continuously adapt their operation. I cast my vote today hoping that H.R. 2587 will encourage regulators to loosen their grip and allow American businesses to do what they have always done – succeed.”BACKGROUNDOn April 20, 2011, the NLRB filed a formal complaint against The Boeing Company, alleging that the company’s 2009 decision to build an airplane assembly plant in South Carolina was retaliation for a lengthy, costly International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) strike in the previous year. Boeing rejected the NLRB action as a misguided over-reach that contradicts 45 years of NLRB and Supreme Court precedent. For the complaint to succeed under existing legal precedent, it must establish that Boeing’s decision created an adverse impact on union-represented employment. However, according to Boeing, none of the production jobs created in South Carolina came at the expense of IAM jobs in Puget Sound. In fact, IAM employment in Puget Sound has grown by approximately 2,000 positions since Boeing announced its plans to open another production line in South Carolina.
09.12.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement: "Today marks the ten year anniversary of one our nation's darkest days; nearly 3,000 Americans were taken from their families and loved ones," said Reichert. "The images of death and destruction we experienced that day will forever be seared into our memory. "The terrorists tried to break our spirit on 9/11. Instead, their acts inspired bravery and brought out the best in America. First responders selflessly ran into burning buildings to save complete strangers. We must honor their memory and the memory of all who were killed that day by never forgetting their bravery and sacrifice, and continuing to fight terrorism and its ideology of hate. "On 9/11 Americans across this country came together to mourn those lost and to commit themselves to fighting the terrorists who carried out these heinous acts. While time has passed, the resolve and unity we felt ten years ago has not faded. Many of our men and women in uniform have given the ultimate sacrifice to protect our cherished freedoms and so many more continue to risk their lives to protect our nation. "September 11, 2001 was a painful, horrific day but it also proved something positive I've always known was true: Despite our individual differences, the things that bind us together are stronger than anything that may try to divide us. Our darkest day will always be followed by a brighter morning.”
08.01.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after supporting a debt compromise package (S. 365) of nearly $1 trillion in initial spending cuts over the next decade: "This debt deal is not perfect but this compromise, which passed today with my support, begins to restore fiscal sanity by cutting spending by a larger amount than the debt limit is increased and capping future spending to limit the growth of government; avoiding the consequences of a default without raising taxes or cutting seniors’ benefits,” said Reichert. I am encouraged by the fact that this compromise will provide an incentive for the Administration to rally support for a balanced budget amendment, which I feel is essential to ensuring long-term fiscal accountability. “This solution lives up to guiding principles that Americans on both sides of the aisle have called for throughout this debate. I am hopeful that we can continue down this path – setting partisanship aside to put our nation on a sustainable fiscal path, protect taxpayers, and bring much-needed economic recovery.”
07.29.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after voting in favor of the Budget Control Act (S. 627), which passed the House by a vote of 218-210. The legislation would rein in federal spending over the next decade, guarantee consideration of a balanced budget amendment, and couple a debt limit increase with immediate cuts to ensure the United States can meet its financial obligations: "Throughout this debate on the federal deficit, I have held firm in my position that the amount of spending cuts should be higher than an increase in the debt limit,” said Reichert. “Reckless spending and excessive borrowing put us in this position, but the bill passed today puts forth a plan to put our country back on a sound fiscal path without cutting Social Security benefits or raising taxes on families and small businesses struggling in tough economic times. “Congress and the President must put politics aside and work together to do what’s right to keep America great. Americans are watching. The whole world is watching. We don’t have time to waste on partisan bickering. We have to get our fiscal house in order. Now, the Senate must swiftly consider this proposal or pass its own.”
07.29.2011	Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Gwen Moore (D-WI) joined together to introduce the SAFE Teen Act, legislation to help schools address the problem of teen dating violence. U.S. Senators Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced the companion bill in the Senate. “This nation’s greatest asset is our children. Our shared future depends on their success and we can’t let dating violence limit their aspirations,” said Representative Dave Reichert. “Teen dating violence, unfortunately, occurs in all of our communities and contributes to the increasing school drop-out rates nationwide. To reverse this trend, I am proud to support the SAFE Teen Act, which will provide resources for comprehensive awareness, education, and prevention programs designed to combat teen dating violence. By recognizing this problem and acting to address it, we can teach the next generation valuable lessons that will allow them to succeed in schools and beyond.” “Young women aren’t immune to dating violence, and in fact, many will unfortunately experience it in one form or another. We need to make sure we’re talking to our children about dating violence so that they can identify signs to stop these patterns and hopefully prevent it altogether,” said Representative Gwen Moore. “Our children’s safety and well-being is always our top priority, and this bill takes a proactive step in protecting our children from dangerous relationships—and their lifelong consequences,” said Senator Crapo. “The SAFE Teen Act enables schools to tackle dating violence with awareness and prevention initiatives that will continue the steady progress that we have already made in combating teen dating violence within our schools and communities.” “Teen dating violence is a growing threat to the safety of our children. We must make sure that young people can recognize warning signs in their relationships and that our schools have the resources to help prevent dating violence. This bipartisan legislation would provide schools with the resources needed to create effective prevention and awareness programs,” said Senator Whitehouse. About 72 percent of 8th and 9th graders report dating; 1 in 4 adolescents reports emotional, physical, or sexual violence each year; and 1 in 10 adolescents reports being a victim of physical dating violence. Over 40 percent of young people who report they are victims of dating violence say that the incidents occurred in a school building or on school grounds. The Stop Abuse for Every Teen Act or SAFE Teen Act would: Authorize schools to use existing grant funding for teen dating violence prevention Highlight teen dating violence prevention as part of the comprehensive, community prevention program, Safe Schools, Healthy Students, that already funds prevention activities Support better teen dating violence data to understand the scope of the problem as well as having a means of measuring the impact of prevention programs and policies Support promising practices to further replicate, refine and test prevention models The legislation does not include any mandates and is budget neutral without any additional funding. At least 15 states have passed teen dating violence laws that urge or require school boards to develop curriculum on teen dating violence, most without additional funding or guidance. The federal legislation attempts to correct this problem by allowing schools to incorporate teen dating violence prevention into existing school safety programs. Schools are also encouraged to train school personnel on the issue and incorporate response mechanisms into school policies. The legislation is supported by Futures Without Violence, and a coalition of domestic violence and education advocacy organizations that support the legislation, including the National Education Association, American Federation of Teachers, Love is Not Abuse Coalition, Jewish Women International, Girl Scouts of the USA, and RAINN.
07.14.2011	U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, affirmed their commitment to oppose the proposed elimination of the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) after the House Appropriations Committee today failed to restore any of its funding. The proposed elimination of the COPS Office is included in the FY2012 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which may soon come to the House floor for a vote. The COPS Office’s programs include the COPS Hiring Program, which this year made $240 million in federal aid available to help communities keep police officers on the job. The COPS office received nearly $2.5 billion in applications from local police departments for these grants in the past year. “I am disgusted that the Appropriations Committee passed on today’s opportunity to adequately support local law enforcement agencies and instead eliminated a vital program that has helped keep our communities safe for years,” said Reichert. “Even in this time of limited resources, I believe most Members of Congress and the American public would agree that ensuring our communities are protected from crime and terrorism is a worthy investment. This situation must be fixed. This fight is not over and I intend to bring this matter to the House floor and work with my colleagues to correct to this shortsighted mistake.” "While I am disappointed in the House Appropriations Committee's lack of action today, I know that the majority of our colleagues in the full House will understand that providing for public safety is not wasteful spending, it's responsible government and part of our national security. I hope it does not take a disaster – natural or terrorist – for Members to reach that understanding," said Pascrell, a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees. "I recognize the need to live within our means and budget responsibility. But that does not mean unwisely sacrificing the safety and security of our communities. Our nation’s first responders represent our first and last lines of our homeland security. Our cops sacrifice themselves everyday to keep us safe. Now let’s return the favor and join together, Democrats and Republicans, to restore this program and continue to keep both our cops and communities safe." The Law Enforcement Caucus co-chairmen were joined at yesterday's news conference by several law enforcement organizations: National Association of Police Organizations, National Troopers Coalition, International Association of Chiefs of Police, National Sheriffs’ Association and U.S. Conference of Mayors. Earlier this year, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell rallied 115 House members – a group comprised of Democrats and Republicans – to sign a May 20 letter to Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chaka Fattah urging for sufficient COPS Hiring Program funding. Since it was first instituted during the Clinton Administration, the COPS Program has awarded more than $13.5 billion in awards – including $7.5 billion for COPS Hiring – to advance community policing nationwide. The COPS Program’s awarding of more than 42,400 community policing grants have added more than 100,000 police officers to our streets and funded more than 13,600 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.
07.13.2011	U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), co-chairs of the House Law Enforcement Caucus, held a news conference with seven other Members and representatives of law enforcement organizations to oppose the proposed elimination of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office. The proposed elimination of the COPS Office is included in the FY2012 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which is scheduled to be marked up by the House Committee on Appropriations on Wednesday. The COPS Office’s programs include the COPS Hiring Program, which this year made $240 million in federal aid available to help communities keep police officers on the job. The COPS office received nearly $2.5 billion in applications from local police departments for these grants in the past year. “Congress should craft legislation with the safety of our neighborhoods in the forefront of our minds,” said Reichert. “The task of allocating limited resources inherently prompts tough choices – I understand that – but eliminating an effective office that enables local law enforcement agencies to keep officers on the street, checking in on businesses, and monitoring our schools, is irresponsible. I urge my colleagues to see the value in an office that I can personally attest to after 33 years in law enforcement. It would be shortsighted to close the doors to the COPS office without considering the impact it will have on the safety of communities across our country.” "In these times of state and local budget cuts, layoffs and department closures remain a huge worry for state and local law enforcement. This is a story you hear all across the country," said Pascrell, a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees. "I recognize the need to live within our means and budget responsibility. But that does not mean unwisely sacrificing the safety and security of our communities. Our nation’s first responders represent our first and last lines of our homeland security. Our cops sacrifice themselves everyday to keep us safe. Now let’s return the favor and join together, Democrats and Republicans, to restore this program and continue to keep both our cops and communities safe." The Law Enforcement Caucus co-chairmen were joined at the news conference by seven of their Congressional Colleagues: U.S. Rep. John Conyers (D-MI), U.S. Rep. Mike Grimm (R-NY), U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), U.S. Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), U.S. Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ), U.S. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), and U.S. Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). Among the law enforcement organizations that were represented at the event were National Association of Police Organizations, National Troopers Coalition, International Association of Chiefs of Police, National Sheriffs’ Association and U.S. Conference of Mayors. Earlier this year, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell rallied 115 House members – a group comprised of Democrats and Republicans – to sign a May 20 letter to Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chaka Fattah urging for sufficient COPS Hiring Program funding. Since it was first instituted during the Clinton Administration, the COPS Program has awarded more than $13.5 billion in awards – including $7.5 billion for COPS Hiring – to advance community policing nationwide. The COPS Program’s awarding more than 42,400 community policing grants have added more than 100,000 police officers to our streets and funded more than 13,600 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.
07.07.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and the President’s Export Council, today released the following statement after the Committee held “mock markups” of the pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama as the Administration prepares to submit them for congressional consideration: “Four years is far too long for job-creating trade deals to sit on the back burner, especially while competitors around the world race ahead to open new markets and jeopardize our opportunities to create American jobs,” said Reichert. “We need to be competitive in that race – selling American to create jobs – and today’s committee review of the pending free trade agreements is an important step toward moving these no-cost, proven stimulus measures closer to long overdue passage. “I have long championed the US-Korea trade agreement because of its potential to immensely improve Washington state’s ability to export American products and create local jobs. Selling American to South Korea would create more than 70,000 American jobs, generate billions of dollars in new business activity, and advance a robust new standard for intellectual property rights protections that will enable innovators across the country to sell American products around the world. I expect the Administration will take today’s action to heart and swiftly submit these three trade agreements to Congress for approval.” With the completion of today’s “mock-markups,” action now awaits the Administration formally submitting the three agreements to Congress. Implementing text of the agreements would then be introduced and reviewed by the House Ways and Means Committee as the last step before a vote of the full House of Representatives.BACKGROUNDSpeaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
07.06.2011	Continuing in their commitment to keep American communities as safe as possible, U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) today blasted the proposed elimination of the federal Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office included in the FY2012 appropriations bill released today by the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee. The legislation is scheduled to be marked up by the Subcommittee tomorrow. The COPS Office’s programs include the COPS Hiring Program, which this year made $240 million in federal aid available to help communities keep police officers on the job. The COPS office received nearly $2.5 billion in applications from local police departments for these grants. Earlier this year, Reps. Reichert and Pascrell, co-chairs of the bipartisan House Law Enforcement Caucus, rallied 115 House members – a group comprised of Democrats and Republicans – to sign a May 20 letter to Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chaka Fattah urging for sufficient COPS Hiring Program funding. “I understand that in a time of limited resources tough choices need to be made but the federal government should never ignore its most important responsibility to its citizens; providing safety and security,” said Reichert. “The local law enforcement officers that keep our homes and businesses safe deserve continued investment. As a former law enforcement officer for 33 years, I have seen firsthand the positive impact that the COPS program has in our communities – putting more officers on the beat and in our schools. At a time when we not only ask our law enforcement community to patrol our streets but also protect our homeland from foreign and domestic terrorist threats, it is simply irresponsible to eliminate a program that helps them safely fulfill the duty to which they are so selflessly committed.” “Those who drafted this mockery of a bill are confused about what constitutes luxuries and necessities in our national budget,” said Pascrell, a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees. “Our police are our first line of defense against threats to our homeland security, whether they walk the beat in our major cities or patrol neighborhoods in our small towns. Eliminating COPS will exacerbate the difficulties cash-strapped communities face in keeping police on the job and Americans as safe as possible. I fear cuts of this magnitude, if implemented, will have direct impact upon crime rates and will cost innocent lives needlessly. I call upon my colleagues to restore funding to the COPS program tomorrow.” Since it was first instituted during the Clinton Administration, the COPS Program has awarded more than $13.5 billion in awards – including $7.5 billion for COPS Hiring – to advance community policing nationwide. The COPS Program’s awarding more than 42,400 community policing grants have added more than 100,000 police officers to our streets and funded more than 13,600 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.
07.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the released the following statement in observance of Independence Day: “Setting aside the challenges that currently face our nation, today I encourage my fellow citizens to focus on the pride they should have as Americans,” said Reichert. “Our vast and remarkable nation began 235 years ago as a noble idea; planted like a seed by a brave group who believed in a government of the people, by the people, for the people. Over generations, we have fostered the growth of this idea and shaped its expansion. We have protected the concept of liberty, fought for it, and the loyal men and women of our Armed Forces have selflessly carried the torch of freedom to those whose lives have been darkened by tyranny. “The political issues that occasionally divide us are insignificant when held up to the unifying American spirit that binds us to each other, a shared past, and a promising future. As you enjoy celebrating the holiday, take a moment to reflect on that connection. Have a safe and memorable Independence Day.”
06.24.2011	A bipartisan group of lawmakers introduced legislation this afternoon aimed at continuing federal tax breaks for volunteer firefighters and first responders throughout the country. The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act, sponsored by U.S. Reps John Larson (CT-01), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Tammy Baldwin (WI-02), and Tom Latham (IA-04), looks to help states and municipalities attract and retain first responders. “The brave men and women that volunteer to put their well-being on the line every day for their families, friends and neighbors embody the best qualities of all Americans,” Congressman Larson said. “This legislation allows us to say thank you to them and encourage others throughout the country to follow their lead and volunteer to serve in their communities.” “As a first responder for 33 years before coming to Congress and joining the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, I will continue to work to see this important tax exemption preserved,” said Reichert. “I strongly support proposals that encourage this type of volunteerism by protecting first responders from taxes that are the result of their service. The volunteer first responders that work to keep our communities safe don’t ask for anything in return but I believe the least we can do for them is preserve the modest tax exemption they receive. It’s the right thing to do.” “Volunteer firefighters and emergency responders provide an invaluable service to their communities and the American people,” said Congresswoman Baldwin. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in leading legislation that will benefit these brave Americans and encourage volunteer service across the country,” Baldwin said. According to the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC), volunteer first responders serve up to 38 percent of the population and save taxpayers roughly $40 billion per year. The bill reauthorizes Rep. Larson’s original legislation, the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2007, which expired at the end of last year. Today’s legislation reestablishes the ability of volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel to exempt taxable benefits provided by state and local units of government until 2015, and increases the annual cap to $600. “Our community volunteer firefighters and emergency responders are the people we all look to for help and safety in times of crisis,” Congressman Latham said. “This legislation is a common-sense way to encourage the important work of our community first responders, and I’m proud to work with my colleagues to help these selfless Americans.” In a letter to the Members, the Congressional Fire Service Institute, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Association of Towns and Townships and National Volunteer Fire Council offered support for the legislation: “On behalf of the nation’s volunteer emergency responders and the communities that they protect, we applaud you for introducing this important legislation to prevent a tax increase on volunteer emergency responders and look forward to working with you to ensure its passage.”
06.23.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the statement below after supporting final passage of the America Invents Act (H.R. 1249), a bill that will help improve the business environment by making common sense updates to the nation’s patent laws. The bipartisan measure passed the House by a vote of 304-117. “The changes made today will help our patent system keep pace with a new era of American inventors, developers, and entrepreneurs,” said Reichert. “Puget Sound residents certainly understand that new technological breakthroughs can generate significant business activity and create jobs. America’s position as a global economic leader depends upon facilitating and encouraging new ideas to come to market – and ensuring government doesn’t get in the way of such promising innovations. Innovators should be able to dedicate their time to turning their ideas into realities, not trudging through bureaucratic obstacles or litigation. By modernizing the patent process, we protect intellectual property, remove unnecessary burdens on American businesses and give them – both large and small – the opportunity to grow, thrive, and hire more workers.”BACKGROUNDThe last major patent reform was nearly 60 years ago. The current system is bogged down by frivolous lawsuits and uncertainty regarding patent ownership. Innovators often spend years and millions of dollars defending their claims to patent ownership. Meanwhile, our competitors are busy developing new products that expand their businesses and grow their economies. This year, for the first time, China is expected to become the world’s number one patent publisher, surpassing the U.S. and Japan in the total and basic number of patents. H.R. 1249 updates our patent system to encourage innovation, job creation, and economic growth. The America Invents Act implements a first-inventor-to-file standard for patent approval, creates a post-grant review system to weed out bad patents, and helps the Patent and Trademark Office address the backlog of patent applications. The bill has broad support from local industry leaders (Microsoft), academic institutions (University of Washington) and independent inventors. Earlier this year, the Senate passed patent reform legislation by a vote of 95-5.
06.23.2011	(Washington, DC) – Today, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), the bipartisan co-chairs of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, and 9 other House Members introduced H.R. 2269, the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act of 2011, to reauthorize programs that assist firefighters, first responders, and local communities nationwide with the equipment, training, and personnel needed to protect the public from fires and other emergencies. Congressman David Reichert (R-WA) said, “As a co-chair of the Fire Services Caucus, I am proud to support the renewal of important programs that help our nation’s first responders safely and effectively protect our families,” said Reichert. “This legislation was crafted in careful consultation with leading firefighters’ organizations and provides necessary support to both career and volunteer firefighters. A similar proposal passed the House last Congress with my support, and I remain committed to doing all I can to ensure local firehouses are able to recruit staff, retain firefighters, and provide excellent service to citizens.” Fires remain a serious problem in America. More people die in fires in the U.S. than from all other natural disasters combined. On average, 3,600 citizens die in structure fires each year, and over 100 firefighters are killed in the line of duty. In addition to these fatalities, there are thousands of injuries and over $10 billion in property lost each year. “The FIRE grants provide critical resources to local fire departments, allowing them to maintain the firefighters and equipment that they need. Reauthorization of these programs is even more critical in the face of an unprecedented wildfire season in Texas that has seen more than 12,000 fires burning a staggering 3 million acres since November,” said Ranking Member Johnson. “In this tough economy, federal support is even more important as local officials struggle to provide essential services in the face of decreasing budgets. We need to ensure that our firefighters and emergency medical personnel, those who are the first at the scene of an emergency, have the tools they need to keep us safe.” “This legislation is imperative to providing first responders with the necessary capabilities and equipment to protect our communities from a variety of threats and dangers,” said Congressman Peter King (R-NY). H.R. 2269 reauthorizes the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program which expired in FY 2009 and FY 2010 respectively. The AFG program provides funds to local fire departments to purchase equipment, vehicles, and training. The SAFER program helps fire departments hire firefighting personnel to meet voluntary national consensus standards on safe minimum staffing levels. Both the AFG and SAFER programs are administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The bill authorizes $1 billion for the AFG program per fiscal year from FY2012 to FY2016, and an additional $1.194 billion per fiscal year from FY2012 to FY2016 for the SAFER program. Additionally, the legislation makes some changes to the current programs to make it easier for local fire departments to take advantage of AFG and SAFER funding, such as lowering the matching requirements for the AFG program and modifying the time and matching commitments for the SAFER program. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) authored the F.I.R.E. (Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement) Act, which became law in 2000. The law established the only federal program that delivers grant dollars directly to fire departments. The program, now titled the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG), is administered by the Department of Homeland Security. The nation’s 32,000 career, volunteer and combination fire departments can apply for federal grants to purchase the equipment, training, and vehicles needed to serve their communities. In 2003, Rep. Pascrell sponsored legislation creating the SAFER (Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response) grant program to provide federal support for staffing of local fire departments. “Many local governments continue to face tough budget decisions, and it is unfortunate that cuts to their public safety services are even considered,’ said Pascrell. “This reauthorization makes many important improvements to the AFG and SAFER programs that will allow local fire departments to continue to obtain the basic staff and equipment needed to keep the people they serve as safe as possible.” The bill reflects fire-service stakeholder input and is supported by the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the National Fire Protection Association, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute. The bill is nearly identical to legislation that was unanimously passed out of the Science and Technology Committee in the 111th Congress and then passed overwhelmingly by the House on November 18, 2009 by a vote of 395 – 31, but never made it out of the Senate. Original cosponsors of the Fire Grants Act include: Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, Rep. Bill Pascrell, Rep. Peter King, Rep. David Reichert, Rep. Steny Hoyer, Rep. Steven LaTourette, Rep. Robert Andrews, Rep. Mark Critz, Rep. David Wu, Rep. Ben Ray Luján, Rep. Daniel Lipinski, Rep. Hansen Clarke, Rep. John Sarbanes, Rep. Michael Michaud, and Rep. Michael Grimm.
06.03.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the statement below after supporting a bipartisan resolution (H.Res. 292) that reinforces Congressional oversight over the use of American armed forces by declaring that the Administration did not properly seek authorization to deploy or conduct military operations in Libya. The resolution would also require the Administration to define a direction for the conflict and report their findings to Congress within 14 days. “The decision to put American troops in harm’s way by using military force in this increasingly complex world has always required the review of the American people through their representatives in Congress,” said Reichert. “I have grave concerns about the scope and implications of our involvement in Libya, and I expect the President will heed the bipartisan call of Congress to present a clearly defined mission. I hope that the President will see today’s vote as a reminder that Congress must be consulted before the United States makes military promises to our allies, and moves swiftly to present a clear plan of action.”
06.01.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today introduced the bipartisan U.S. Optimal Use of Trade to Develop Outerwear and Outdoor Recreation (OUTDOOR) Act (H.R. 2071) to reduce tariffs on recreational performance apparel. The legislation would make products like jackets and pants more affordable for American consumers, encourage participation in outdoor activities, and help designers and retailers of performance apparel better compete in the global economy. “The enjoyment and exploration of the outdoors is not just a cornerstone of American recreation, but it is also the basis of a major job-creating industry,” said Rep. Reichert. “Many local businesses cater to this adventurous spirit, and I am happy to have found yet another instance in which smart trade policy can help these employers spur growth, remove a hidden tax on consumers, and foster greater interest in outdoor recreation. This bill is a needed update to the antiquated, unreasonably high tariffs set on recreational performance apparel that will both boost sales and enable families to more affordably outfit themselves for weekend camping trips and summer vacations. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the House Ways and Means Committee to advance this bipartisan bill and identify other ways to help Americans benefit from effective trade policies.” “More than 75 percent of Americans participate in active outdoor recreation each year, experiencing America’s wild lands in ways large and small, expanding rural economies, and supporting the great companies that create innovative gear,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I’m proud that this legislation will reduce the high tariffs on performance outerwear and expand consumer choice.” "The sale of performance outwear for hiking, biking, skiing, snowboarding, paddling and other outdoor activities is a major driver of business for outdoor companies. The U.S. OUTDOOR Act helps encourage the development of innovative and affordable performance outwear, which in turn supports the enjoyment of the outdoors by consumers," said Matt Hyde, Executive Vice President of REI. "We appreciate the leadership of Congressman Reichert and the other sponsors in supporting a vibrant and growing industry that benefits both the economy and the promotion of healthy, active outdoor activities."BACKGROUND The outdoor industry contributes $730 billion to the U.S. economy each year. Current duties on these goods are at rates far exceeding any state sales tax despite the fact that, in recent years, both the United States International Trade Commission and the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements have concluded that imports of recreational performance apparel do not disrupt domestic markets or adversely affect domestic producers. H.R. 2071 creates new Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) breakouts for both knit and woven recreational performance outerwear and changes tariff rates for these clothing items to duty-free, thereby eliminating the “hidden tax” on these goods.
05.31.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after joining a bipartisan majority of representatives in rejecting an unconditional increase of the federal debt limit: "It’s irresponsible to raise the debt limit without addressing the root of the problem: the out-of-control spending that put our nation in this precarious position,” said Reichert. “I don’t want families and employers in my district to endure the continued drag of massive budget deficits. Anyone who balances a checkbook understands that the government’s record spending levels are unsustainable and unacceptable. Congress must arrive at a bipartisan consensus to substantially rein in spending and reduce deficits on the way to balancing the budget.”
05.31.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement recognizing the sacrifice of Americans, past and present, who have given their lives in the defense of freedom: "While today is expressly designated as Memorial Day, we observe and remember the purpose of this day year round,” said Reichert. “Our military men and women represent the most courageous aspects of the American spirit. Our appreciation for their service only makes it more tragic whenever one of our soldiers does not come home.” “Generation after generation of Americans have sent parents, husbands, wives, and children off to protect the ideals and freedoms that make this country great. In a world full of conflict, the soldier’s mission is a perilous one, and yet our servicemembers consistently rise to the call of duty because they know it is critically important that they do so. We are indebted to those who gave their lives to maintain our freedom. We thank the fallen for contributing to the preservation of our way of life and for carrying the torch of freedom to light the way for those whose lives have been darkened by injustice and tyranny. To all those who paid this ultimate price: thank you for your extraordinary service and sacrifice.”
05.25.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA) today introduced the bipartisan Community Forestry Conservation Act (H.R. 1982), which would enable non-profit conservation organizations to use bonds to purchase private, working forests for long-term environmental and economic sustainability management. A broad coalition of conservationists, private landowners, and the timber industry endorsed the legislation for its pragmatic approach to balancing conservation and business interests. “This important bill fosters needed public-private partnerships to meet the dual needs of conserving open spaces for future generations and sustaining the forest products jobs that depend on managing working forests,” said Rep. Reichert. “I’m proud to carry forward my predecessor Jennifer Dunn’s legacy in sponsoring this pragmatic legislation that unites such diverse interests behind shared goals.” “Working forests are an important source of jobs and income in Northern California,” said Rep. Thompson. “Our economy depends on healthy forests, and forest conservation bonds provide an important tool to preserve these resources. By encouraging sustainable management practices, this bill will save jobs and our nation’s forests for future generations.” “Our communities have an urgent need for a financing mechanism that would provide stable, long-term capital to purchase working forests and prevent their conversion,” said Gene Duvernoy, President of the Seattle-based Cascade Land Conservancy. “Community Forestry Bonds conserve working forests and the jobs that go with them, protect the environment and respect landowners’ rights. Those are the key elements of The Cascade Agenda. “The Cascade Agenda’s goals are to conserve 1.3 million acres of working forests, farmlands and natural areas and to create vibrant, livable communities. Community Forestry Bonds are a critical tool for achieving these goals,” Duvernoy added. “This legislation provides an economic incentive, or funding mechanism, to maintain renewable working forests. The forestry bonds will allow public, private and non-profit interests to protect rural landscapes and rural community jobs by keeping land in working forests,” said Rick Holley, CEO of Plum Creek. Plum Creek is the nation’s largest private landowner, with approximately 6.7 million acres of timberlands in major timber producing regions of the United States. “Forest conservation bonds are an innovative tool that enables the forest conservation and timber industry communities to join together to purchase working forests, prevent their development, and increase the level of environmental protection. It’s a win-win for jobs and conservation at no significant cost to taxpayers,” remarked Athan Manuel, Director of the Lands Protection Program for the Sierra Club.COMMUNITY FORESTRY CONSERVATION ACT (H.R. 1982)The US Forest Service estimates that over one million acres of America’s private forests are lost each year to land conversion and development. H.R. 1982 modifies the tax code to allow municipal revenue bonds to be issued for the acquisition of forestland by a qualified buyer. The low-cost bonds would be backed by the revenue stream generated by the sustainable management of the land. This new tool will provide a mechanism for acquisition of lands that are at a high risk of parcelization and for other lands that may be difficult for long-term commercial management. Such acquisition protects the land from development and fragmentation while allowing jobs that depend on harvesting to continue. The bill could conserve an estimated 2.2 million acres of working forests throughout the country.
05.13.2011	Today, with National Police Week approaching, Rep. Anthony Weiner (D – Queens and Brooklyn), a long-time champion of the Community Oriented Policing Services (C.O.P.S.) program, Rep. John Conyers (D – MI), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D – NJ) and Dave Reichert (R – WA), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan House Law Enforcement Caucus, and other members of the Law Enforcement Caucus announced legislation to reauthorize the program and help put more than 19,000 additional police officers on our nation’s streets over six years, including nearly 1,330 new cops to fight crime and terrorism in New York City. Weiner’s legislation comes as both federal and local governments are increasing security and police presence nationwide after concerns about possible retaliation from Al Qaeda following the death of Osama bin Laden, and after a foiled plot to attack synagogues in New York City. Earlier this year, the GOP attempted to eliminate $298 million in funding to the C.O.P.S. program, which would have removed over 1,300 officers from the streets. In February, the House passed an amendment, authored by Weiner, to restore funding to the program and keep beat cops on the street. Now, under Weiner’s legislation, state and local governments would be provided with additional funding to help add officers to protect the streets and encourage them to hire former soldiers as police officers. The NYPD and police departments across the country would also be able to use C.O.P.S. funds on “terrorism cops” – police officers that specialize in homeland security and combating terrorism. As law enforcement agencies nationwide, including the City, face increasingly tight budgets, it is more important than ever to ensure that state governments and localities have the funding they need to keep our streets safe. “The COPS program is a proven winner, cutting crime and making neighborhoods safe both in New York City and across the nation,” Rep. Weiner said. “More cops on the streets means less violent crimes and greater vigilance against terrorism. It just makes sense.” "With thousands of cops laid off across the country since this economic crisis began, the COPS program is needed more than ever," said U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-8). " Since June 2010, New Jersey has 3600 fewer cops on the streets. In my hometown, Paterson, NJ, budget cuts recently forced lay offs of 125 police officers, one quarter of their entire force. But now, the COPS program is making it possible for 25-30 of those officers to be hired back this summer." “As law enforcement officers from across the country come to Washington, DC to observe Peace Officers Memorial Day, I can’t think of a more appropriate time for Congress to show its support for their service and sacrifice,” said Reichert. “After 33 years with the King County Sheriff’s Office, I know that one of the most important things that cops need to know is that their community supports them; including all levels of local, state, and federal government. This bill sends a message that their importance, and their work, has not gone unnoticed. The COPS program not only provides vital technical assistance and support to our men and women in uniform but, more importantly, replaces the cops in our neighborhoods who have been assigned to homeland security, cross-state crime, and internet crime task forces. Every day, law enforcement officers selflessly commit themselves to protecting our businesses, homes, and families. Today, with this proposal, we renew our partnership with these brave men and women and demonstrate our resolve - we will do our part to help our officers effectively and safely carry out their duties.” “I support the COPS Program wholeheartedly, and find it imperative to introduce the COPS Improvements Act, as it would make the COPS program stronger at a time when it is needed more than ever,” Conyers said. “These days, state and local governments are facing stringent financial constraints that keep them in need of the necessary resources to keep our streets safe. Some jurisdictions are actually laying off police officers. Since its inception in the Clinton Administration, the COPS Program has funded the hiring of more than 122,000 state and local police officers and sheriff’s deputies in communities across America. We must reaffirm our commitment to a program that hires more officers and creates jobs.” “As the son of a New York City cop, I understand just how essential the brave men and women who serve our communities are to keeping us safe from crime and other threats,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D – Queens, the Bronx). “That’s why I have long supported bolstering the COPS program, and I will continue to do so. Now, more than ever, it is critical that we provide the resources needed to protect NYC and communities across the country. I thank Rep. Weiner for his leadership on such a critical issue for not only our home state of New York, but for the entire nation.” “The COPS grant program has been successful for many years, and I have supported it from the start. It not only adds police to our streets, but gives them the equipment and technology needed to fight crime,” said Rep. Eliot Engel (D – New York). “Thanks to the COPS program, crime has dropped in cities and towns nationwide, and in my district alone, millions of dollars have bolstered our police forces from New York City to the many others serving in Rockland and Westchester Counties. It is essential that we stay vigilant in our fight against crime and passing this legislation is an important component to achieve it.” “The COPS program has a record of success in putting more cops on the beat, where they help keep our communities safe and secure from the age-old threat of crime and the newer danger of terrorism. The federal support for law enforcement is especially important for the many states and towns that are experiencing budget problems and have a hard time keeping their police payrolls where they should be. This is well spent money for an important cause,” said Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D – New Jersey). “At a time when we have seen state governments across the country make drastic cuts to local fire and police departments, now more than ever, it is critically important for Congress to provide reassurance and a commitment to those men and women who protect our communities and keep our streets safe. The C.O.P.S. program is essential to the security of our neighborhoods and our country,” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D – Texas) said. “American law enforcement is under attack by the criminal element. 2011 is shaping up to be the deadliest year for law enforcement in the recent history,” said Tom Nee, President of the National Association of Police Organizations. “This legislation is critical for the safety of our communities and law enforcement to continue our work.” Specifically, the legislation would: · Provide $600 million nationwide each year to localities to hire additional beat cops or rehire officers. · Add an estimated 19,000 new beat cops nationwide, including nearly 1,330 in New York City, over the next six years. · Encourages localities to hire former soldiers as police officers and to hire police officers to focus on homeland security and terrorism. Created in 1994 by President Clinton, the C.O.P.S. program provides localities with a 3-year federal grant for the specific purpose of hiring new police officers. Localities are required to pick up 25% of the cost of the new hire each year and to keep the officer on staff for an additional year. Grants have provided localities with $9 billion since 1994 to hire 117,000 police officers nationwide, including nearly 7,000 in New York City. The program has been enormously successful. Between 1998 and 2000, C.O.P.S. hiring grants were responsible for reducing crimes by about 200,000 to 225,000 crimes – one third of which were violent, according to a 2005 Government Accountability Office report. In 2007, Rep. Weiner introduced legislation that would put 50,000 more police officers on our nation’s streets, including 3,500 new cops to fight crime and terrorism in New York City. In 2009, the House passed Weiner's C.O.P.S. bill, which would add 50,000 new beat cops to streets over 5 years.
05.09.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the statement below after congratulating Griffin Running at Tahoma High School, for winning the 2011 Congressional Art Competition for Washington’s Eighth Congressional District with a work titled “Puddle.” Running was selected on Friday evening at a reception hosted by Reichert at Bellevue College. “The talent displayed at our annual art competition never fails to impress me and this year was no different which is why Griffin deserves the highest praise for receiving the 2011 honors,” Reichert said. “Using creativity and skill, Griffin met the extraordinary standard set by his older brother, who won last year’s art competition. “Across the state students are taking part in activities that celebrate Arts Education Month in Washington and I’m glad I can provide an opportunity for these students to showcase their talent and help raise awareness about the importance of arts education. We know how vital the arts are to developing the creative and critical thinking skills required for our students to become the future innovators that will drive our global economy. During my career as an investigator, I often found the ability to think ‘outside of the box’ was a real asset. These students have found new ways of expressing themselves and I encourage them to continue to do so. I applaud them for their effort and thank their parents and teachers for playing an active role in their ongoing educational development.” Running’s work will be unveiled in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol at the official National Reception in June and will remain on display for one year. Two students received honorable mention at the reception: Nadine Hyde for “Random Thought” and Samantha De Leon for “Self Portrait.”BACKGROUND Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building for an entire year. Over 650,000 students have participated since the competition’s inception, submitting remarkably unique and inspiring amateur artwork. Members of the U.S. House of Representatives are given the opportunity to honor these students in their local communities and bring national attention to their gifted constituents. Reichert is a long-time supporter of a well-rounded curriculum that includes emphasis in arts education. He is also a member of the Congressional Art Caucus and is a strong supporter of Arts Education Month in Washington state.
05.09.2011	The U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) announced today that Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) are the winners of the 2011 Amazing Investor Award. The Amazing Awards are presented annually in six categories to individuals and organizations having significant impact on the Paralympic movement in the United States. Honorees were recognized throughout the 2011 USOC Paralympic Leadership Conference. “The Paralympic Amazing Awards provide an opportunity to recognize those who are working tirelessly to help persons with physical and visual disabilities live healthy, active lives,” said USOC CEO Scott Blackmun. “The USOC is committed to supporting the growth of Paralympic sport across the country and we’re proud to honor all who are working toward this goal.” Rep. Reichert and Rep. Langevin were selected for the Amazing Investor Award for the instrumental role they play in the creation of resources in support of the Paralympic movement. Their work as co-chairs of the Congressional Olympic & Paralympic Caucus is helping to generate countless opportunities for youth, adults, veterans and military personnel with physical and visual disabilities to be physically active in their communities. “I am honored to receive the Amazing Investor Award and accept it on behalf of the athletes that motivate me,” said Rep. Reichert. “My work as co-chair of the Congressional Olympic and Paralympic Caucus frequently allows me to meet young people who strive for success and achieve it by overcoming incredible challenges. They teach and inspire me. It’s a privilege to be involved with and support the Olympic and Paralympic movement.” The Congressional Olympic & Paralympic Caucus serves as an informal, bipartisan group of members dedicated to educating their colleagues about the goals and spirit of Olympic-related athletic activity, increasing diversity in athletics, promoting clean and fair competition, expanding youth sport, introducing the benefits of sport to persons with physical and visual disabilities, supporting the U.S. Olympic Movement’s efforts to align with the International Olympic Movement, and enabling athletes to realize their Olympic and Paralympic dreams. “We owe it to our wounded warriors to ensure they have every opportunity to return to the healthy, active and productive lifestyle they want and deserve. The USOC Paralympic Military Program has provided that opportunity for more than 12,000 injured service members from the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts,” said Congressman Langevin. “I would like to thank the Chief of Paralympics, Charlie Huebner, for his leadership, and all of the wonderful people at the U.S. Olympic Committee for making this effort possible. It is an honor to support this successful program. I will continue to fight for resources to broaden this effective initiative to reach more of the brave men and women who have so selflessly served our country.” The 2011 USOC Paralympic Leadership Conference brought more than 400 community, government and military leaders together for three days of interactive learning sessions, collaboration and networking. The goal of the conference is to provide key audiences the tools and inspiration needed to implement and support successful Paralympic sport programs in their communities. In addition to the Amazing Investor Award, honorees were recognized with the Amazing Leader, Amazing Sport Club, Amazing Impact, Amazing Mentor and Amazing Salute awards. A complete list of award winners is available on the U.S. Paralympics website. To learn more about the USOC Paralympic Leadership Conference, please visit www.usparalympics.org/leadershipconference. For more information, please contact the USOC Communications Division at (719)866-4529 or visit www.teamusa.org.
05.05.2011	Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Shelley Berkley (NV-01) today introduced H.R. 1738, the Teacher Tax Relief Act, a proposal that would increase and make permanent the tax deduction available for teachers purchasing classroom supplies with their personal income and expand the deduction to include expenses associated with professional development pursuits. “Our teachers have nobly accepted the serious responsibility to educate our children and help them develop into successful, productive citizens,” Reichert said. “In these difficult economic times, school districts across the country are dealing with deep budget cuts and our teachers are doing what they can to pick up the slack. They’re paying for basic supplies such as paper, pencils, and scissors out of their own pockets - stepping up because they’re committed to providing students the best education possible. It’s critical that we stand alongside our teachers and demonstrate our continued commitment to their efforts by extending this common sense tax relief to encourage continuing education pursuits and remove any future uncertainty by making this deduction permanent.” “In my home town of Las Vegas, Clark County School District teachers are seeing school resources shrink even as their classroom needs continue to grow,” Berkley said. “These dedicated teachers often make up for shortfalls in the classroom by selflessly opening their own wallets to provide important learning materials. Our legislation will allow hard-working teachers in Nevada and others like them all across the nation to receive a tax incentive to help cover the cost of these expenditures. This bill also expands tax deductions to cover professional development so teachers can continue to hone their skills as educators. America’s teachers deserve the financial stability and peace of mind this bill would provide as much as our children deserve educators who teach to the best of their abilities and are compensated fairly for their hard work and dedication.” "This important legislation from Rep. Reichert and Rep. Berkley recognizes the financial sacrifices made by teachers and paraprofessionals, who are spending more out of their own funds each year to supply their classrooms with essential items such as paper, pencils, and books," said Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association. "With states and local communities facing budget cuts, schools are getting squeezed and teachers are forced to do more with less. This bill will make a real difference for thousands of educators whose commitment to provide the best resources for their students often means digging deep into their wallets to purchase materials." Specifically, the Reichert/Berkley legislation would amend the Internal Revenue Code to increase and make permanent the maximum deduction allowed from $250 to $500 and would expand it to include qualified professional development expenses. The measure is referred to the tax-writing House Ways & Means Committee on which both Members serve. BACKGROUNDThe classroom expense deduction available for teachers is set to expire on December 31, 2011. This has created unnecessary uncertainty for teachers throughout the country, who are footing the bill for basic classroom supplies. The National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year, educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752. Additionally, teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our teachers and our children.
05.04.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and the President’s Export Council, released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement that it is ready to move forward with congressional consideration of the three pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama: “The Administration’s announcement that it is ready to move forward on job-creating trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama is welcome news,” said Reichert. “I have been working since 2007 to see that these agreements are approved; especially with Korea. Action on trade has never been more critical than now, because tariffs and other foreign trade barriers are costing American businesses, large and small, untold opportunities to grow and create jobs. As we sit on the sidelines, our competitors in the global marketplace - like China, Canada, and the EU - are leaving us in the dust, aggressively opening new markets, and costing us opportunities to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. I am eager for the Administration to swiftly submit these agreements for congressional approval, and I will continue working tirelessly to broaden support for trade and see this long-time goal through to the end.”BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the President’s Export Council: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
05.02.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement following President Obama's announcement that U.S. special forces have successfully killed international terrorist Osama bin Laden: “Tonight we learned that Osama bin Laden has been killed by U.S. troops in Pakistan. This event is a milestone in a decade-long global war on terror,” Reichert said. “Thanks to the bravery and courage of our military men and women, Osama bin Laden will no longer be able to encourage violence and do harm to those whose only supposed crime is valuing freedom. Justice was served and the world is a safer place without this monster. Again, I thank our military and intelligence personnel for their service and sacrifice. This would not have been possible without their diligence and commitment to this essential mission.”
04.29.2011	U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and the congressional delegation today concluded their three-day trip to Seoul with a visit to the Demilitarized Zone –the border between South and North Korea – and lunch with U.S troops and their families at Yongsan Garrison to thank them for their service. The group also met with leaders of South Korea’s Democratic Party and Grand National Party at Korea’s National Assembly to discuss the U.S.-South Korea Trade Agreement (KORUS). “Over the last few days we have had the opportunity to see first-hand the benefits that KORUS will bring to the economies of both the U.S. and Korea,” Locke said. “There is great demand for U.S. products -- from made-in-America cell phone components to life-saving medical equipment. This agreement will increase mutually beneficial trade, strengthen our economies and create jobs in both of our countries.” Locke also visited Seoul National University Hospital for a demonstration of Varian Medical Systems’ (Palo Alto, Calif.) advanced radiotherapy technology. Varian is the world leader in this life-saving, cancer treatment technology with approximately $34 million worth of annual sales to South Korea. Their equipment is manufactured in California and Utah and exported globally. Under the U.S.-South Korea trade agreement, the tariff on Varian’s products would be eliminated, making the company more competitive in the Korean market. During the trip, Locke and the congressional delegation met with South Korea’s key political leaders, including President Lee Myung-Bak, the Minister of Knowledge Economy, the Minister of Trade, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as American and South Korean business leaders, and university students. They stressed the importance of the U.S.-South Korea agreement to strengthening the countries’ economies and the bilateral relationship. Locke also visited Pantech’s manufacturing facility to see assembly of cell phones using high-tech U.S.-made components. "This trip has been an unforgettable experience. I appreciate the invitation from Secretary Locke, and I thank the people of Korea for their hospitality," U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-Wash.) said. "This visit has served to reinforce the economic benefits of the KORUS FTA to both the United States and to Korea. I look forward to sharing what I have learned on this trip as I continue working with my colleagues to promote the benefits of this agreement." “As a Korean War veteran, I couldn't have been more proud to witness today's 'Dynamic Korea.' Seoul's skyscrapers, booming businesses and rising apartment buildings are a testament to the resiliency and determination of the Korean people,” U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-N.Y.) said. “I remain optimistic that the U.S. Congress will soon ratify the pending free trade agreement between our two nations.” “It has been a successful trip and we understand the importance of and the depth of feeling South Koreans have about concluding KORUS," U.S. Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.) said. "We have been friends with South Korea for a long time, and they want us to recognize them for what they are – an economic powerhouse. The Korean government has made it clear this trade deal is a priority, and they were willing to show flexibility to ensure it is a win for both countries." "In today's world we need strong allies like South Korea more than ever,” U.S. Rep. Joseph Crowley (D-N.Y.) said. “Expanding our trade relationship is the right thing to do for America's national security as well as for growing our exports and maintaining U.S. competitiveness. I look forward to working to secure Congressional approval of KORUS upon our return to the U.S. And I want to thank South Korea for the warm welcome and hospitality they've shown to us throughout our visit." The U.S.-South Korea trade agreement is an integral part of the President’s efforts to increase opportunities for U.S. businesses, farmers and workers through improved access for their products and services in foreign markets. The agreement is the United States’ most commercially significant trade agreement in more than 16 years. South Korea is the United States’ 7th largest trading partner, and U.S. goods exports to South Korea through February 2011 jumped 10.9 percent compared to the same period in 2010. According to U.S. International Trade Commission estimates, the reduction of South Korean tariffs and tariff-rate quotas under the agreement on goods alone would add $10 billion to $11 billion to annual U.S. GDP. By expanding access to South Korea, the 12th largest economy in the world, the agreement will support tens of thousands of American jobs, open South Korea’s $580 billion services market to American companies, eliminate South Korean tariffs on 95 percent of U.S. exports of industrial and consumer goods within five years, and immediately eliminate South Korean tariffs on over two-thirds of U.S. agricultural exports. See updated photos from today’s events.
04.29.2011	Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Wally Herger (R-CA), and Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Charles Boustany (R-LA) sent a letter to AARP CEO Barry Rand seeking further clarification and information pertaining to concerns raised in a Ways and Means Committee hearing. The hearing focused on findings uncovered in the recently released “Behind the Veil: The AARP America Doesn’t Know,” a report exposing the conflict between AARP’s drive for profits and the best interests of its members. The report was turned over to the IRS earlier this month with a request by the three members asking the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to examine whether or not AARP ought to be permitted to retain its tax-exempt status. In the letter to Mr. Rand the three members wrote, “Based upon comments you or Lee Hammond, President of AARP, Inc., made at the hearing, there are a number of documents and answers that AARP agreed to provide the Subcommittees. Likewise, there are unresolved matters or areas that require further clarification. To that end, this letter is intended to follow up on those matters.” The letter calls on AARP to answer questions, share information and provide documentation by May 5, 2011 that was promised by AARP during a Committee hearing held on April 1, 2011. The members outlined fifteen requests in the six-page letter, which fall into three different categories. Examples of the questions and information requests from each of the three categories are included below:Information AARP agreed to provide during the hearing “[Please provide the Committee with] the amount of money AARP earned on the interest from holding insurance premiums for AARP-branded insurance products and the amount of taxes paid, if any, on the interest earned, in each of the last ten years. Also provide the length of time the premium money is held by AARP, in accordance with the contracts, for each AARP-branded insurance product.”Questions and clarifications related to inaccuracies or misstatements “When asked, ‘What percentage of AARP’s Medigap premiums will AARP keep in each year from 2011 until the current contract expires in 2017?’ you responded that, ‘I can’t answer the future. We have not talked about that.’ “Given that AARP’s Medigap contract with UnitedHealth Group runs through 2017, the royalty payment (defined as percentage of Medigap premiums retained by AARP) that AARP receives in future years covered under the contract should be readily available. Please provide us with information detailing the percentage of the Medigap premium that AARP will receive in 2011 through 2017.”Questions that were unanswered or that AARP refused to address “You were asked twice, by two different members, whether AARP would commit to forgoing any Exchange insurance product-related revenue, whether by royalty commission, or otherwise, beginning in 2014. You failed to answer the question both times it was asked. We would like you to answer this very simple question: “Will AARP commit to not endorsing or selling insurance in the government-run Exchanges? Will AARP decline any royalty, commission payments, licensing fees, or revenue from any insurance company that is related to an insurance product offered in the Exchange?” To read the full letter click here.
04.29.2011	U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and members of Congress met today with the President of the Republic of Korea Lee Myung-Bak at the Blue House. Locke, who is leading a bipartisan congressional delegation to build support for the passage of the U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement (KORUS), reinforced the importance of the bilateral commercial relationship as part of the two countries’ historic alliance and emphasized the importance of KORUS in spurring economic growth in both the U.S. and Korea. “Korea is a vital ally, a strong friend, and an important economic partner,” Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said. “KORUS is a win-win for both the U.S. and Korea. This agreement will strengthen our partnership and take it to the next level, by lowering tariffs and creating a more level playing field for businesses in both countries.” The congressional delegation consists of four members from the U.S. House of Representatives – Reps. Charles Rangel (D-NY), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Joseph Crowley (D-NY) and David Reichert (R-WA). Locke and the delegation discussed the benefits of KORUS for both the U.S. and Korea in productive bilateral meetings with Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Kim Sung-Hwan and Trade Minister Kim Jong-Hoon. Earlier in the day, they met with the Board of Governors of the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea, as well as top Korean business executives. Locke and the delegation also met with a diverse group of Korean university students over afternoon tea where they had an in-depth discussion about the youth perspective on KORUS and how various elements of the agreement will benefit the economic future of both countries. They talked about Korea’s impressive economic growth and its emerging economic leadership in the region and the world. “The United States, Korea, and the entire world are counting on bright, motivated people like all of you to help meet the challenges our nations face,” Locke said. “Many of these challenges can be solved with the leadership and management skills that you will bring to the table. With your talent, creativity and ingenuity, you have the power to make a real difference.” Tomorrow, Locke will give a keynote address at a luncheon hosted by the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea to discuss KORUS. He will also meet with his Korean counterpart, the Minister of Knowledge Economy Choi Joong-Kyung. The Secretary and the congressional delegation will tour a facility owned by Pantech, one of the largest mobile phone makers in Korea, and meet with members of Korea’s National Assembly. KORUS is the United States’ most commercially significant trade agreement in more than 16 years. Korea is the United States’ 7th largest trading partner, and U.S. goods exports to Korea through February 2011 jumped 10.9 percent compared to the same period in 2010. According to U.S. International Trade Commission estimates, the reduction of Korean tariffs and tariff-rate quotas under KORUS on goods alone would add $10 billion to $11 billion to annual U.S. GDP. By expanding access to Korea, the 12th largest economy in the world, the agreement will support tens of thousands of American jobs, open Korea’s $580 billion services market to American companies, eliminate Korean tariffs on 95 percent of U.S. exports of industrial and consumer goods within five years and immediately eliminate Korean tariffs on over two-thirds of U.S. agricultural exports. See pictures from the visit.
04.18.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today released the following statement regarding tax day: “I’m sure that the countertops and kitchen tables throughout my constituents’ homes have yet again been cluttered with calculators and dozens of tax forms,” Reichert said. “Our tax code is too complex, too time-consuming, and too costly. Each year, I hear from families that struggle to keep up with the ever-changing code; there were more than 500 changes in 2010 alone. And our job-creating small businesses across this country, instead of focusing on how to grow and hire workers, have to figure out a way to offset the $74-per-hour average they’re spending on tax compliance. It’s clearly time for common-sense tax reform that emphasizes simplicity and promotes growth. “Last week, I joined a bipartisan, bicameral group of legislators to introduce another common-sense tax bill: the tax receipt. The Taxpayer Receipt Act (H.R. 1527) would provide each American with an itemized tax receipt which shows how their money is being spent by the federal government as well as how much the federal government is borrowing in their name. I believe the federal government can and should live up to the same accountability and transparency standards observed by the small businesses throughout our communities.” A sample of what the tax receipt would look like can be seen here.
04.15.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement regarding the 2012 budget resolution that was voted on today in the U.S. House of Representatives: “While this budget serves only as a framework to advance the federal spending debate, I’m happy to see that it proposes significant steps toward reining in spending and putting our country back on a sustainable fiscal path,” Reichert said. “As a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, I will have direct jurisdiction over some of the most critical components of this budget – like tax reform and healthcare benefits – and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure that deficit reduction proposals are crafted in a responsible manner. “I’ve heard from my constituents and share their concerns about reductions in Pell Grants for low-income students, oil drilling expansion in our wilderness, and how entitlement reform could affect seniors and those approaching retirement. I support this proposal because it recommends spending cuts, avoids raising taxes on struggling families and job-creating small businesses, and reaffirms congressional authority to improve subsidy programs; all provisions in the blueprint passed today. While this budget is not perfect, it’s an important step in the right direction.”
04.15.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) did not return to Washington, DC this week due to his mother’s deteriorating health. Reichert’s mother, Marlys Klontz, died early this morning, ending her 18-month battle with pancreatic cancer. Congressman Reichert’s office has contacted leadership to advise them he is unavailable to vote, and that he will submit for the record a statement of how he would have voted on the 2011 continuing resolution and the 2012 budget. Reichert will resume his normal schedule next week, with the exception of Wednesday when he will attend a funeral and memorial services with his family.
04.14.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement regarding the continuing resolution measure that was voted on today in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I support this proposal that will allow the government to continue operating while reducing government spending. Congress must now immediately direct its full attention to the 2012 budget. “Government has overspent, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues to bring an end to that spending spree and to rebalancing limited federal resources in a way that’s fiscally responsible. While we took an important step in that direction today, there is clearly more that needs to be done. Our country is still operating under significant economic stress, and Congress must manage its resources in a way that fosters a healthy economic environment, stimulates job creation, and puts people back to work. “As we move forward, I will continue working to ensure that spending decisions reflect the priorities of families and businesses in our district so that we all can enjoy a more prosperous future.”
04.14.2011	Today, U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Todd Platts (R-PA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), and Aaron Schock (R-IL) introduced legislation to provide each American with an itemized tax receipt. The Taxpayer Receipt Act—H.R. 1527—would show how each taxpayer’s dollars are spent, as well as how much the federal government is borrowing in their name. “No matter where families in our communities go to spend their hard-earned dollars, they are offered a receipt. The federal government can and should live up to the same accountability and transparency standards observed by the small businesses in our neighborhoods,�? said Reichert. “At a time when many Americans feel that their government is detached from their daily lives, this bill could be an important first step to address their concerns and reassure them that their tax dollars are being spent on their security and to build prosperity.�? “We check our grocery receipts to make sure our dollars are being spent properly, and there's no reason we shouldn't be able to do the same with our taxes,�? said Quigley. “A tax receipt will empower taxpayers with the information they need to hold government accountable.�? The bill would provide a written receipt for those filing paper tax returns and an electronic receipt for those that e-file. The receipt would include a breakdown of each individual’s contributions to Social Security, defense spending, Medicare, and other federal programs, as well as the total amount of federal debt and how much the federal government has borrowed per citizen. “A ‘taxpayer receipt’ is simply good government,�? said Platts. “Taxpayers deserve to know where their money is going. That knowledge in turn allows for an honest and thoughtful conversation about the budgetary challenges facing our Nation.�? "Every time you make a major purchase, you get a receipt; the same should be true of tax dollars,�? added Cooper. “Every American deserves to know how their precious tax dollars are being spent. A Taxpayer Receipt just makes sense.�? The Taxpayer Receipt Act was introduced—also in a bipartisan fashion—in the Senate last month by Sens. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Scott Brown (R-MA). It is also “strongly supported�? by the centrist think tank, Third Way. “A tax receipt will clear up many misconceptions and it will allow individual taxpayers the chance to better understand how their tax dollars are being spent, so they can hold their elected officials accountable,�? said Schock. “Individuals and families review their own budgets all the time. Since taxes are one of the biggest expenses, people deserve the right to know how every dollar is being used.�? A sample of what the tax receipt would look like can be seen here.
04.12.2011	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Ron Kind (WI-03) today introduced the S Corporation Modernization Act (H.R. 1478), a tax relief proposal that would make it easier for S corporations to access capital, compete, and hire new workers by modernizing outdated rules that currently stifle their growth. Among many findings, an independent study released this morning revealed how S corporations employ one out of four private sector workers (31 million) in the United States. “S corporations and other similar businesses are responsible for more than half of the jobs in Washington State and across America,” Rep. Reichert said. “As our economy struggles to get back on sound footing, I’m proud that this bipartisan legislation will help these proven job creators access the capital needed to grow, compete, and help get more and more Americans back to work. I remain committed to supporting these bedrocks of our economy by advocating for pro-growth tax policies from my position on the Ways and Means Committee.” “This bill is a commonsense update to the tax code that will give S corporations the ability to grow and prosper especially in this tough economic environment,” Rep. Kind said. “It is critical that we ease the tax burden on our small and family owned businesses who are driving our economic growth. Under this legislation, S corporations will be better able to access credit, invest in their business, and create the good paying jobs that we need.” “Tax reform should seek to make the entire U.S. economy more competitive, not just a subset of large corporations,” stated S Corporation Association Executive Director Brian Reardon. “If you’re going to tackle tax reform, it must include both the corporate and individual tax codes in order to assist all employers. In the face of proposals that would make the majority of America’s employers less competitive, the Reichert-Kind legislation presents a realistic set of reforms that would improve the ability of 4.5 million S corporations to access much-needed capital and increase their hiring capabilities.” Specifically, H.R. 1478 would make needed changes to keep S corporations competitive and help ensure the continued success of America’s predominant private business model by: Increasing the ability of S corporations to access much-needed capital; Modernizing the rules that apply to firms that have selected S corporation status; and Enabling IRAs to hold stock in S corporations. These reforms would improve the ability of S corporations to respond to the demands of the current business environment and remove impediments that prevent them from competing on a level playing field here in the United States. The study released today can be found here.
04.08.2011	Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Wally Herger (R-CA), and Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Charles Boustany (R-LA) sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman, requesting IRS to review and examine whether AARP, Inc. should continue to be exempt from federal taxation. Specifically, the Congressional Members expressed a wide range of concerns uncovered in the recently released "Behind the Veil: The AARP America Doesn’t Know,” a report exposing the conflict between AARP’s drive for profits at the expense of the best interests of its members and the organization’s activities that call into question its tax-exempt status. The facts in the report conclude that AARP stands to make upwards of one billion dollars over the next ten years as a result of the new health care law through the sale of AARP endorsed-Medicare insurance products. The report began as an effort to conduct oversight of the tax-exempt sector and better understand AARP’s organization and structure. The joint letter, signed by Reichert, Herger, and Boustany specifically requests that the IRS review the findings detailed in the report and assess whether the IRS should conduct a further, more thorough examination of AARP. The letter requested that the IRS examine: Whether the operational activities of AARP, Inc. and its affiliates are primarily motivated by political or profit interests, instead of by service to the community; The separateness of federal grant cash and lobbying activities between AARP’s Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 501(c)(3) charitable organizations and its IRC 501(c)(4) advocacy organization; Whether it is appropriate to continue characterizing AARP Inc.’s revenue generated from insurance products as royalty income that is exempt from Unrelated Business Income Tax (UBIT); Due to evidence suggesting AARP, Inc. asserts control over its affiliates, whether the activities of its affiliates should be attributed to the tax-exempt parent, AARP, Inc.
04.08.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following his vote on H.J.Res. 37: "I believe the FCC has been given the authority to establish rules to reasonably promote and preserve open internet practices," Reichert said. "I remain committed to preserving the free, open and non-discriminatory nature of the internet, and will continue working with my colleagues to ensure we do."
04.07.2011	Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) released the U.S. International Trade Commission’s study: “U.S.- Korea Free Trade Agreement: Passenger Vehicle Sector Update.” Chairman Camp requested the study on January 27, 2011. The report, for the first time, quantifies the value to U.S. auto producers from the removal of non-tariff barriers as a result of the supplemental autos agreement to the pending U.S.-South Korea trade agreement signed last December. Non-tariff barriers, such as South Korea’s traditionally opaque regulatory process and its discriminatory standards and taxes, have severely hampered U.S. access to this important market. The ITC estimates that removal of non-tariff barriers alone will result in an increase of U.S. exports of $48-66 million – an increase of 41-56%. This increase is in addition to the increased exports that will result from the phase-out of South Korean tariffs on U.S.-made autos. The ITC concludes that “U.S. exports of passenger vehicles to the Republic of Korea (Korea) would likely increase significantly as a result of modifications to provisions in the 2007 FTA agreed to in the accompanying agreement.” In releasing the report, Chairman Camp said: “This report shows how effective our trade agreements can be in removing both tariff and non-tariff barriers to U.S. exports. As our economy struggles to recover, we must aggressively increase exports to create more American jobs. All three of our pending agreements have been closely studied over the last several years, they are ready for consideration. If we fail to act on all three before July 1, we will risk losing critical market share in those countries and falling further behind our foreign competitors.”
04.06.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following a vote on H.R. 910, The Energy Tax Prevention Act: “Today’s vote establishes a clear recognition that it is the responsibility of Congress – not regulatory agencies – to make our laws,” Reichert said. “Failure to act in this case would have sent a troubling message to the American people that Congress is willing to abdicate its Constitutional law-making responsibilities to federal regulatory agencies. Simply put, that’s not how government should work. Both President Obama and members on both sides of the aisle agree that it is preferable and necessary for Congress to address climate change. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on common-sense solutions that will reduce carbon emissions and greenhouse gases and address the challenges created by climate change in order to ensure that we protect our environment for future generations.”
04.06.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert, a Member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and the President’s Export Council, released the following statement after Administration officials announced an action plan that will enable a trade agreement with Colombia to move forward for congressional consideration: “Today is a good day for those of us who have championed opening new markets as a no-cost, proven stimulus to create jobs and help economic recovery efforts,” Reichert said. “I visited Colombia in 2008 to discuss this agreement with then-President Uribe, and am very encouraged to see that there is finally a path forward to approve an agreement that is essential to American jobs and our national security. The failure to pass pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama costs us opportunities to create hundreds of thousands of jobs here at home and will put American workers farther behind competitors in the global marketplace like the European Union, China, and Canada. It is my hope that this development on the Colombia agreement will help break the logjam that has prevented these vital agreements from being considered in Congress."BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
04.06.2011	Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S Representatives Jay Inslee (D-01), Rick Larsen (D-02), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-03), Doc Hastings (R-04), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-05), Norm Dicks (D-06), Jim McDermott (D-07), Dave Reichert (R-08), and Adam Smith (D-09) sent a letter to Charles F. Bolden, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), urging him to select Washington state’s Museum of Flight as the home for the retired NASA Space Shuttle Orbiter. “The Museum of Flight is a source of pride to all of us in Washington state and we are confident that no other facility in the world can match the Museum’s ability to preserve and utilize an orbiter in a manner befitting its historical importance,” the delegation members wrote in the letter. “…We are confident that the Museum of Flight is an ideal home for a Space Shuttle Orbiter. These important national artifacts deserve to be well cared for in a historically-relevant environment, to have their history told accurately and in an engaging manner, and to inspire the next generation of aerospace workers. No facility is better suited than the Museum of Flight.”The full text of the letter follows:April 6, 2011 The Honorable Charles F. Bolden Administrator National Aeronautics and Space Administration 2 Independence Square, 300 E Street SW Washington, D.C. 20546 Dear Administrator Bolden: We are writing in support of the Museum of Flight’s application to secure a NASA Space Shuttle Orbiter and to commend you on your resolve to ensure a fair and balanced selection process. Our enthusiastic support of the Museum of Flight as a top candidate to receive one of the retiring Space Shuttles has been unwavering. The Museum of Flight is truly first in class in reputation and museum leadership, and has an unwavering dedication to its educational mission. The facility has been an outstanding curator to some of our nation’s most significant aerospace accomplishments. The Museum of Flight is a source of pride to all of us in Washington state and we are confident that no other facility in the world can match the Museum’s ability to preserve and utilize an orbiter in a manner befitting its historical importance. As you know, the Museum of Flight believes its paramount duty is to provide high-quality educational opportunities for its visitors. To that end, we are pleased to report that construction will begin this year on the new Aviation High School to be located on the Museum’s campus. Thanks to the support of the Boeing Company, Alaska Airlines, the Highline Public School District, and other private, state and local stakeholders, this amazing facility will become a reality. Additionally, the Museum of Flight has begun constructing a state-of the-art Space Gallery to house a Shuttle Orbiter, and will be the first museum besides the National Air and Space Museum to be ready to receive a retired Shuttle. It goes without saying what an impact a Shuttle display will have on these students who will become the astronauts, scientists and engineers of tomorrow. For many years, Washington state and the Museum of Flight have been working toward the goal of securing a retired Space Shuttle to display as a testament to Washington’s steadfast commitment and dedication to the aviation and aeronautics industry since its inception. In 2005, when President Bush first announced the Shuttle retirement plan, the Museum immediately contacted NASA about securing one of these historic artifacts. Since then, communities throughout Washington, as well as state and local government leaders, have voiced strong support for the Museum’s effort. While editorial pages of newspapers throughout the state have echoed this support, the key ingredient has been everyday people who eagerly share their excitement with their friends, neighbors, and colleagues. As you know, Washington state has played a critical role in the Space Shuttle program. That is why we are very excited to join the Museum of Flight this month in celebrating the 30th anniversary of the NASA Shuttle program. Your personal contributions to this important chapter in Washington’s history are not lost on us, and we thank you for your many years of public service. Finally, as your decision-making process comes to a close, please know that you have our sincere thanks for your efforts to ensure a fair, merit-based selection process. It goes without saying that there has recently been a tremendous amount of attention paid to the retirement of the Space Shuttle Orbiters and we commend your resolve to maintain a dignified selection process. In the final days of this effort, we have one request: if there are any new criteria by which the applicants will be judged, we would appreciate having that information immediately so that the Museum of Flight has the opportunity to respond appropriately. We are confident that the Museum of Flight is an ideal home for a Space Shuttle Orbiter. These important national artifacts deserve to be well cared for in a historically-relevant environment, to have their history told accurately and in an engaging manner, and to inspire the next generation of aerospace workers. No facility is better suited than the Museum of Flight.
04.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee today released this statement following Senate passage of H.R. 4, the House-passed 1099 repeal legislation: “Today is a good day for small businesses across America,” Reichert said. “Repealing the 1099 reporting requirement is a critical reform to the healthcare overhaul law that will ensure that our country’s job creators are not saddled with more bureaucracy and additional reporting burdens. We all know that people across this country are struggling with unemployment and ongoing economic challenges, and Congress must continue working to address the problematic provisions in this law. I applaud the leadership demonstrated by Chairman Camp and Representative Lungren on this important issue, and urge the President to quickly sign this bill to remove onerous burdens that harm our nation’s job-creating small businesses.”
04.01.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after a hearing in which he posed questions to Barry Rand and Lee Hammond, executives at AARP, based on investigative research he has conducted with Republican colleagues since 2009. Reichert’s efforts to clarify AARP’s conflicting interests and questionable business practices culminated in a report released earlier this week, “Behind the Veil: The AARP America Doesn’t Know,” which concludes that AARP stands to make upwards of one billion dollars over the next ten years, as a result of the last year’s healthcare overhaul law, through the sale of their Medicare insurance products the organization is paid to endorse: “I first made inquiries to representatives of AARP because I wanted to understand why this organization, whose stated mission is to represent the interests of America’s seniors, chose to actively lobby for a healthcare overhaul that made drastic cuts to Medicare, raised costs, and reduced choice for its members,” Reichert said. “As many of you know, I used to be a cop. And when something doesn’t add up my natural instinct is to dig deeper; gather information and research the facts in order to discover the truth. Unfortunately, representatives from AARP dodged my simple and straightforward questions about supporting proposals that meant cuts to its members’ benefits. “Despite their efforts to stall and stonewall, I learned that AARP had a financial incentive to support the healthcare takeover and continues to run ads touting Medigap plans that will become seniors’ only option as the new law slashes Medicare Advantage by $200 billion. Also, while they enjoy tax-exempt status as a non-profit, royalty payments generated from the sale of products they endorse constituted nearly 46 percent of their revenue in 2009 - membership dues totaled just 17 percent of total revenues. “Again, something just doesn’t add up,” Reichert continued. “The facts I’ve uncovered point to a direct conflict of interest between AARP’s advocacy for eliminating the Medicare Advantage program that millions of their members benefit from and the massive profits AARP receives from for-profit companies for sponsoring Medigap plans that seniors will be forced to buy in the absence of Medicare Advantage. It’s apparent that AARP is putting its bottom line ahead of the best interests of the seniors it claims to represent.”KEY FINDINGS AARP is in fact a large, complex and sophisticated organization with over $2.2 billion in total assets and had revenues in excess of $1.4 billion in 2009 alone. AARP has four primary revenue sources: royalty payments (primarily from insurance companies), membership dues, publication advertising and grants (governmental and non-governmental). In 2009, AARP revenues from royalties were two and half times higher than its membership dues. Since 2002, income generated from AARP membership dues has increased 32%, or $60 million. However, during this same period, income derived from AARP’s business relationships, primarily with insurance companies, has nearly tripled, increasing by $417 million. Royalty payments from for-profit companies comprised nearly 46% of AARP’s revenue in 2009, while membership dues totaled just 17% of total revenues. As a result of the new health care law, the Obama Administration estimates more than 7 million seniors will lose their current Medicare Advantage plans, resulting in a massive migration of seniors to Medigap plans. AARP is the nation’s leading provider of Medigap plans and has a contract in which AARP financially gains for every additional Medigap enrollee. Based on low, mid and high-range estimates, AARP stands to financially gain, over and above the millions of dollars they currently receive from United, between $55 million and $166 million in 2014 alone as a result of new Medigap enrollees stemming from the health care law’s cuts to MA, which AARP strongly endorsed. Under the midrange estimate and under their current contract, AARP’s financial gain from the health care law could exceed $1 billion during the next 10 years. This is because AARP will see their royalty payments increase as seniors are forced out of MA plans and buy AARP Medigap plans instead. Despite a massive increase in revenues, AARP’s cash and in-kind contributions to the AARP Foundation only increased 11% ($3.1 million) while cash and in-kind contributions to AARP’s Legal Counsel for the Elderly actually decreased 9% ($300,000) from 2004 to 2008 (the only years for which AARP provided data). Meanwhile, the AARP Foundation recently committed an estimated $14 million in each of the next three years to become the primary sponsor of NASCAR driver Jeff Gordon. The AARP Foundation received government grants totaling over $97 million which comprised 81.9% of the Foundation’s total revenue in 2009.
04.01.2011	Who Said It? "AARP members know they are being sold out by an organization that is happily using member dues and Medigap premiums to promote a Medicare bill that does more harm than good." A. Wally Herger (R-CA) B. Dave Reichert (R-WA) C. Charles Boustany (R-LA) D. Pete Stark (D-CA) Answer: D. Pete Stark (D-CA)And there's more... "Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader in the House, complained that AARP was 'in the pocket' of Republicans, and suggested that the group, which also sells insurance to its members, had a financial conflict of interest."The New York Times, November 23, 2003 "AARP’s most recent actions confirm what we predicted when they first threw their weight behind the Medicare drug bill in 2003. They did so to improve their bottom line, not to help the 35 million seniors they claim to represent." Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Pete Stark (D-CA) "The AARP has forgotten where they come from, because once you get into the business of making money with the devil you forget your mission."Ways and Means Member Charles B. Rangel (R-NY) "Seniors may be curious as to why, then, if this is such a poor bill, does the national AARP support it? Good question. ‘Why does the national AARP leadership support a bill that meets almost none of their clearly stated needs and conditions?’ Good question."Ways and Means Member John Larson (D-CT) "AARP’s misguided decision to embrace this legislation and sacrifice the future of Medicare must not go unchallenged."Eighty-five Democratic members of Congress, led by Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA) ### Ways and Means Republican Press Officewww.waysandmeans.house.gov 202.226.4774
03.30.2011	Today, three Members of Congress released “Behind the Veil: The AARP America Doesn’t Know,” a new report exposing the conflict between AARP’s drive for profits, the best interests of its members and the organization’s tax exempt status. The report, which is the culmination of more than a year-long investigation, concludes that AARP stands to make upwards of one billion dollars over the next ten years as a result of the new health care law through the sale of their endorsed-Medicare insurance products. Discussing the reports findings, the Congressmen highlighted three critical areas of concern: 1) the negative impact of AARP’s advocacy efforts on its senior members, 2) profits gained by AARP as a result of its Medicare insurance-related business activities and advocacy efforts, and 3) whether AARP abused its tax-exempt status. The Members, who all serve on the Ways and Means Committee with jurisdiction over tax-exempt organizations and Medicare, turned the matter over to the IRS for further investigation. Congressman Reichert, a member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, who has previously raised concerns that AARP advocates for policies that are not in the interest of its members, pointed out the organization’s ever-increasing profits: “The information contained in this report uncovers and confirms a pattern of AARP putting profits before the interests of the older Americans they are supposed to represent. AARP stands to make upwards of a billion dollars over the next ten years as a result of the new health care overhaul law. In fact, by profit, they would be the 6th largest insurance company in America, and it will get even bigger as the health care takeover law is implemented. It’s clear AARP appears to be operating much more like a big insurance company than a non-profit seniors’ advocacy group. The evidence is there; my hope is that the Internal Revenue Service will take it from here.” Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, discussed the effect of AARP’s business practices on its senior members. “Seniors are struggling, and we believe they ought to know what we’ve learned about AARP. The new health care law, which AARP strongly supported, means one-half trillion dollars in cuts to Medicare services for seniors, and that means seniors face the prospect of losing the care they have and like. But as seniors deal with these cuts, AARP’s profits are likely to increase by more than $1 billion over the next 10 years. Why are seniors sacrificing while AARP rakes in enormous profits? That just doesn’t make sense.” Congressman Charles Boustany (R-LA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee, voiced concerns about whether AARP’s activities interfere with the organization’s tax-exempt status. “The lack of strong walls between AARP’s for-profit and non-profit side raises questions. AARP enjoys a privileged tax-exempt status, but in many cases AARP resembles a for-profit entity. Now that the information gathering phase has concluded, we are turning over this report to the IRS. The IRS is best equipped to handle further investigation, and if it is determined AARP has abused its tax-exempt status, it will be up to the IRS to determine whether or not that privileged status ought to be revoked.”KEY FINDINGS AARP is in fact a large, complex and sophisticated organization with over $2.2 billion in total assets and had revenues in excess of $1.4 billion in 2009 alone. AARP has four primary revenue sources: royalty payments (primarily from insurance companies), membership dues, publication advertising and grants (governmental and non-governmental). In 2009, AARP revenues from royalties were two and half times higher than its membership dues. Since 2002, income generated from AARP membership dues has increased 32%, or $60 million. However, during this same period, income derived from AARP’s business relationships, primarily with insurance companies, has nearly tripled, increasing by $417 million. Royalty payments from for-profit companies comprised nearly 46% of AARP’s revenue in 2009, while membership dues totaled just 17% of total revenues. As a result of the new health care law, the Obama Administration estimates more than 7 million seniors will lose their current Medicare Advantage plans, resulting in a massive migration of seniors to Medigap plans. AARP is the nation’s leading provider of Medigap plans and has a contract in which AARP financially gains for every additional Medigap enrollee. Based on low, mid and high-range estimates, AARP stands to financially gain, over and above the millions of dollars they currently receive from United, between $55 million and $166 million in 2014 alone as a result of new Medigap enrollees stemming from the health care law’s cuts to MA, which AARP strongly endorsed. Under the midrange estimate and under their current contract, AARP’s financial gain from the health care law could exceed $1 billion during the next 10 years. This is because AARP will see their royalty payments increase as seniors are forced out of MA plans and buy AARP Medigap plans instead. Despite a massive increase in revenues, AARP’s cash and in-kind contributions to the AARP Foundation only increased 11% ($3.1 million) while cash and in-kind contributions to AARP’s Legal Counsel for the Elderly actually decreased 9% ($300,000) from 2004 to 2008 (the only years for which AARP provided data). Meanwhile, the AARP Foundation recently committed an estimated $14 million in each of the next three years to become the primary sponsor of NASCAR driver Jeff Gordon. The AARP Foundation received government grants totaling over $97 million which comprised 81.9% of the Foundation’s total revenue in 2009.
03.17.2011	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Jim Matheson (UT-02) today introduced H.R. 1145, legislation that would provide construction workers, contractors, engineers and architects with qualified immunity when they respond to a declared disaster or emergency. “In the wake of disasters we have seen heart-rending images of suffering that always stay in our minds,” Reichert said. “And it is in the aftermath of disaster that construction workers step in to voluntarily provide vital services to people affected by crisis. The expertise, equipment, and knowledge they bring to these situations are critically important. These good samaritans who respond quickly and give of their time and resources to help our country and their fellow citizens provide important support for rescue, recovery, and clean-up efforts. When those construction workers, contractors, architects and engineers step forward to help, they shouldn’t hesitate out of a fear of lawsuits. Our country must stand united in times of crisis, and this bill will allow those who want to help their neighbors to do that.” “Americans who rush to deliver disaster aid should not be slowed by worries over being sued. It’s often a life or death situation and volunteers tip the scales in favor of survival,” said Matheson. BACKGROUNDReichert and Matheson first introduced this legislation on June 23, 2010. Specifically, H.R. 1145 would grant construction companies, their employees, architects and engineers immunity from liability for negligence – but would not cover gross negligence or willful misconduct – when providing emergency construction assistance on a voluntary basis in response to a declared emergency or disaster, in good faith, and without expectation of compensation. Furthermore, those protected under this bill would be providing such assistance at the direction of a public official.
03.11.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today returned to the White House to join Cabinet Secretaries and business leaders to discuss new market access for American goods and services, the creation and preservation of American jobs, and a possible reorganization of the nation’s trade agencies. Today’s meeting is Reichert’s third with the President’s Export Council (PEC), during which he conveyed the urgency of passing the pending trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama by July 1. Reichert released this statement at the conclusion of the meeting: “Trade agreements are a cost-free way to create good-paying U.S. jobs and boost economic growth by opening new markets for U.S. goods and services,�? Reichert said. “I commend the President’s goal of doubling exports and creating 2 million jobs by 2014, but it cannot be achieved without opening new markets for U.S. exports. The pending trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama do just that. All three pending trade agreements enjoy broad bipartisan and bicameral support on the Hill. “America faces increasing competitive disadvantages in all of these markets the longer these agreements languish, and July 1 is a critical date,�? Reichert continued. “We expect the EU-South Korea agreement and the Canada-Colombia agreement to enter into effect then, further undermining U.S. market share. I will continue fighting for swift passage of the KORUS FTA that I have long championed, but the same urgent need to advance the Korea deal holds true for Colombia and Panama. The time for action on all three agreements is now – America cannot afford to fall further behind.�?BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.�? Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
03.11.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), today released the following statement regarding the earthquake and tsunamis in Japan: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Japan, and my heart goes out to those people affected by today’s events. I’m pleased with the early reports that FEMA and officials at all level of government are working together to assist the victims of this tragedy, and I will continue to closely monitor the situation as it develops. I urge Washington coast residents to take proper precautions to ensure their safety and anyone within my district seeking further information to contact my office.”
03.09.2011	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act to make “Katie’s Law” the national standard. The legislation will encourage states to maximize the potential of forensic DNA to solve and prevent violent crimes by collecting a DNA sample upon arrest at the same time as fingerprints -- for certain felony crimes. This bipartisan bill is named after Katie Sepich from Carlsbad, New Mexico, who was 22 years old when she was brutally raped and murdered in Las Cruces, New Mexico. If New Mexico had at that time required a DNA sample to be taken upon arrest, Katie’s killer would have been caught three months after the murder when the murderer was arrested for another predatory crime. Instead, the killer was released back onto the streets; it was three long years before he was finally apprehended again and linked to Katie’s murder. "The abuse of another human being and the taking of human life are unthinkable tragedies,” Reichert said. “DNA science – its collection and analysis – is vital to the criminal investigation process, and this bill will provide a critical resource to aid our law enforcement officials in investigating and prosecuting crimes, protecting the innocent, and preventing the violent crimes that tragically impacts families’ lives.” “Katie’s Law will give local law enforcement the DNA technology they need to hasten the criminal investigation process, helping to identify dangerous criminals and take them off the streets to prevent the kind of tragedies and pain that the Sepich family endured,” Rep. Schiff said. “The legislation will help keep our communities safe by solving cold cases, and will give some closure to the families of victims nationwide.” Twenty-four states, including California, have now adopted DNA collection upon arrest or indictment for at least some violent felonies, and doing so increases the power of the national database to solve crimes. The bonus in federal law enforcement grants provided by Katie’s Law will encourage additional states to adopt an arrestee testing law. The Congressmen worked with Katie’s parents, Jayann and David Sepich of Carlsbad, New Mexico, to develop this national law. “I am grateful for the leadership and support of Congressmen Schiff and Reichert,” said Jayann Sepich, Katie’s mother. “I have focused my advocacy on trying to ensure that no parent experiences the pain we felt losing Katie, and the passage of this bill will help make that a reality.” This Katie’s Law legislation will provide incentives to states to employ the most sophisticated crime fighting tools available to fight violent crime, save lives, and bring killers to justice. This legislation will: • Incentivize states to meet minimum standards for arrestee DNA collection. The minimum standard asks states to collect DNA samples from those arrested for, indicted for, or charged with certain violent felonies and compare these samples with existing records in the national DNA database to determine if they match an unsolved case; • Incentivize states to meet enhanced arrestee DNA standards by collecting DNA from those arrested for certain crimes and submit the samples for inclusion in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS); • Apply current federal law to ensure that any DNA profile of an arrestee that is not convicted is expunged; • Reduce the wasteful spending associated with the costly investigation of false leads. A study in Indiana estimated that taxpayers spend over $2,000 per crime for officer response, investigation, prosecution, and adjudication. Catching repeat offenders early will reduce costs over time; • Protect the privacy of arrestees. Information obtained from a DNA sample and submitted to national DNA databases only contains 13 to 15 numeric indicators. These numbers are not connected to a name or criminal history and do not indicate broader identifying factors like race, medical history, or predisposition to disease; and • Protect the innocent. Katie’s Law is one of the only ways to definitively link killers and rapists to their heinous crimes. By definitively identifying the perpetrators, Katie’s Law statutes have frequently led to the exoneration of innocent men and women who would have otherwise spent decades in prison for crimes they did not commit. Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY).
03.03.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement following the successful passage of the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act (H.R. 4), which will repeal the onerous reporting burdens placed on job-creating small businesses by the healthcare overhaul signed into law last year: “Today, we worked to save American small businesses, both in my district and across the country, from the crushing administrative burdens and growth-stifling tax penalties created by the healthcare takeover,” Reichert said. “Americans were told that the healthcare overhaul law would reduce costs and cut down on bureaucracy. While that wasn’t the case, H.R. 4 takes an important step toward modifying the law. It has the advantage of paying for the repeal of an onerous reporting burden by reining in wasteful overpayments of taxpayer dollars, reducing the deficit in the process.”BACKGROUND On March 21, 2010, Reichert rejected the health care overhaul because it would cripple efforts to rejuvenate the economy in the middle of a recession, cost more than $1 trillion, slash Medicare benefits by $523.5 billion, force crushing tax hikes of $569 billion on families and job creators, and take away their current health plans. Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments (from any source) for healthcare, health delivery systems, and health research. This subcommittee was at the forefront of debate concerning last year’s healthcare overhaul legislation. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for healthcare, visit reichert.house.gov.
03.03.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined Congressman John Larson (CT-01) in introducing bipartisan legislation to address a steep decline in charitable vehicle donations that has resulted in cuts to community services provided by non-profits across the nation. Six years ago, Congress enacted changes in the tax code to address abuses in the vehicle donation process. By doing so, it inadvertently created a new problem by actively discouraging donations, causing thousands of charities to curtail services. Until 2005, a taxpayer could deduct the fair-market value of vehicles donated to charity if that amount was under $5000. Since then, Congress limited deductions for vehicles worth more than $500 to the amount for which the charity resells a donated car. In the first year after the law changed, the IRS reported a 67-percent decline in the number of vehicles donated, and an 80-percent decline in their value. The Larson-Reichert bill (H.R. 860) would allow tax deductions based on fair market value up to $2,500, while leaving in place all the tracking and enforcement safeguards. The legislation would protect against abuses without scaring away donors. It is supported by the Salvation Army, American Heart Association, Society of St. Vincent de Paul, Habitat for Humanity, Volunteers of America, Amistad America and scores of other local and national non-profits that rely on vehicle donation as a revenue source.
03.01.2011	Hailed for his leadership in addressing the health and education needs of millions of children in the developing world, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) was honored this week with Save the Children’s 2011 Congressional Champion Inspiring Lasting Change for Children award. “Congressman Reichert has demonstrated extraordinary commitment to helping children in need around the world,” said Charles MacCormack, president and CEO of Save the Children, a global humanitarian organization that serves children in need in the United States and around the world. “His brand of leadership is essential to helping more children survive, thrive and achieve their full potential. That in turn, creates more opportunity and stability – which not only benefits developing nations, but is central to America’s national security and economic interests,” MacCormack added. Save the Children applauded Rep. Reichert for his leadership in championing the Newborn, Child and Mother Survival Act and for his work on the Education for All Act. The agency also commended the congressman for his consistent leadership on supporting the International Affairs Budget, which funds programs critical to keeping America safe and saving lives around the world. “I’m honored to receive this recognition and accept it on behalf of the children we’re all working together to protect,” Reichert said. “I entered public service because I wanted to answer the persistent call of our society: make a better future for the next generation. I remain committed to doing all I can to shape a safer, more prosperous world in which children are able to live healthy lives and achieve their full potential.” Each year, as part of Save the Children’s Advocacy Day activities on Capitol Hill, the agency recognizes select congressional leaders for their outstanding work in helping children in need both at home and around the globe. In addition to Rep. Reichert, Save the Children this week also honored Sen. Roger Wicker, (R-MS), Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AR) and Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) for their work on behalf of children in the United States and worldwide. Save the Children is the leading, independent organization that creates lasting change for children in need in the United States and 120 countries around the world.
02.24.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement in reaction to the Air Force’s announcement to award Boeing with a contract to build the next generation of refueling tanker for American Armed Forces: “This is great news, and I’m very happy for the Boeing company, its employees, and the entire state of Washington,” Reichert said. “The Department of Defense reevaluated their original decision, this time considering the serious security implications involved, and rightly settled on Boeing – a company with decades of industrial knowledge, established infrastructure, and an army of skilled engineers that are capable of producing the best refueling tanker for our Armed Forces. “I take my oath to protect and defend our Constitution seriously, and one of the most effective ways I can uphold that pledge is to ensure that our men and women in uniform, serving around the world, have the best tools possible to complete their mission. With this decision, we not only gain a source of much-needed job creation in the region, but we also reassure our troops that we are committed to serving them, just as they have committed to serving for us.”
02.24.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert, a member of the President’s Export Council (PEC), released the following statement after joining with local manufacturers and business leaders for a meeting of the Center for Advanced Manufacturing Puget Sound (CAMPS) in Kent to discuss how to support American manufacturers and the important role their businesses play in job creation and economic recovery: “I value the opportunity to spend time in my district checking in with industries and meeting with business leaders who drive the local economy,” Reichert said. “Today, I had the opportunity to sit down with representatives from CAMPS, an innovative and forward thinking non-profit group established to develop and expand small and mid-sized manufacturing businesses in the region, and I am impressed with the good work they are doing to ensure America engages and defines the global economy. “As some sectors of the economy become increasingly technologically dependent, we must not forget that the economic powerhouse that America is today was built on the backs of hard-working manufacturers. I am confident that the innovative spirit that has sustained them for generations will keep their products relevant and valuable even as our economy evolves. The federal government has a role in shaping and growing the future of the manufacturing industry by: ensuring that our educational system is producing skilled employees, simplifying the tax code, by replacing onerous regulations in the healthcare overhaul law with provisions that reduce costs without stifling small businesses, and by working to connect manufacturers with consumers in new markets abroad by acting on pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Panama, and Colombia. I remain a committed, active partner with our manufacturers as they shape and adapt their industry in a way that will increase exports and help this country remain competitive in the global marketplace while sustaining Washington families with good-paying jobs.”BACKGROUND Earlier this month, Reichert was honored by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) with the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award, which highlights his dedication to policies that will help manufacturers create jobs and compete in the global marketplace. He has long been a vocal advocate for a pro-manufacturing agenda and supported policies targeted to help manufacturers create jobs and compete in the global economy. For this honor, each key vote was selected by an NAM member-led advisory committee comprised of executives from small, mid-sized and large manufacturing companies. Members of Congress are notified in advance when key votes are pending and why the key vote designation has been made. These policies are important components of the NAM’s “Manufacturing Strategy for Jobs and a Competitive America,” a comprehensive plan for supporting jobs and the U.S. economy. Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s trade advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity.
02.23.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert, a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, the President’s Export Council, and founder of the U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group this week hosted a roundtable discussion in Kent to engage business and community leaders to solicit their thoughts and ideas on the importance of trade. “One of the most informative and enjoyable parts of representing Washington’s 8th district is the opportunity to spend time here at home, hearing from people throughout our communities,” Reichert said. “Trade is important to the economic vitality of our region and our country, and it’s absolutely critical that we open new markets in order to connect American goods and services with the markets that demand them. Trade is an often-overlooked stimulus that can help create jobs, and our discussion clearly demonstrated that our community and business leaders understand and appreciate the role trade plays in job creation and economic prosperity. I appreciate the feedback and thought-provoking suggestions received today, which will help guide my future decisions and actions on this important issue.” · The Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA metropolitan area is the 4th largest metropolitan exporter in the United States, and the region has experienced strong growth in exports. Exports have increased from $46.3 billion in 2006 to $46.9 billion in 2008 · In 2008, the leading export markets for businesses in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue metro area were: China ($5.4 billion), Japan ($5.4 billion), and Canada ($4.7 billion) · Businesses and workers in the Seattle metro area benefited from free trade agreements. Seattle exported $5.2 billion to NAFTA in 2007 and $5.5 billion in 2008 Seattle exported $40 million to CAFTA in 2007 and $52.5 million in 2008 · Leading export products for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue metro area include computer and electronic products ($2.6 billion); fishing, hunting and trapping ($1.8 billion); and machinery ($1.5 billion) Representatives from participating organizations include: Port of Seattle Port of Tacoma Eddie Bauer Boeing World Trade Center Tacoma The National Center for Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Starbucks BACKGROUND Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
02.18.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement after voting for a continuing resolution that would prevent a shutdown of the federal government while drastically reducing government spending in order to stimulate job creation and revitalize America’s economic engine: “I know it will be difficult to end the federal government’s years-long spending spree, but we took an important and necessary step toward that goal today,” Reichert said. “Our country is still under economic stress, and it’s the responsibility of Congress to manage the growth of government to foster an economic environment that stimulates job creation and puts people back to work. Government has overspent, and I’m committed to rebalancing limited federal resources in a fiscally responsible way. “Clearly, we had to make some tough choices. I worked to ensure that spending reductions reflected the priorities of families and businesses in our district. I’m confident that as we move forward, Washingtonians and all Americans will join together in rising to meet the fiscal crisis that faces our nation. Today, we tightened Uncle Sam’s belt so that our children can grow, work, and enjoy a prosperous future. “From a process standpoint, this debate was carried out in a manner more open than any we have seen in recent history. Allowing Members from either party, from every committee, and from any region to come to the floor and advocate on behalf of their constituencies is a true practice of our democracy and makes the resulting compromise all the more representative of the intent of the American people.”
02.18.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) invites all interested high school students residing in Washington State’s Eighth Congressional District to participate in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition. “Being in a position to help showcase the talents of young people in our communities is a true privilege of my role as our district’s representative,” Reichert said. “Each year, I find myself amazed at the effort and quality of work these students produce and I’m confident this year will be no different. I encourage all young people to take an active role in their complete education - an education that emphasizes creativity and the arts as well as more traditional aspects of their curriculum. I hope this competition serves as a colorful and inspirational forum for all of those involved. I know it will again be a pleasure for my staff and me.” Winning artwork from each district will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The 2011 winner for the Eighth District will replace last year’s winner, a piece entitled, “Burning” by Colton Running, a senior from Tahoma Senior High School.BACKGROUND Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. Interested students can find full, detailed guidelines for the competition on Congressman Reichert’s website. Submissions must be received at Congressman Reichert’s district office on Mercer Island by 5:00 PM ET on April 15, 2010.
02.16.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released this statement at the conclusion of this week’s committee hearings with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob Lew on the President’s FY2012 budget proposal and the effects it would have on economic recovery: “Congress is being asked by this Administration to accept a budget that targets small businesses with hundreds of billions of dollars in income tax increases, discourages investment, and leaves a bleak long-term fiscal picture for our children and grandchildren,” Reichert said. “That is unacceptable. Our focus needs to be singularly trained on jobs. On getting America working again. America’s small businesses are the engines of job creation in our country; raising taxes on them – particularly in a recession and at a time of high unemployment – is unconscionable, and it is not the best way to encourage economic growth. “What’s more, at a time when it is absolutely critical to open new markets and connect American goods and services with the customers that demand them, the Administration and Congress must make a further commitment to swiftly enact the pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Free trade is an all-too-often overlooked, no-cost stimulus that this Administration and Congress can’t afford to ignore. “The federal government has a responsibility to ensure that it can meet its obligations, but it must do so in a way that is financially responsible and sustainable. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure that happens.”BACKGROUND Reichert, a vocal advocate on behalf of small businesses, expressed concern with a proposal to raise income tax rates on “pass through” businesses – including S corporations, partnerships, and sole proprietorships – whose income is reported on their owners’ individual tax returns. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, roughly 50 percent of all small business income would be subject to such a tax hike. During the hearing process, Reichert also took issue with the absence of language in the budget that would clarify the role that pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama would play in achieving the Administration’s stated goal of doubling exports and creating 2 million jobs by 2014, noting that the last time the U.S. successfully doubled exports was from 1995 to 2007, during which time the U.S. signed or implemented 9 free trade agreements. Reichert has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama.
02.11.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after learning of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s decision to leave Cairo and turn over control of the government to the military and the Egyptian Vice President: “The world is watching and I know I am not alone when I express my desire to see the energy that fueled recent protests refocused on the difficult road to a sustained peace in the future,” said Reichert. “After weeks of civil protest, I am optimistic order will be restored while Egyptians decide the best way to transform their government into a free and representative democracy. I hope that the Egyptian military will provide stability while civilians work to create a new framework and future for an emerging Egyptian democracy. The United States will continue to support the Egyptian people and honor them as the important ally in that region of the world that they have long been. In time I hope, the emergency conditions that ruled the state can be replaced by constitutional reforms – reforms that have been demanded by the people of Egypt and that can deliver a new era of freedom and legitimacy to their government through fair elections.”
02.11.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement to announce that he has hired Bryce Dustman to serve as Chief of Staff: “I’m pleased to welcome Bryce to our team,” Reichert said. “He has a demonstrated ability to work with Members of Congress, to lead Congressional staff, and to develop and guide legislation and communications, while also ensuring the superior level of constituent service that the people throughout our district have come to expect. I’m confident that he will make significant contributions to serve Washington’s 8th district, and I look forward to working with him in the 112th Congress.” Dustman, 54, has worked with members of both the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives, most recently as Rep. Heather Wilson’s (NM-01) Chief of Staff from 2001-2009. Dustman’s congressional service also includes: Communications Director, Rep. Phil Crane (IL-08); Communications Director/Legislative Assistant, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT); and Deputy News Secretary, Sen. John Danforth (R-MO). Prior to his federal service, Dustman owned and managed a 2,700 acre grain and livestock farm in Missouri.
02.10.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and Health Subcommittee, today released this statement following a full hearing on the health care overhaul’s impact on the Medicare program and its beneficiaries. "One of the key reasons I cited when voting against the health care overhaul was the negative impact on our seniors and the devastating cuts to Medicare,” Reichert said. “The healthcare overhaul will make billions of dollars in cuts to Medicare Advantage, a program that has grown in popularity among seniors. Today, Dr. Donald Berwick – the man put in charge of implementing major provisions of this massive takeover – did not answer my questions about whether or not anything would be done to ensure that seniors who like their health plan can keep it. This morning’s testimony was disappointing but serves as yet another reminder that my colleagues and I will need to work harder than ever to provide our constituents with the responsible healthcare reform that they need and deserve.”BACKGROUND On March 21, 2010, Reichert rejected final passage of the health care overhaul because it would cripple efforts to rejuvenate the economy in the middle of a recession, cost more than $1 trillion, slash Medicare benefits by $523.5 billion, force crushing tax hikes of $569 billion on families and job creators, and take away their current health plans. Since the bill’s passage, Reichert has been an advocate of repealing and replacing the problematic provisions of the law. To that end, on January 26 he introduced the Restoring Assistance for Families’ and Seniors’ Health Expenses Act (H.R. 450), a proposal that would repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, and restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses. Reichert has also questioned AARP for its support of the health care overhaul legislation, requesting that the organization explain its support for a proposal that would cut Medicare benefits, affecting millions of seniors. More information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways and Means Committee debate on this health care legislation is available here.
02.10.2011	Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) reintroduced their Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 608/S.322). This legislation would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “Americans can find common ground in protecting what is most valuable to us – the naturally beautiful terrain and wildlife that helped shape the history and people of the American West,” said Representative Reichert. “We have an inherent responsibility to do our part to preserve for the resources with which we’ve been blessed. “That’s why I’m excited Senator Patty Murray is joining me in this continued bipartisan effort to preserve an extraordinary wilderness in Washington, not far from our own backyards. We came close last year when my bill passed in the House, but Senator Murray and I have renewed our vow to work hard to move this proposal through the 112th Congress and see it signed into law. Only then will we properly honor the volunteers, stakeholders, and residents who have shown us how important and necessary these protections are to people throughout our region. Until then, I am committed to working with Senator Murray, the entire Washington State delegation, and our communities to protect this legacy for the benefit of current and future generations.” “I am proud to reintroduce this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Reichert to protect and expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness,” said Senator Patty Murray. “I am committed to making sure that this pristine environment is preserved as a legacy and natural resource for generations to come. I appreciate Congressman Reichert’s work on this in the House, and I am going to push hard to pass this bill in the Senate.” Senator Maria Cantwell is a co-sponsor of this legislation in the Senate, and Congressmen Inslee, McDermott, Dicks, and Smith are co-sponsors in the House. The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the new Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these lower elevation lands also has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. Designating the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
02.10.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, the President’s Export Council (PEC), and founder of the U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group, today continued his advocacy for action on pending free trade agreements (FTAs) – particularly with South Korea – during a hearing in which the full Committee heard testimony from U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk. Reichert emphasized the importance of opening new markets to job creation and economy prosperity. “Trade is an issue of American competitiveness, and it demands bipartisan cooperation,” Reichert said. “It is absolutely critical that we open new markets and connect American goods and services with the markets that demand them. I commend the Administration for setting a specific target and deadline of doubling exports and creating 2 million jobs by 2014, but I’m concerned that the National Export Initiative strategy cannot meet these goals without passing pending deals like the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The last time we doubled exports was between 1995 and 2007, and in that time, the U.S. signed or implemented nine free trade agreements. “I was encouraged today when Ambassador Kirk signaled that he understood that each day the US-Korea FTA languishes is another day that our global competitiveness suffers. It is also another day we miss the chance to create thousands of American jobs while other countries race ahead. Our time is running out, as a free trade agreement between the EU and Korea is set to take effect on July 1. Now is the time for Congress to act on the Korea, Colombia, and Panama FTAs.”BACKGROUND House Speaker John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
02.07.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today was honored by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) with the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award. The award highlights Reichert’s dedication to policies that will help manufacturers create jobs and compete in the global marketplace. Reichert was presented with the award at a recognition ceremony sponsored by NAM member Terex Corporation / Genie Industries, a key manufacturer in Washington’s 8th district. “I’m honored to accept this award today, and I do so on behalf of the manufacturers in my district and across this country who are the heart and soul of our export economy,” Reichert said. “America’s manufacturers play a vital role in our global competitiveness, while providing an educated, skilled workforce with good paying jobs. I am proud to advocate for them, and will continue to support policies that will allow them to continue bringing America’s ideas and innovation to the global market.” “On behalf of Terex and our employees, I thank Congressman Reichert for championing the causes that will help manufacturers thrive in Washington and across the United States,” said Tim Ford, President, Terex Aerial Work Platforms. “We’re fortunate to have Dave Reichert in our corner, advocating policies that will enable us to grow, create jobs, expand internationally and stay ahead of our global competition." "Congressman Reichert supports common-sense policies that will enable manufacturers to create and maintain good high-paying jobs in Washington and throughout America,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “A vibrant manufacturing base is vital to getting our economy turned around and ensuring quality of life for all Americans. It is critical to have lawmakers like Congressman Reichert whose actions consistently match their words when it comes to a pro-manufacturing agenda for economic growth and job creation.” Members of Congress who maintained a voting record of 70 percent or higher during the 111th Congress (2009-2010) received the Award. Congressman Reichert received a 78-percent key vote rating. BACKGROUNDReichert has long been a vocal advocate for a pro-manufacturing agenda and supported policies targeted to help manufacturers create jobs and compete in the global economy. For today’s honor, each key vote was selected by an NAM member-led advisory committee comprised of executives from small, mid-sized and large manufacturing companies. Members of Congress are notified in advance when key votes are pending and why the key vote designation has been made. These policies are important components of the NAM’s “Manufacturing Strategy for Jobs and a Competitive America,” a comprehensive plan for supporting jobs and the U.S. economy. NAM press contact: Laura Narvaiz, (202) 637-3104.
01.27.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and Health Subcommittee, today introduced the Restoring Assistance for Families’ and Seniors’ Health Expenses Act (H.R. 450), legislation that would repeal troubling provisions of the health care overhaul law. The Reichert proposal would repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, and restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses. “As Americans continue to struggle in this challenging economic climate, the last thing they need are the additional tax burdens and restrictions created by the health care overhaul,” Reichert said. “This proposal is a targeted solution that will restore important tax relief for individuals, families and small businesses. As the harsh reality of the health care law settles in, as my constituents realize they are no longer allowed to purchase over-the-counter medications with their savings accounts, and as businesses are forced to offer fewer options for their employees, this common-sense proposal will deliver some much-needed relief. I will continue working to bring meaningful reform to health care through proposals like this one that will remove the harmful taxes and burdens created by this new law.” “NFIB applauds Congressman Reichert for sponsoring the Restoring Assistance for Families’ and Seniors’ Health Expenses Act,” said Susan Eckerly, senior vice president of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). “This legislation will help provide greater economic certainty and predictability for small business … Instead of offering reforms that provided more choice and greater flexibility, the new healthcare law leaves small-business owners with even less choice than they had previously. Options like FSAs and HSAs encourage consumer awareness on how they can best spend their health care dollars. In a time when small businesses are already encumbered by an expensive and uncompetitive market, eliminating once-affordable options takes away what little choice remains for small businesses.” A summary of the Reichert legislation follows.Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act, H.R. 450The health care overhaul law placed a new cap ($2,500 starting in 2011) on the maximum annual contribution to a Flexible Savings Account (FSA). H.R. 450 repeals this cap.- FSAs – which are currently used by 35 million Americans – encourage consumers to be more aware of both the cost and quality of health care goods and services. - By limiting the value of FSAs, the legislation undermines this important incentive for cost control for millions of Americans. Additionally, for many Americans with chronic conditions, FSAs present an opportunity to set money aside to cover the ongoing cost of care. - Approximately 7 million Americans put more than $2,500 into their FSAs. According to the Employers Council on Flexible Compensation, the median income of an FSA holder in 2008 was just $55,000. The health care overhaul law included a new ban starting in 2011 prohibiting holders of FSAs and HSAs (as well as Archer MSAs and Health Reimbursement Accounts) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. H.R. 450 repeals this provision.- Some OTC medicines, such as Claritin or Prilosec, can now be purchased over the counter for half the price of their prescription versions. - By eliminating the ability to use FSA or HSA accounts for the purchase of such medicines, individuals will be forced to use more expensive prescription drugs. The health care overhaul law included an increase, from 7.5 percent to 10 percent of income, the threshold after which individuals can deduct out of pocket medical expenses. H.R. 450 restores the deduction to the original percentage. - H.R. 450 would restore the medical expenses deduction to 7.5 percent of taxable income. - According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, more than 95 percent of the tax increase imposed by this change would fall on filers earning under $200,000.
01.26.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I was pleased to hear the President express his desire for and commitment to bipartisanship, urging people to cooperate and work together to do what’s best for this country,” Reichert said. “That’s the approach I’ve taken since coming to Congress, because working together is the way we’ll deliver on the job creation and economic recovery Americans need and deserve. The American people are tired of politics as usual in Washington, DC. They sent that message loud and clear with the elections in November. I appreciate that the President set a good tone tonight for the branches of government to work together, and I applaud his efforts to bring people together here tonight. “I’m guardedly optimistic about the President’s recognition that we need to restore and solidify America’s competitive edge and embrace the fact that we’re operating in a global economy,” Reichert continued. “The discussion tonight related to free trade is certainly a step in the right direction. I am enthusiastic that the President signaled the need for Congress to pass the Korea free trade agreement as soon as possible, a cause I have been committed to for years. Free trade can create jobs, and failing to act on pending trade agreements while competitors in Europe and Asia move ahead means we could lose jobs. “With regard to government spending, I believe we need to closely examine the budget. We must take a line-by-line look through it to get rid of waste, fraud, abuse, and inefficiencies, and we should reallocate our resources based on our nation’s needs and priorities. I look forward to playing a role in this examination as a member of the Ways and Means Committee, which will receive the President’s budget proposal in a matter of weeks. “From a philosophical standpoint, the President said tonight that we measure our progress by the success of our people. And while I agree with that sentiment, I think there are some different opinions about how we achieve that goal. Some believe that success comes as a product of more government – but I don’t believe that’s what our Founders intended. Government certainly has a role to play in helping our citizens to be successful and to realize the American Dream, but my faith has always been in the ingenuity, the creativity, and the innovative spirit of my fellow Americans. Simply put, government needs to get out of the way. Congress needs to cut the bureaucracy, the red tape, and the regulations that prevent individuals, families and small businesses from creating jobs and realizing their full potential. Let’s equip our fellow Americans for success by placing our faith in them and removing barriers and obstacles so they can achieve their dreams.”
01.26.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, the President’s Export Council, and founder of the U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group today pushed for action on pending free trade agreements (FTAs) – particularly with South Korea – during a full committee hearing to discuss the pending agreements and their importance to job creation and economic recovery. “Free trade can be an important catalyst for our economic recovery and future growth,” Reichert said. “It holds the potential to preserve and create American jobs while growing our economy. The fact is, we now operate in a global economy, and America cannot just participate in it – we must lead it. “Opening new markets to ‘Sell American’ is a proven jobs stimulus, and we must move forward on these agreements. It is absolutely critical that we examine these FTAs not only for what America stands to gain from their passage, but also by what America stands to lose if Congress fails to act. "The clock is ticking: a free trade agreement between the EU and Korea is set to take effect on July 1. Every day the Korea FTA languishes is another day that our competitiveness in the global economy is diminished, and it is another day that we miss an opportunity to create thousands of American jobs while the European Union, China, and others race ahead. This is unacceptable – Congress must act. “Let us all remember: trade is not a Republican issue or a Democratic issue – it’s an issue of American competitiveness that demands bipartisan cooperation, and I will continue working with my colleagues to open new markets and connect American goods and services with the markets that demand them. Free trade is an often-overlooked stimulus that this Congress and the Administration cannot afford to ignore.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has estimated that the United States could lose as many as 350,000 jobs should it fail to implement the pending trade agreement with Korea while the European Union and Asia move ahead with agreements of their own.BACKGROUND Republican Leader John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
01.24.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following the reintroduction of the Reform Americans Can Afford Act (H.R. 397), a bill that will replace last year’s healthcare overhaul law with constructive solutions that he has long advocated: “Voting to roll back the healthcare overhaul comes with a responsibility to offer constructive solutions that provide access to better quality, more affordable care,” Reichert said. “I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this proposal that will prevent cost-raising lawsuits by establishing meaningful medical liability reform, increase market competition by allowing Americans to purchase health insurance across state lines, and enable small businesses to band together and buy coverage for their employees as an association. It would also expand the use of health savings accounts, promote healthier lifestyles, and preserve needed reforms such as abolishing preexisting conditions by creating state high-risk pools – all without increasing taxes or cutting Medicare. The American people want this common-sense approach to healthcare reform, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and on the Ways and Means Committee to see this bill become law.”BACKGROUNDReform Americans Can Afford Act (H.R. 397) · Lowering health care premiums. H.R. 397 will lower health care premiums by up to 20 percent compared to current law for families and small businesses, addressing Americans’ number-one priority for health care reform. · Establishing programs to guarantee access to affordable health care for those with pre-existing conditions. H.R. 397 creates programs that fully fund and reform high-risk pools and reinsurance programs to guarantee that all Americans, regardless of pre-existing conditions or past illnesses, have access to affordable care – while lowering costs for all Americans. · Ending junk lawsuits. H.R. 397 would help end costly junk lawsuits and curb defensive medicine by enacting medical liability reforms modeled after successful state laws that reduce unnecessary spending and lower health insurance premiums. · Allowing dependents to remain on their parents’ policies. H.R. 397 encourages coverage of young adults on their parents’ insurance through age 25. · Encouraging Small Business Health Plans. H.R. 397 gives small businesses the power to pool together and offer health insurance at lower prices, just as corporations and unions do. · Allowing Americans to buy insurance across state lines. H.R. 397 increases insurance competition and lowers premiums by allowing Americans to shop for coverage from coast to coast regardless of the state they live in. · Promoting healthier lifestyles. H.R. 397 promotes prevention and wellness by giving employers more flexibility to reward employees who adopt and maintain healthier lifestyles. · Enhancing Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). H.R. 397 expands incentives to save for future health needs and allows the use of HSAs to pay health insurance premiums. Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments (from any source) for healthcare, health delivery systems, and health research. This subcommittee was at the forefront of debate concerning last year’s health care overhaul legislation. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, visit reichert.house.gov. Reichert plans to reintroduce bipartisan legislation, the Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act (H.R. 5936), that would repeal and replace troubling provisions of the health care overhaul recently signed into law. Specifically, this proposal would restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses, repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), and repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines.
01.19.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement following his remarks and vote for legislation that rolls back the healthcare overhaul signed into law last year and directs congressional committees to produce reform legislation: “The healthcare overhaul enacted last year represents a broken promise to the American people,” Reichert said. “Americans were told that the law would reduce costs, cut down on bureaucracy, and allow them to keep their existing plans if they chose to do so. Unfortunately, this wasn’t the case. American employers now face tough choices as they try to balance providing benefits despite rapidly increasing premiums. Small businesses struggle with new administrative burdens and tax penalties imposed on them by an army of IRS agents hired to enforce the healthcare takeover. “Today’s repeal vote is a signal to the American people who made their concerns known that Congress is listening; it’s a signal that we cannot let harmful provisions that are already taking effect continue; and it’s a signal that the real work lies in the weeks and months ahead to replace harmful provisions with better solutions while protecting needed reforms like abolishing preexisting conditions restrictions. I will continue to work with like-minded colleagues across the aisle and on the Ways and Means Committee to enact proposals that provide access to better quality, more affordable care for all Americans.”BACKGROUND Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009. In 2011, he joined the Subcommittee on Health which includes in its jurisdiction programs such as Medicare that provide payments (from any source) for healthcare, health delivery systems, and health research. This subcommittee was at the forefront of debate concerning last year’s health care overhaul legislation. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, visit reichert.house.gov. Reichert plans to reintroduce bipartisan legislation, the Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act (H.R. 5936), that would repeal and replace troubling provisions of the health care overhaul recently signed into law. Specifically, this proposal would restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses, repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), and repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. Reichert will also be an original cosponsor of the Reform Americans Can Afford Act (H.R. 5424) when it is reintroduced in the 112th Congress. This bill will replace the healthcare overhaul law with a number of solutions that Reichert has long advocated such as medical liability reform, purchase of health insurance across state lines, association health plans for small businesses, state high-risk pools for people with pre-existing conditions, an expansion of health savings accounts, and promoting healthier lifestyles, without increasing taxes or cutting Medicare.
01.08.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following the shooting of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords in Tucson, Arizona: "I am shocked and saddened to learn of today's vicious, violent attack on Rep. Giffords and others in Tucson this morning. My thoughts and prayers are with her and her loved ones at this tragic time, and we are holding all of those injured in this attack in our hearts and prayers for a speedy recovery. We must remember them, and keep strong for them at this difficult and tenuous time. “Events such as these shake us to our core; they make us feel vulnerable and remind us that each life is precious. We as Americans must stand tall in the face of such despicable, horrifying acts. We must not – we will not – tolerate such violence in this country, a country that was founded on the ideals of tolerance and respect of the views and rights of all Americans. Rep. Giffords serves the citizens of this country, and we must stand strong together on her behalf, and on behalf of all of those affected by today’s tragedy."
01.08.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced his appointment to serve on the Trade and Health Subcommittees of the House Committee on Ways and Means: Reichert was first appointed to the Ways & Means Committee, the oldest in the United States Congress and the chief tax-writing committee, in January 2009. Now ninth in seniority on the new committee majority, Reichert anticipates his service on the Trade and Health subcommittees in the 112th Congress will afford many opportunities to continue his distinguished leadership and advocacy for job-creating economic policy, the promotion and passage of free trade agreements with partners such as Korea, protecting Medicare benefits for seniors, and addressing the harmful and problematic provisions of the recently passed health care overhaul. “I’m pleased that I’ll have the opportunity to continue my service on Ways & Means, and I look forward to investigating, debating and shaping policies that are critically important to my constituents and all Americans,” Reichert said. “There are many challenges for the 112th Congress to address, and a good deal of legislation focused on stimulating economic recovery and caring for the health of our citizens will develop in Ways & Means and these two key subcommittees. I’m excited about the potential to promote meaningful legislation and to continue employing a bipartisan, solutions-oriented approach to my work in Congress.”BACKGROUND Reichert was appointed to the House Committee on Ways and Means on January 6, 2009, and prior to today’s selection served on the Trade, Oversight and Social Security Subcommittees. The Committee on Ways and Means derives a large share of its jurisdiction from Article I, Section VII of the U.S. Constitution which declares, "All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives." In addition to pending free trade agreements, the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Trade includes bills and matters that relate to customs and customs administration including tariff and import fee structure, classification, valuation of and special rules applying to imports, and special tariff provisions and procedures which relate to customs operation affecting exports and imports … more here. The jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Health includes programs such as Medicare that provide payments (from any source) for health care, health delivery systems, or health research. This subcommittee was at the forefront of debate concerning last year’s health care overhaul legislation.
01.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement moments after being sworn in as a Member of the 112th Congress: “I’m excited and humbled to renew my oath of office today to serve the people of Washington’s 8th District in the 112th Congress,” Reichert said. “It is a tremendous responsibility and honor to fulfill this role, and I thank my constituents for trusting me to continue representing them in our nation’s Capitol. From the thriving city of Bellevue to the remote reaches of Mt. Rainier, we’re fortunate to live in a beautiful district that is home to many vibrant, innovative businesses and organizations dedicated to helping others and improving our communities. “In the days ahead, Congress will debate and pass proposals that will affect the health, livelihood and well being of every American. Our service should, first and foremost, be transparent and respectful, and I will do everything possible to ensure that’s how I serve the people of the 8th District. Our country will surely face both victories and challenges in the future, and I pledge in all things to continue working in a bipartisan way toward the common-sense solutions my constituents need and deserve.”BACKGROUND Reichert was sworn in en masse as a Member of the 112th Congress on the afternoon of Wednesday, January 5 and afterward renewed his oath of office with Speaker John Boehner at an individual ceremony in the Rayburn Room. Reichert is serving his fourth term as the Representative from the Eighth Congressional District of Washington.
01.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced passage within the first hours of the 112th Congress of legislation he authored that would increase government transparency by requiring each of the 21 standing Committees in the U.S. House of Representatives to post recorded votes on their websites within 48 hours. Reichert’s H.Res.874 was included in the package of rules to govern the U.S. House in the 112th Congress, and will allow Americans better access to each and every vote taken by their representatives. “Passage of this legislation sets an appropriate and respectful tone for how we should serve our constituents in the 112th Congress,” Reichert said. “The American people deserve openness, transparency, and to know how their representatives vote in all cases, and I’m pleased with the message we’re sending them today with this important vote. “In the coming months we will debate and pass proposals that will affect the health, livelihood and well being of each and every American, and they should have the right to know how that legislation takes shape at every step along the way,” Reichert continued. “In this day and age it makes no sense that we’re not already offering this information, and my bill will ensure we’ll provide it in a fiscally responsible and easily accessible way by using the existing official committee websites.”BACKGROUND To address the inequity that exists with regard to taxpayer access to information, H.Res.874 is a part of Congressman Reichert’s Common Cents Agenda. This initiative is composed of a variety of legislation that is targeted to ensure government is transparent and accountable to taxpayers. Reichert initially introduced H.Res. 874 on October 28, 2009, in part as a solution to the way in which negotiations were conducted on the trillion-dollar government-run health care overhaul. Had Reichert’s legislation been law at the time those negotiations took place, it would have provided a full picture of members’ support or opposition to a proposal and, for example, quickly revealed that 38 amendments were considered in the House Ways & Means Committee, but 0 passed. This legislation is a fiscally responsible transparency measure that will provide constituents a critical view of what their Member supports at every point in the legislative process.
01.05.2011	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement to congratulate Zachary Guill, a former member of the Wounded Warrior Program, (WWP), who today transitions from his WWP fellowship status in Reichert’s office to full-time employment. Guill is the first member of WWP to be hired by a Member of Congress. “I’m so pleased to officially welcome Zack to Team Reichert. Even though he has been a valued member of our team for two years, today I congratulate him on successful completion of his fellowship and on this transition to a member of my personal staff. Zack is an intelligent, hard-working, and capable young man who has proven himself as an asset to our team and to the residents of our district,” Reichert said. “I was proud when my office was selected to participate in the Wounded Warrior Program and am happy and honored today to be the first Member to transition a WWP fellow from this program to my personal staff.” “Since retiring from military service, I’ve been thankful for the opportunity to continue to serve my fellow Americans and especially other veterans,” Guill said. “My work as a constituent services liaison in Congressman Reichert’s office has been challenging at times, but always rewarding. It feels great knowing that my contributions are appreciated by constituents in the district and valued by the Congressman. I pledge to remain committed to maintaining the high standard of quality constituent services that the Congressman has set and will work to exceed the expectations of those I serve.”BACKGROUND The Wounded Warrior Program, an initiative of the 110th Congress, was established to create fellowships that provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Reichert was one of the first members to participate. To learn more, click here. Zachary Guill, an Army veteran, works in Reichert’s Mercer Island office helping veterans work through issues with and obtain services from the federal government. Guill joined the Army in late 2002 as an airborne infantryman. After basic training and airborne school, he was stationed in Vicenza, Italy and was then deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, and again to Iraq, serving a total of three tours of duty. Two months into his third deployment his vehicle was hit by an IED, where he sustained injuries. Upon returning to the U.S., he worked closely with the Rear Detachment Commander and First Sergeant to ensure wounded soldiers returning home were taken care of and received the proper care that they deserved after serving their country. He was medically retired in late 2008 and later joined Congressman Reichert’s office in December 2008.
12.17.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following his vote supporting the bipartisan compromise tax package that would prevent a massive tax increase on American families and small businesses: “As people across our country struggle through a recession and families are doing everything they can just to make ends meet, government should not reach even deeper into their pockets," Reichert said. “As I travel around my district, I hear one consistent theme over and over from small businesses, the generators of 80 percent of jobs in our country: they need certainty. Certainty to know what Uncle Sam will take from their bottom line now and in the future, and certainty to plan for future investments, hire workers, buy equipment, and pursue the American Dream. Avoiding this tax hike is just as important for families across this country as it is for our small businesses. Just as small businesses need certainty to plan for the future, American families need certainty, too, so they can plan for the cost of higher education for their children, buy a home to call their own, and manage the day-to-day task of making ends meet and providing for basic needs. “I’m also pleased that this proposal extends the deduction for state and local sales taxes – a measure I fought hard for to bring needed relief to every taxpayer in Washington State and 8 other states like ours. This compromise package isn’t perfect; compromise rarely is. But perfection shouldn’t be a barrier to doing what’s practical, necessary, and right – especially in these difficult times. I was proud to support our families and job creators by voting for this proposal."
12.16.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on his vote to repeal the current “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy implemented by President Bill Clinton in 1993: “My first priority has always been to do what is best to support and protect the brave members of our military, their families, and our country,” Reichert said. “After reviewing the Pentagon report, hearing the support of both Secretary of Defense Gates and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Mullen, and personally discussing this issue with our Washington men and women serving on the front lines while visiting them in Afghanistan, as well as with many veterans in Washington’s 8th district, I accept the findings of the Pentagon report that indicate repeal should not affect military effectiveness, and I support repeal of this policy. Secretary Gates has made clear his belief that repeal could be implemented with enough time to prepare for the transition, and I trust he will ensure the appropriate steps are taken to preserve superior recruitment, retention, and readiness of our armed forces. As I have said in the past, one of the greatest duties of this Congress is to protect the freedom and liberty of every American, and I believe it is best for Congress to act in this case rather than leave such an important issue for the courts to decide.”BACKGROUNDPresident Bill Clinton implemented the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 1993 as a way to remove the ban on homosexuals serving in the military. The policy prohibited openly homosexual individuals from serving; however, it also prohibited the Department of Defense from asking soldiers and recruits about their sexual orientation. Since then, this has been the current practice in all branches of our nation’s armed forces. Opponents of this policy have sought to repeal “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” and replace it with a policy of non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. On May 28, Reichert voiced his support for a comprehensive review of the proposed repeal and how such a repeal would be implemented to minimize any impact on the men and women currently serving overseas and in harm’s way.
12.09.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today joined President Barack Obama and business leaders at the White House to discuss trade policy recommendations to grow exports and spur economic recovery and job creation. At this, the second meeting of the President's Export Council, Congressman Reichert engaged in a live webcast dialogue to help shape national strategies aimed at creating jobs by increasing exports of America's sought-after goods and services. Reichert also teamed up with Disney CEO Robert Iger to offer recommendations on how better protection of intellectual property rights protects American jobs. Reichert released this statement at the conclusion of the meeting: “Let me first congratulate the President and his team for their work on reaching a landmark deal on the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement last week. The Korea FTA is essential to our economic recovery, reengagement in the Asia-Pacific, and addressing security challenges on the Korean Peninsula,” Reichert said. “I stand ready to work with the White House to secure the votes to pass the Korea FTA in Congress, and to ultimately chart a course for the Panama and Colombia deals. “The National Export Initiative is all about how the private and public sector can come together to ‘Sell American.’ The business leaders participating in the meeting this morning shared enlightening stories about the principles of sales they practice every day - connecting products with the customers that demand them. When 95% of our customers live outside of the United States, the most important thing we can do to create jobs through the Export Initiative is to open new markets for U.S. companies to compete and sell more American goods and services. If we don’t, others will.”BACKGROUND The President's Export Council (PEC) is the principal national advisory committee on international trade. The Council advises the President on government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance; promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and resolving trade-related problems among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government sectors. Reichert was appointed by the U.S. House of Representatives leadership as one of five members from the House to serve on PEC. Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, is leading the fight in Congress to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
12.08.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the DREAM Act: “I understand that this is an important issue to my constituents and all Americans. This proposal is a direct result of the federal government’s failure to address our broken immigration system. For far too long this issue has been put off, and that approach to governing is simply unacceptable. Unless and until the federal government formulates coherent policy and a viable, orderly immigration system, the American people will continue to see patchwork efforts to address the consequences of inaction. That is no way to address the challenges we face. “What we need today is to find a way to educate and retain bright and talented students who apply themselves, work hard and wish to contribute as productive members of our society. That is what makes our country great, and that’s why Democrats, Independents, and Republicans all must work together to develop solutions that will make this goal a reality. We must treat with compassion, respect and dignity those people who are currently living here as the federal government works to develop those solutions. “However, numerous valid concerns have been raised about the provisions of this proposal, including the age limits, enforcement mechanisms, and potential economic impact of the bill. Based on these concerns, coupled with a broken legislative process that has prematurely forced this proposal to the House floor for a vote – without a single hearing, markup, or opportunity for representatives to offer measures to improve it or address the remaining concerns of the public – I cannot support this bill. The American people are counting on Congress to work together to get this right; I believe it should be considered only after a methodical gathering of all of the facts, viewpoints and robust congressional consideration of this issue in the appropriate context of the larger immigration reform debate.”
12.07.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement recognizing the 69th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor: “President Roosevelt characterized December 7, 1941 as ‘a date which will live in infamy’. I believe Americans can also associate that day with heroism, bravery, and courage,” Reichert said. “The surprise attack on Pearl Harbor was one of the most vicious, tragic events in the history of our country, but the acts of those who survived to fight back, fight on, and fight for each other highlight the enduring character of the American spirit. On this December 7th, I ask that we all pause to remember those who lost their lives in the attack, and the loved ones they left behind. Let us also think of those whose service personifies the ideals and strength that keep this country moving forward during difficult times.”
12.03.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the President’s Export Council (PEC), today released the following statement on the status of negotiations regarding the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): “Today’s announcement by the President about the U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement is an important milestone for an agreement that has languished since its signing in June 2007,” Reichert said. “I applaud the efforts that have allowed us to reach this point. Opening new markets is a no-cost, proven stimulus that is essential to job creation. Each day we fail to implement this agreement is another missed opportunity to create hundreds of thousands of American jobs. Passing the KORUS FTA is vital to our nation’s economic recovery, reengagement in the Asia-Pacific region, and addressing security challenges on the Korean Peninsula. I look forward to working with Ambassador Kirk, my colleagues in Congress, and advocates across the country to broaden support for this agreement.”BACKGROUND Republican Leader John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here.
12.02.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today rejected a proposal that failed to make permanent the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, harming America’s job creators. “With record unemployment and people across our country continuing to struggle, Congress should be doing everything within its power to support job creation, competitiveness and investment,” Reichert said. “Small businesses remain the engines driving the American economy and are our best hope to revive it. In this climate of economic uncertainty, our job creators need smart, sensible tax relief they can count on – the stability of knowing what they owe Uncle Sam from one year to the next, so that they can make important decisions about hiring workers and growing their businesses. That means making permanent all of the 2001 and 2003 income tax rates. As written, this bill would subject nearly half of all small business income in America to a massive tax increase. Raising taxes on job creators in the middle of a recession is the absolute last thing Congress should do. “I’m continually amazed that some in Congress will on one hand talk about tax relief and creating jobs, and on the other hand refuse to implement the policies that would make these goals a reality. It’s disappointing that rather than finally addressing the expiring income tax rates for the first time in two years, Congress instead is voting on political theater. There is broad, bipartisan support for making the 2001 and 2003 income tax rates permanent, and Congress should dedicate itself to the creation and pursuit of bipartisan solutions to prevent income tax hikes, support job-creating investments and incentives, and remove barriers for our entrepreneurs. Only then will the American people enjoy the return to economic prosperity that they need and deserve."
11.29.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement regarding the tragic November 2009 attack and murder of four Lakewood police officers: “A year has passed since these members of the law enforcement family were so suddenly and brutally taken from us, but our hearts are still heavy with mourning. It is difficult for a community to fully recover anytime it loses someone who has committed their life to the service of others, but the senseless murders that occurred in Lakewood on November 29, 2009, were particularly tragic,” Reichert said. “That morning, four Lakewood police officers were killed at a local coffee shop as they prepared for a day of routine patrols – preparing to protect the residents of the city from those who may have wished to do them harm. “In the months that have passed since that horrific day, I have had the honor to attend their memorial service and welcome their families to Washington, D.C. during Police Week when their names were added to the National Law Enforcement Memorial. Our delegation has worked with government officials and agencies to develop bipartisan legislation (H.R. 4969) that would update and improve the policies that regulate how states and law enforcement agencies work together to monitor the movement of criminals across jurisdictions, so a tragedy like this one doesn’t happen again. “And while I’m confident the city of Lakewood and the region’s law enforcement family is moving toward healing from this tragic and senseless loss, this wound is deep and will be slow to heal. In an instant, someone lost a daughter, son, husband, wife, father, mother, or friend. It is up to all of us, all of us who knew the slain officers or simply respect the job they loved to do, to deeply appreciate and always remember their sacrifices. They – as well as the families and the community they left behind – remain in my thoughts and prayers.”
11.11.2010	U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-8), Peter Roskam (IL-6), and Erik Paulsen (MN-3), three co-chairs of the bipartisan congressional working group launched earlier this year to broaden support for the pending U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, today issued the following statements in response to news that trade negotiators missed a deadline to resolve outstanding differences: “I am deeply disappointed that negotiations to resolve the outstanding issues with our pending free trade agreement with South Korea have so far been unsuccessful,” Congressman Reichert said. “As our country continues to face difficult economic challenges, it is absolutely essential that we open new markets for U.S. exports and implement this agreement that has the potential to create thousands of American jobs. The KORUS FTA is the most commercially significant agreement the U.S. has negotiated in 16 years, and each day it languishes is another day our country falls behind. I will continue doing all I can to move this process forward and encourage Korean trade negotiators to swiftly return to the table in good faith to get this deal done before the end of the year.” From Seoul, South Korea, where he has been meeting with top trade officials to urge completion of the agreement, Congressman Roskam observed: "Strengthening ties with our democratic ally South Korea is critical not only to grow the American economy, but also to serve as a strong counterweight to China's increasing influence and aggression in the region. After constructive meetings with Korean leaders this week, I was disappointed that momentum towards a final trade agreement has slowed. I am hopeful that U.S. and Korean negotiators will redouble their efforts to achieve an accord that will level the playing field for American manufacturers and help grow both our countries' economies." "We commend US trade officials for making progress on the Free Trade Agreement with Korea and encourage the negotiators to continue working out their differences on the long-stalled agreement. The US-Korea FTA is far too important for either party to walk away," said Congressman Paulsen. "America’s trade partnership with Korea is vital to our long-term economic growth and job creation. Without it, we’ll effectively cede a key Asian market to the European Union, Australia, India, Japan and other major competitor nations."
11.11.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “Today, we remember. Today, we reflect and express our gratitude to America’s finest men and women; those who have chosen to serve in defense of our freedom and the liberty of so many people around the world,” Reichert said. “Without the unwavering dedication and sacrifice of the men and women who serve today, their families, and the brave generations that came before them, the United States and the freedoms we hold dear would not be possible. “As a Member of Congress, I am humbled by the unique opportunity I have to take an active role in supporting our troops by ensuring they have the resources they need and helping them transition to civilian careers or start small businesses of their own. Today, I encourage Americans to mark this occasion by thanking current and former military servicemen and women for maintaining our safety and security. Please join me in reminding veterans throughout our community and across our great country of our gratitude for the essential role they play in protecting and preserving the American Dream.”
10.19.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today released this statement following Boeing’s announcement that it would require non-union workers to pay much more for their health care plans in 2011: “Today one of Washington state’s largest employers has joined the growing ranks of companies that are altering their health care plans or increasing deductible and copayment costs for their employees due to ‘cost pressure’ associated with the recent health care overhaul,” Reichert said. “Increasing costs on employers when they're struggling to preserve jobs, wages, and benefits for families that are struggling to make ends meet takes us in the wrong direction. As our country faces record unemployment and continued economic challenges, the last thing individuals, families, and businesses need is to be saddled with the burdens and additional taxes created by the health care overhaul. Congress must get to work addressing the problematic provisions of this bill – most importantly the components that are driving up the cost of health care.”BACKGROUNDThe Boeing Company has sent its employees a letter informing them that approximately 90,000 nonunion workers would be paying more for health care plans next year. The letter reads in part: “The newly enacted health care reform legislation, while intended to expand access to care for millions of uninsured Americans, is also adding cost pressure as requirements of the new law are phased in over the next several years." For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways & Means Committee debate on health care legislation, visit https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health. Reichert also recently introduced bipartisan legislation with Congressman Walt Minnick, (ID-01), the Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act (H.R. 5936), that would repeal and replace troubling provisions of the health care overhaul recently signed into law. Specifically, this proposal would restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses, repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), and repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. # # #
10.19.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following the announcement of September’s unemployment numbers: “For nearly a year, our citizens have struggled with near-record unemployment,” Reichert said. “Across this country we have seen the damage done by failed policies – chief among them the failed stimulus – a policy Americans were told would keep unemployment in check. Individuals, families and businesses continue to suffer, and Congress must focus its efforts on creating jobs and doing what’s necessary to revive our economy. “In just 84 days, the American people are set to experience the largest tax increase in history. Congress must do everything possible to prevent this from happening. Rather than saddle the American people with more taxes, Congress must offer common-sense solutions, including offering incentives that will encourage innovation and investment and acting on pending free trade agreements.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics today reported that the economy shed 95,000 jobs in September – a fourth straight month of decline – with an unemployment rate of 9.6 percent. BACKGROUNDWith the expiration of key tax cuts in late 2010 – coupled with the cost of the new health care overhaul law – individuals, families, and businesses are facing dramatic tax increases. Reichert has long been a champion of broad-based tax relief for individuals, families, and small business. He supports: • Making the current income tax rates permanent; • Making permanent the 15-percent capital gains rate, state sales tax deduction, marriage penalty relief, charitable giving deduction, and the child tax credit; • Permanently preserving the research and development tax credit; • Tax credits for renewable and alternative energy, home energy audits, and energy efficient retrofits and new construction; • Repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and the death tax; • Eliminating an unfair tax on health insurance premiums for the self-employed; and • Using the tax code to provide reimbursements and incentives for individuals who provide valuable services to our communities, including our teachers and emergency first responders. # # #
10.05.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement recognizing efforts to support programs that serve victims of domestic violence and raise awareness of this critical issue: “Domestic violence is a scourge in our society, and our goal as a nation should be to completely eliminate it. Having spent 33 years in law enforcement, I witnessed acts of domestic violence and watched the debilitating results play out in families and communities for weeks, months, and years afterward. Domestic violence recognizes no boundaries, and the toll it takes on people across this country is incalculable. We must work harder to raise awareness of this critical issue to ensure people know that help is available, and that they can feel safe in reaching out and taking hold of that help. I urge people to support organizations committed to stamping out domestic violence, and to extend a helping hand to victims in communities across our country. We must all stay vigilant to keep our society and citizens safe and secure.” # # #
10.01.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), today has been named a “Champion for Children” by First Focus Campaign for Children. Champions were honored based on their actions to introduce, cosponsor and vote for legislation that would best meet the needs of children, and their demonstration of extraordinary initiative to spearhead activities such as sponsoring hearings or garnering support of their colleagues to improve the health and well-being of children. “We applaud Congressman Reichert for his unflagging commitment to protect our nation’s future,” said Bruce Lesley, president of the First Focus Campaign for Children. “Children cannot vote, hold press conferences, or donate to political campaigns to thank the Members of Congress that support them and protect their interests. And because of that, today we are honoring those Members on behalf of children. This award is intended to give recognition to our nation's top public officials who take action to make children a national priority. We look forward to working with Congressman Reichert to continue protecting America’s next generation of leaders.” “Every child’s life is precious, and it is an honor, a privilege, and a highlight of my public service career to advocate for their health, safety, and well-being,” Reichert said. “Children are among the most vulnerable members of our society, and they are the future of our country – their interests should be our top priority. I’ll be proud to continue doing everything within my power to ensure they have access to quality healthcare, the best education opportunities, and every possible advantage to set them on course for productive, successful lives.”BACKGROUND Reichert has dedicated his entire career to protect, strengthen, and create opportunities for children. From his 33-year career in law enforcement, including his service as the Sheriff of King County, to representing Washington’s Eighth District in the U.S. House of Representatives, he has been a tireless, vocal champion on their behalf. Highlights of Reichert’s work include:FOUNDER AND CO-CHAIRMAN, CONGRESSIONAL CHILDREN’S HEALTH CARE CAUCUS: With the assistance of the National Association of Children’s Hospitals, Reichert founded a bipartisan caucus dedicated to building support for legislation that improves the quality of care for children and their access to it. The caucus advances legislative initiatives that provide access to health coverage, ensure preventative care, seek cures for debilitating diseases and chronic conditions, and promote healthy living habits for America’s children.FORMED CONGRESSIONAL TASK FORCE ON CHILDHOOD OBESITY: The bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Childhood Obesity works to identify, discuss, and promote policy ideas to address this epidemic as well as to organize educational briefings in correlation with relevant organizations. This effort provides a legislative compliment to those undertaken by the Administration, including the First Lady’s Let’s Move campaign and President Obama’s creation of a Task Force on Childhood Obesity by executive order.INCREASED FUNDS FOR CHILDREN’S EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES: Reichert passed an amendment increasing funding by $2.5 million for children’s emergency medical services. The EMSC program provides grants to states and medical institutions to expand and improve emergency care for children who need treatment for life-threatening illnesses or injuries.SUPPORTED STATE CHILDREN’S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM: Reichert supported expanding coverage for low-income children and a funding equity “fix” for children in Washington state.INVESTMENT IN NIH MEDICAL RESEARCH: Reichert co-led a three-year effort to increase across-the-board funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Medical research plays a vital role in the search for cures to diseases and conditions like juvenile diabetes, pediatric cancer, juvenile arthritis, and muscular dystrophy. He also is an original cosponsor of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act.IMPROVING SCHOOL SAFETY: Reichert authored and successfully passed an amendment providing funds to upgrade and install important school safety technology so that schools are prepared for emergencies like campus violence, natural disasters, and acts of terrorism.PREVENTING SCHOOL VIOLENCE: Reichert authored and successfully passed an amendment to provide new resources for a federal program that helps schools combat sexual harassment, bullying, and gang-related violence. # # #
10.01.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the President’s Export Council and the House Ways & Means Committee, today rejected a flawed, politically motivated proposal that would do nothing to address Chinese currency concerns while risking retaliation that could cost U.S. jobs. “Growing exports means growing jobs here at home,” Reichert said. “That’s why the legislation considered today is so misguided and so wrong for Washington state, which counts China as our single biggest export market for goods and services ranging from Boeing airplanes to Microsoft software to apples, cherries, and other Northwest commodities. This bill would do nothing to address the currency issue, but what it would do is create unnecessary trade tensions with China and prevent us from tackling more pressing issues in our economic relationship, including the piracy of intellectual property rights that cost U.S. businesses $9 billion per year. “This bill is a poor excuse for a trade agenda,” Reichert continued. “It’s truly disappointing that rather than hold even a single hearing to consider pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama that have languished for years and have the potential to create hundreds of thousands of U.S. jobs, the only trade vote of this Congress is on hastily crafted, politically motivated legislation that puts U.S. jobs at risk. This is yet another example of what’s wrong with Washington, DC.”BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
09.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today has been honored for the second time by Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families with the Best of Congress award for improving the American quality of life through family-friendly work policies. The recognition, which Reichert also received in 2008, spotlights his congressional excellence and leadership in improving the quality of life for working families across the country, and for supporting family-friendly policies for working-parent staff in his own office. A profile of Reichert is featured online in Working Mother magazine here. “I’m pleased and honored to accept this recognition,” Reichert said. “Each and every day across our country, working parents make remarkable contributions to our economy and our communities – all while balancing responsibilities at work and at home. I’ll continue doing all I can to make sure that they have the resources and support necessary to achieve their personal and professional goals.” "We are honored to recognize Dave Reichert as being one of the Best of Congress Award recipients,” said Tiffany Westover-Kernan, Vice President of Business Development and Government Relations for Corporate Voices for Working Families (CVWF).“Representative Reichert understands America’s workforce is changing and more families are juggling the demands of work and home. His legislative efforts to provide families with the freedom to make choices that work best for them as well as meet the needs of our 21st century workforce are commendable. His personal commitment to helping his staff balance their work and life commitments is also to be applauded." Applications were reviewed by a bipartisan steering committee co-chaired by Ted Childs, Founder and Principal of Ted Childs, LLC and Jane Swift, Founder and Principal of WNP Consulting, LLC and former Governor of Massachusetts. Also on the steering committee were Deborah Pryce, attorney at Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge & Rice and former congresswoman from Ohio, and Pat Schroeder, President and CEO of the Association of American Publishers and former congresswoman from Colorado. Reichert and his fellow honorees were presented today with their awards at a recognition breakfast in Washington at Charlie Palmer Steak. Awards were presented by leading business representatives who support this important initiative.BACKGROUND Reichert was also honored in 2008 by Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families with the inaugural Best of Congress award for improving the American quality of life through family-friendly work policies. The organization profiled Reichert in its August/September 2008 issue of Working Mother magazine and online.About Corporate Voices for Working Families (CVWF)CVWF is the leading national business membership organization representing the private sector on public policy issues involving working families. They aim to improve the lives of working families and the competitiveness of American businesses. Learn more here and here. Contact: Rob Jewell (rjewell@cvworkingfamilies.org; 330.631.9298)About Working Mother Media Founded in 1979, Working Mother magazine reaches 2 million readers and is the only national magazine for career-committed mothers. Its 22-year signature initiative, Working Mother 100 Best Companies, is the most important benchmark for work/life practices in corporate America. Working Mother is published by Working Mother Media, which was founded in 2001. WMM includes the National Association for Female Executives (NAFE), Diversity Best Practices, the WorkLife Congress, the Multicultural Women's Conference and Town Halls. Working Mother Media's mission is to champion culture change. For more information, please visit this link. Contact: Jackie Cook, The Rosen Group (Jackie@rosengroup.com; 212.255.8455) # # #
09.17.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the President’s Export Council (PEC), today participated in the first meeting of the nation’s principal advisory committee on international trade to discuss the President’s National Export Initiative and offer policy recommendations. Reichert is one of only five Members of the U.S. House of Representatives selected to serve on the Council. “It’s an honor to serve on the Export Council alongside distinguished public servants and leaders of some of America’s largest companies. I appreciate the opportunity to work with the many views represented and to offer my own ideas to the President and his team on trade policy,” Reichert said. “Plain and simple: Exports mean jobs. My top priority on the Council is to advocate for new market access for American goods and services, which is absolutely essential to create and preserve American jobs. Inaction on trade is not an option – the failure to act while competitors like the European Union, China, and India race ahead will cost us jobs, and America’s economy, workers, and leadership in the international community will suffer as a result. “I will continue to work in my role on the Council to emphasize to the Administration the critical importance of approving pending trade agreements and pursuing new ones, especially in the Asia-Pacific region,” Reichert continued. “The President set an ambitious goal in his National Export Initiative of creating 2.1 million jobs by doubling exports in the next five years, but that goal cannot be achieved without opening new markets. Swift action to resolve differences and approve pending free trade agreements is the first step, beginning with Korea. I applaud the President’s timeline to resolve issues with the Korea FTA by the G-20 summit in November. The Korea FTA is vital to job creation, our strategic and national security interests, and to supporting a close friend and ally of the United States that has a strong record on labor rights and environmental protection. We must get this deal done, and soon.” Established in 1973 by President Richard Nixon, the PEC advises the President on government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance; promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and resolving trade-related challenges among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government sectors. More information can be found on the Council’s Web site.BACKGROUND Republican Leader John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy when appointing him to serve on the PEC: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.” Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate for free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee,, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Reichert founded the bipartisan U.S.-Korea FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and teamed up with Adam Smith (WA-09) to garner the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. He also traveled to South Korea with a delegation, led by former Governor of Washington and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, to meet with President Lee Myung-Bak and members of the Korean National Assembly in order to express support for a continued economic partnership. Reichert was honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
09.13.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement: "As we wake up this morning to enjoy the weekend with our families and friends, I hope we will all pause to reflect on the historic tragedy that struck our country on September 11, 2001. We must never forget those people who lost their lives that day: the innocent victims, the firefighters, the members of law enforcement and first responders - they will live on in our memories. We also remember the brave men and women of our military, many of whom paid the ultimate price in the fight to protect our freedom and prevent another attack. We honor all of these people today and must never forget their sacrifice." # # #
08.31.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following President Obama’s speech regarding Iraq and the economy: “I appreciate the President’s recognition of our brave men and women in uniform who have worked so hard to bring a measure of peace and stability to Iraq,” Reichert said. “The progress we have made in that country to date would not have been possible without the stellar capabilities or the sacrifice of our courageous military men and women or their leaders. I thank them, and their families, for their selfless dedication and commitment to the service of our country. “As this phase of the war comes to a close, we must not forget that even though this is being characterized as the end of the combat mission, thousands of troops continue to serve directly in harm's way. We still have troops who are sweeping for IEDs. We still have troops who at any moment could become victims of a suicide bomb attack. And we must not forget that the situation in Iraq is still fragile, and we must give our troops every possible resource and advantage to complete the mission set before them. I hope the President will listen to the Generals he has trusted to implement his policy decisions, and that he ensures they have the support they need to be successful. “I also appreciate the President’s focus on the need to get our economy back on track,” Reichert continued. “But the way we’ll get there is by having members of Congress focus on common-sense, bipartisan solutions that extend critical tax relief, provide access to credit and to job-creating investments and incentives, remove obstacles from the paths of our innovative entrepreneurs, and enact our pending free trade agreements. That’s what will deliver the economic recovery Americans need and deserve, and I’ll never stop fighting for these proposals.” # # #
08.31.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the President’s Export Council (PEC), today joined with the Greater Seattle Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Development Alliance of Greater Seattle to welcome Republic of Korea Ambassador Han Duk-soo to the Pacific Northwest. “I’m happy to welcome Ambassador Han to the great state of Washington. I thank him for his tireless leadership and his dedication to ensuring we’re able to build the support necessary to bring the U.S.–South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) to a vote in Congress,” Reichert said. “The Ambassador has been a great partner as we work to resolve the outstanding issues that have so far prevented consideration of this agreement. In June we joined together in Washington, DC, to launch the bipartisan KORUS FTA Working Group to broaden support for the agreement, and we will continue cooperating to inform the debate on this important issue. “In these difficult economic times, we must remember that trade is critical to economic growth and creating American jobs,” Reichert continued. “Opening new markets to trade is a job creator, and failure to open those markets is costing America jobs while other nations move ahead. We can’t afford to be left behind. Passing the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement has the potential to create thousands of American jobs and continue a partnership with a democratic ally that has a strong record on labor rights and environmental protection, and I look forward to continued collaboration with Amb. Han to move this process forward.”BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
08.10.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement: “Congress cannot tax our country into economic recovery,” Reichert said. “At a time when Congress should be promoting job creation, competitiveness and investment, today we’ve seen exactly the opposite – and it’s being done in the name of teachers, first responders and health care. Today’s vote means a permanent, $12.2 billion-dollar tax hike on employers that will seriously harm their ability to compete in the global economy, and it means cuts to the Department of Defense. That’s exactly the wrong action to take in the middle of a recession, when even by the administration’s own calculations these tax hikes could cost an estimated 141,000 private sector jobs. “It is clear that government is broken,” Reichert continued. “Temporary bailouts should not be paid for with permanent tax increases that can have such negative, long-term economic consequences. What Congress should be focused on instead are common-sense, bipartisan solutions that extend critical tax relief, provide access to job-creating investments and incentives, and remove obstacles from the paths of our innovative entrepreneurs. That’s what will deliver the recovery Americans need and deserve, and I’ll never stop fighting for these proposals.”BACKGROUND A host of organizations have voiced their concern with the tax hikes included in today’s legislation, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), the Business Roundtable (BRT) and the Promote America’s Competitive Edge (PACE) Coalition.U.S. Chamber of Commerce: “[U.S. Chamber of Commerce] strongly opposes H.R. 1586, which would impose draconian tax increases on American worldwide companies that would hinder job creation, decrease the competitiveness of American businesses, and deter economic growth.”NAM: “An estimated 22 million people in the United States – more than 19 percent of the private sector workforce and 53 percent of all manufacturing employees – are employed by companies with operations overseas. Manufacturers feel strongly that imposing $9.6 billion in tax increases on these companies as proposed in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1586 will jeopardize the jobs of American manufacturing employees and stifle our fragile economy…Some of the proposed tax increases, which are mischaracterized as closing tax loopholes, actually represent significant changes to pro-growth tax policy supported by Congress and the Administration.” # # #
08.05.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today hosted a roundtable for representatives from nine local businesses to discuss the economy, job creation, access to credit, financial regulation and other issues important to these community business leaders. "Today provided a valuable opportunity to hear from business owners in my district about the challenges they're facing," Reichert said. "In Washington state, where 85 percent of jobs are created by small businesses, these local leaders are fighting to help get our economy back on track, and I will continue fighting on their behalf. That includes working to keep taxes low, to provide access to credit, to pass our pending free trade agreements, and to lead in this global economy." Representatives from the following businesses participated in today's roundtable: Dennis B Goldstein & Associates R.W. KIM & Company MB Metals Inc Benardout Enterprises Affiliated Associations of America DPE Systems Windermere Real Estate/Property Management Deluxe Bar & Grill Banners On A Roll # # #
08.05.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined the City of Maple Valley and the Maple Valley Police Department at Glacier Valley Community Park Tuesday evening to promote National Night Out (NNO), an annual crime and drug prevention event. “National Night Out is about people getting to know their neighbors and coming together to build relationships and watch out for each other,” Reichert said. “This event helps each community directly by educating people about watching out for suspicious behavior, vehicles and criminals – but it also helps other neighborhoods throughout the region because criminals today are so mobile. When you increase awareness you increase safety, and I appreciate so much everything Maple Valley is doing to foster a sense of community where people look out for the interests of their neighbors. “I’ve participated in these events for years, attending every National Night Out during my time as Sheriff, and one of the things I enjoyed most was the diversity of our communities,” Reichert continued. “Watching the way different cultures and communities would come together to share traditions, stories, different types of food – it truly demonstrates what makes America great. It’s so rewarding to be part of our society coming together and discovering that we all want the same things for our families: a neighborhood where families can have a safe and secure place for their kids, where children can take walks, ride bikes and play in the parks – it doesn’t get much better than that. This isn’t just about preventing crime; it’s about enjoying quality of life.”BACKGROUND Reichert has long supported NNO throughout his 33-year career in law enforcement, as King County Sheriff for 7 years, and during his time serving in the U.S. Congress. This year communities across the country celebrated the 27th annual NNO. Each year this campaign brings together community members, law enforcement, businesses and other groups and officials to bring increased awareness to community safety, and drug and crime prevention. Last year more than 15,000 communities and 36 million people participated. NNO is designed to: Heighten crime and drug prevention awareness; generate support for, and participation in, local anti-crime programs; strengthen neighborhood spirit and police-community partnerships; and send a message to criminals letting them know that neighborhoods are organized and fighting back. More information on NNO is available here. This year’s event in Maple Valley was co-sponsored by the National Association of Town Watch (NATW), the Maple Valley Police Department, the King County Sheriff’s Office, Maple Valley Fire and Life Safety, Tahoma High School District, Dairy Queen, Home Depot, Marble Slab Creamery, McDonald’s and Target. # # #
08.03.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today convened a meeting of his health care advisory committee to brief members on his recent health care legislative work and to discuss related issues with recognized leaders in the health care field. “I appreciate so much the opportunity to hear the concerns and suggestions of these leaders who serve on the front lines of the health care industry each day caring for the well being of our citizens,” Reichert said. “This meeting provided a valuable forum for doctors as well as insurance, IT, consulting and other health care professionals to exchange information about the affect of the new health care overhaul and to share ideas about the challenges we face to make sure every American has access to quality, affordable health care. I will be taking these ideas and suggestions back to Washington, DC, where I will continue fighting for common-sense reform to our health care system.” Dr. Fred Tobis, chairman of the advisory committee, moderated today’s event. Topics discussed by the committee included: · Insurance coverage and the implications of the new health care overhaul for employer-provided coverage; · The potential for some employers to drop coverage based on cost and reporting requirements; · Children’s health care coverage and Reichert’s task force to address childhood obesity; · Radiology and mammography standards; · Health information technology and enhanced communication among hospitals and medical centers; · How to promote prevention, wellness and healthy lifestyle decisions and how these choices affect health care costs; · Changes in medical workforce structure to accommodate changes associated with the new law; · Medical liability reform; and · Government’s role in health care. Representatives who participated in today’s advisory committee meeting included: Swedish Medical Center Tacoma/Pierce County Public Health Microsoft Center for Physician Leadership Training Washington State Medical Association Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility Health Point Premera Blue Cross Children’s Hospital Overlake Reproductive Health # # #
07.30.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, and Congressman Walt Minnick (ID-01) today introduced the Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act (H.R. 5936), legislation that would repeal and replace troubling provisions of the health care overhaul recently signed into law. Specifically, the Reichert/Minnick proposal would restore the 7.5 percent income threshold to deduct out-of-pocket medical expenses, repeal the cap on the maximum annual contribution to Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs), and repeal the ban that prohibits holders of FSAs and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. “As Americans continue to struggle to make ends meet, and as our country faces record unemployment and economic challenges, the last thing individuals and families need is to be saddled with more taxes created by the health care overhaul,” Reichert said. “Our proposal would make sure that the average American family doesn’t bear the burden of this bill. People across this country are looking for common-sense solutions, and this legislation delivers. I will never stop fighting to bring meaningful reform to health care, and that includes repealing and replacing things like the harmful taxes and caps created by this new law.” A breakdown of the Reichert/Minnick legislation follows.Restoring Assistance for Families and Seniors Health Expenses Act, H.R. 5936 The health care overhaul law included an increase, from 7.5 percent to 10 percent of income, the threshold after which individuals can deduct out of pocket medical expenses. H.R. 5936 restores the deduction to the original percentage. - H.R. 5936 would restore the medical expenses deduction to 7.5 percent of taxable income. - According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, more than 95 percent of the tax increase imposed by this change would fall on filers earning under $200,000. The health care overhaul law placed a new cap ($2,500 starting in 2011) on the maximum annual contribution to a Flexible Savings Account (FSA). H.R. 5936 repeals this cap.- FSAs – which are currently used by 35 million Americans – encourage consumers to be more aware of both the cost and quality of health care goods and services. - By limiting the value of FSAs, the legislation undermines this important incentive for cost control for millions of Americans. Additionally, for many Americans with chronic conditions, FSAs present an opportunity to set money aside to cover the ongoing cost of care. - Approximately 7 million Americans put more than $2,500 into their FSAs. According to the Employers Council on Flexible Compensation, the median income of an FSA holder in 2008 was just $55,000. The health care overhaul law included a new ban starting in 2011 prohibiting holders of FSAs and HSAs (as well as Archer MSAs and Health Reimbursement Accounts) from using money from their accounts to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. H.R. 5936 repeals this provision.- Some OTC medicines, such as Claritin or Prilosec, can now be purchased over the counter for half the price of their prescription versions. - By eliminating the ability to use an FSA or HSA for the purchase of such medicines, individuals will be forced to use more expensive prescription drugs. # # #
07.30.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the “CLEAR Act”, H.R. 3534: “The Deep Water Horizon oil spill was a tragedy of historic proportion, and there is no doubt that Congress must play a role to make sure oil and gas drilling operations are safe and secure,” Reichert said. “That’s why I recently introduced a proposal to make sure that better technology and safety measures are in place. The CLEAR Act does include certain beneficial measures I support, including funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund. But there is a better way to accomplish these objectives. In these difficult economic times, I simply won’t support a proposal that would raise taxes, destroy jobs and raise gas prices by creating a new tax on gasoline. Moving people and goods is a critical part of economic recovery, and I won’t support a measure that makes these things more expensive – especially in the middle of a recession.” BACKGROUNDReichert last month introduced the Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act, which adds to his distinguished record of holding oil companies accountable for their actions. Specifically, the bill amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to require that all oil and gas drilling and production operations on the Outer Continental Shelf have safety and environmental management systems in place, including blowout preventers and additional back-up emergency shutoff equipment, and that such equipment uses the best available and safest technologies. The Secretary of Interior will be tasked with: (1) incorporating safety technology information from independent scientists and experts, academic institutions and from technology used internationally; and (2) considering the need for different technology requirements in different environments and depths. Reichert’s other work on this issue includes fighting for victims of the Exxon-Valdez spill, including coauthoring legislation granting preferential tax treatment to victims to ensure their settlements weren’t affected by Exxon’s delays paying claims; voting to eliminate billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies for big oil companies and using that money to promote clean, renewable energy; and spearheading an effort to prevent supertankers in Puget Sound. # # #
07.27.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to support funding for troops and ongoing operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Reichert also supported provisions that designated funding for the Army Corps of Engineers to address damages to the Howard Hanson Dam located in his district. “I’m proud to support our troops and the work they’re doing every day to fight for our safety and security,” Reichert said. “The brave men and women of our military put their lives on the line each day to protect the freedom we hold dear, and I am determined to provide them with the resources, equipment and tools they need to fight, to win, and to come home safe and sound to their families and friends.” “I was also proud to work with the Washington delegation to make sure the Army Corps of Engineers was provided the funding it needs to address damage to the Howard Hanson Dam,” Reichert continued. “This is absolutely critical to protect the people, businesses, and infrastructure of the Green River Valley and the health of our state and local economies. I’ve made fighting for these resources a top priority, and I’m pleased that this funding has been secured for the Corps.”
07.26.2010	Harold McGraw III, Chairman, President and CEO of The McGraw-Hill Companies and Chairman of the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) “By tapping into these growing markets abroad, we will create new high-paying jobs here at home and take an essential step toward reviving global economic growth and raising standards of living around the world. . . . By working together, I am confident we will go three for three on our agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama.”U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA-8th) “As a member of the President’s Export Council and the Ways & Means Trade subcommittee, I’m pleased to join with Ambassadors Han and Barco, ECAT Chairman McGraw, and my fellow legislators to talk about what opening new markets means for job creation and our economy. I’m encouraged that the Administration is working to resolve outstanding issues that have so far prevented consideration of the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement. That’s why I recently launched the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement Working Group – and I look forward to expanding the broad, bipartisan consensus that opening new markets for U.S. exports can create thousands of American jobs and jumpstart economic recovery.” Representative Bobby Bright (D-AL-2nd) “Momentum is growing to pass the South Korea-U.S. Free Trade agreement. I am pleased to once again join with my colleague Dave Reichert and ECAT to stress the need to get this important agreement passed in Congress. Just this week, the Hyundai facility in Montgomery announced it had reached record output when it produced 31,500 Sonatas and Santa Fes in June, an output 12.5% higher than this time last year. I can only imagine what we could do if we expanded our trade with South Korea so the rest of the country could benefit from our close relationship. This is a commonsense way to grow jobs, and I urge my colleagues to help us pass the KORUS FTA.” U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28th) “Now more than ever, trade is vitally important to the economic vitality of the United States. Expanding U.S. exports will create American jobs, provide broad economic benefits to the United States and hasten our economic recovery. As the founder of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus, I will continue to advocate the swift passage of the pending free trade agreements between the United States and Colombia, Panama and South Korea. Our global economic competitiveness depends on passing these and other free trade agreements that lower tariffs for American goods and create American jobs at home.”Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) “This is a jobs issue as much as it is a security issue. Our farmers, manufacturers, and service providers are counting on us to level the playing field. They stand to lose ground to international competitors if we fail to implement our trade agreements with Colombia and Panama promptly. Once lost, market share is hard to win back—and with it go the jobs that would have been sustained by those lost export opportunities” Ambassador Carolina Barco, Ambassador of Colombia “The FTA between Colombia and the US . . . is considered a top priority by our government, as part of our own pledge to increase our presence in the world economy. But we are not standing still. Since 2002 one of [the] Uribe´s administration strategies has been opening new markets. Our goal for 2010 is to have 11 FTA´s with 47 countries, which means more than 1.4 billion potential consumers for our exporters. As you well know, the FTA with Canada has been approved by the Canadian Parliament and has received the Royal Assent. We have already signed the FTA with Europe, and [are] still in negotiations with Korea and Panamá.” Ambassador Han Duk-soo, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea "In order to promote the Korea-U.S. Trade Partnership and KORUS FTA, I have visited many U.S. cities this year. In every city I visited, I met people who had concerns about free trade, but were eager to meet the challenges and explore new foreign markets. I strongly believe the KORUS FTA will be beneficial to workers, businesses and farmers in both our countries. . . . With a disciplined focus on the outstanding issues in the FTA's auto and beef chapters, the two sides should be able to reach creative and mutually acceptable solutions so that President Obama’s timetable can be met. The Korean government will engage in the discussions sincerely and in good faith." # # #
07.13.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert and Matthew Bott, Chief Executive Officer of the Greater Issaquah Chamber of Commerce, joined Friday to host a roundtable for representatives from 12 local and small businesses to discuss the economy, job creation, insurance, education, and other issues important to local business leaders. "This visit reinforced my belief that though economic conditions may be tough -- the people of my district are tougher," Reichert said. "Our discussion provided a valuable opportunity to hear from these local leaders about the challenges they face as well as the solutions and ideas they have about how to improve our economy. I'm proud to represent such bright, capable, creative and innovative business people, and I look forward to carrying their ideas back to Washington DC and fighting for their proposals. I left this meeting impressed with the optimism I saw, and more determined than ever to continue leading the fight to keep taxes low, provide access to credit, deliver common-sense health care reform that first addresses the high cost of care, and ensure we are able to lead the global economy. This is in the best interest of our country today and the future of our children and grandchildren." "Issaquah business leaders appreciated the opportunity to spend time with Congressman Reichert to talk about the opportunities and challenges facing our various businesses," Bott said. "In this time of economic uncertainty and near record-high unemployment, we appreciate balanced leaders, who, like Congressman Reichert, understand that it is economic vitality, the entrepreneurial spirit, and the free enterprise system that will create and sustain jobs on the Eastside and throughout our region and country," added Bott. Representatives from the following businesses participated in the roundtable: State Farm Insurance Greater Issaquah Chamber of Commerce Port Blakely Communities EnRoute Systems Shipping Solutions Firm Bank of the Northwest Costco Corporate Shirey Contracting Better By Design Meadow Creek Professional Center Windermere Real Estate Radford Guitar # # #
06.30.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following a vote in the House of Representatives to pass the most sweeping overhaul of the financial system since the 1930s. Despite significant bipartisan opposition, today’s proposal to create an elaborate government bureaucracy with unprecedented powers passed by a vote of 237-192. “I do believe real reform is necessary, but that reform should be targeted to better enforce laws on the books, and modernize the financial regulatory system,” Reichert said. “It’s clear that abuses contributed to the current financial crisis, and that our outdated regulatory system failed to prevent that abuse. But the last thing the American people want right now is another government takeover of private industry. The proposal Congress considered today shows a total disregard for paying down the deficit with unused TARP funds. These taxpayer dollars were not meant to be used as a slush fund for new federal spending. What Congress should instead focus on is modernizing the system and making credit more available, not taking action that will result in government over-reaching, over-regulation, and further constricting access to credit. “Congress must do its part to make sure that authorities are empowered to prevent a range of scams, fraud and abuse that contributed to this mess in the first place. What America needs most today is a regulatory structure that serves consumers, lenders, and financial businesses better, rather than wasting billions of hard-earned taxpayer dollars to create more government bureaucracy – with limited congressional oversight. That’s why, back in December, I supported and helped offer a bipartisan amendment to allow existing, experienced regulators to coordinate better, protect consumers, and help small lenders extend credit to families and small businesses. I’ll continue pursuing common sense reforms of this nature to get our economy and our country back on stable footing.” BACKGROUNDIn December, Reichert supported legislation to improve consumer protections and modernize the nation’s financial regulatory system without additional government spending and excessive new government bureaucracy. He helped offer a bipartisan amendment providing a superior protection of American consumers by enforcing current laws with experienced regulators rather than creating a new agency with a “czar” to oversee all financial products. He took issue with the proposed bill, under which a new bureaucracy would be created to review and approve consumer financial products while having unprecedented, virtually unchecked authority to restrict product choices for consumers. The alternative Reichert offered would protect consumers through new coordination of existing, experienced regulators while better coordinating existing standards. Reichert today also supported language proposed by Rep. Ron Paul related to a comprehensive, robust audit of the Federal Reserve that he also supported in December’s House-passed version of the bill. Finally, Reichert opposed a provision that would create an Office of Financial Research, a new federal agency that will have unprecedented power to track the financial activities of all Americans. # # #
06.30.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following the announcement of the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling that Airbus had received billions of dollars in subsidies that violated international trade agreements: “Today is a victory for Washington State, and for our country,” Reichert said. “Early on, when we first learned of the subsidy issue, I was proud to fight for a fair process for Boeing. Today’s WTO ruling confirms what we have long believed: that Airbus received illegal launch aid subsidies in its efforts to compete with Boeing. This is an important milestone in this process, and it’s a fine example of the role enforcement plays in international trade for American companies. I commend the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative – under both Ambassadors Schwab and Kirk –for their persistence in seeing this case through on Boeing’s behalf. “I’ve always believed that if given a level playing field, Boeing’s workers can compete and win anywhere, because Washington State’s aerospace workers are second to none. Our workers’ knowledge and skills are built upon three generations of engineers, manufacturers, and craftsmen who are dedicated to producing the finest products in the world. “The Department of Defense must now take these findings into account as it awards the KC-X tanker contract, and I will continue to fight to make sure they do that. The public release of these findings is good news for Washington State, but also for American workers.” # # #
06.30.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert today launched the bipartisan Congressional U.S. – South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) Working Group to build further support for efforts to resolve outstanding issues and prepare the agreement for congressional consideration. The bipartisan group is composed of: U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), U.S. Rep. Bobby Bright (AL-02), U.S. Rep. Peter Roskam (IL-06), U.S. Rep. Diane Watson (CA-33), U.S. Rep. Erik Paulsen (MN-03), and U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09). At a press conference Reichert hosted today, members were joined by Han Duk-soo, the Republic of Korea’s Ambassador to the United States, and Selina Jackson, Vice President, International Public Affairs at UPS and a Corporate Co-Chair of the U.S.-Korea FTA Business Coalition. “I’m encouraged by the weekend announcement that the Administration is working to resolve the outstanding issues that have so far prevented consideration of our pending free trade agreement with South Korea, and I’m proud that this bipartisan group has come together to help broaden support for the agreement,” said Reichert. “There is broad bipartisan consensus that opening new markets for U.S. exports can create thousands of American jobs and jumpstart economic recovery. Passing the US-Korea Free Trade Agreement has the potential to create thousands of American jobs and continue a partnership with a democratic ally that has a strong record on labor rights and environmental protection. I look forward to working with my colleagues to share information and contribute to moving this process forward.” Today, June 30th marks the third anniversary of the signing of the KORUS FTA, the most commercially significant agreement the U.S. has negotiated in fifteen years. In light of President Obama’s encouraging weekend announcement that a process is being established to resolve outstanding issues with the agreement by November’s G-20 meeting, the bipartisan Congressional KORUS FTA Working Group is being launched to facilitate dialogue on those issues, disseminate information about what the agreement means for different regions of the country and sectors of the economy, and aid deliberations to swiftly prepare the agreement for congressional consideration.BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
06.29.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today introduced the bipartisan Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act with Congressman Jay Inslee (WA-01) in the wake of the Deep Water Horizon oil spill. “I want to ensure Congress does everything possible to prevent another tragedy of the magnitude we’ve witnessed with the Deep Water Horizon spill,” Reichert said. “That’s why I’ve partnered with Rep. Jay Inslee to introduce the Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act, which will make sure that oil and gas drilling operations have better technology and safety measures in place, including the most advanced emergency shut-off equipment. This proposal should be a key part of Congressional action to address this disaster and its aftermath. “The Deep Water Horizon spill is a tragedy of historic proportion for the Gulf Coast and has severe implications for the environment and the economy. Those in charge of managing this crisis must do everything possible to stop the leak and the damage it’s doing to the environment and the livelihoods of those people affected by the spill. BP is responsible for this tragedy and must pay for the extensive damage that has been done,” Reichert continued. “American taxpayers should not bear any financial burden in this crisis. The company has rightly accepted responsibility for this tragedy, and they must now be held to their commitment to pay for these damages. The federal government also must take responsibility for its disorganized response and its role in not holding BP to standards they clearly didn’t hold themselves to. That’s the role of regulators; in this case their failure unforgivably made BP’s failures even worse. “This event also serves as an important reminder on a larger scale: for the sake of our national security we must do everything possible to move to the next generation of energy, weaning our nation of its dependence on foreign oil. Allowing unstable areas of the world to dictate our energy supply is dangerous, and not in our country’s best interest. “Finally, this is a serious issue that should not be oversimplified or politicized for political gain. Attempting to do so is a big part of what’s broken in Washington, DC. Too often we see a willingness to speak quickly in an attempt to score political points. It’s wrong to politicize this issue that threatens our environment, our economy, and the livelihoods of our fellow Americans. I will continue thoughtfully gathering facts and information in order to put forward productive proposals, as I’ve done here today with the Offshore Drilling Safety Improvement Act. This has and always will be my approach to any issue affecting Washington’s Eighth District and our country.” BACKGROUNDThis legislation adds to Reichert’s distinguished record of holding oil companies accountable for their actions. Specifically, the bill will amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to require that all oil and gas drilling and production operations on the Outer Continental Shelf have safety and environmental management systems in place, including blowout preventers and additional back-up emergency shutoff equipment, and that such equipment uses the best available and safest technologies. The Secretary of Interior will be tasked with: (1) incorporating safety technology information from independent scientists and experts, academic institutions and from technology used internationally; and (2) considering the need for different technology requirements in different environments and depths. Reichert’s other work on this issue includes fighting for victims of the Exxon-Valdez spill, including coauthoring legislation granting preferential tax treatment to victims to ensure their settlements weren’t affected by Exxon’s delays paying claims; voting to eliminate billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies for big oil companies and using that money to promote clean, renewable energy; and spearheading an effort to prevent supertankers in Puget Sound. # # #
06.24.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released this statement following his rejection of campaign “reform” legislation that contains troubling protections for special interest groups: “It’s ironic that a bill supposedly designed to increase transparency in our election process was crafted in secret and includes carve-outs for special interest groups,” Reichert said. “The troublesome protections for these groups raise the red flag that this proposal won’t fix problems with elections, and it’s exactly the sort of political nonsense that demonstrates that Congress is broken. Do we need more accountability and transparency in our campaigns? Absolutely. But this isn’t the way to go about it. Rather than spending valuable time considering this partisan ploy, Congress should be focused on fixing our economy and getting more Americans back to work.” BACKGROUNDH.R. 5175 was a hurried effort, written by Speaker Pelosi and political campaign committee chairmen to respond to the Citizens United v. FEC Supreme Court decision. The bill creates new hurdles meant to silence critics before this year’s elections and includes disturbing carve-outs and exceptions for special interest groups. Since its introduction, 456 U.S. organizations have contacted Congress expressing their strong objections. Among the bill’s critics: 45 nonprofit organizations including the Sierra Club, the National Resources Defense Council, and the League of Conservation Voters, who are quoted in a June 17, 2010 Roll Call article as saying: “It is inappropriate and inequitable to create a two-tiered system of campaign finance laws and First Amendment protections…”. Troubling provisions of H.R. 5175 include: A ban on political speech by government contractors and TARP recipients but not unions with collective bargaining agreements with the government or unions who receive dues from government payroll deductions; reporting requirements – unlikely to affect unions – that would have high compliance costs and disproportionate effects on small business; and a reckless end-run around the FEC that would implement the law in 30 days rather than waiting for the commission to issue instructions so individuals can ensure compliance with the law. # # #
06.23.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Rep. Jim Matheson (UT-02) today introduced H.R. 5576, legislation that would provide construction workers, contractors, engineers and architects with qualified immunity when they respond to a declared disaster or emergency. “In the wake of disasters – including Hurricane Katrina and the attacks of 9/11, we saw heart-rending images of suffering that will stay in our minds and hearts forever,” Reichert said. “At those times, construction workers stepped in to voluntarily provide vital services to people affected by crisis. The expertise, equipment, and knowledge they bring to these situations are critically important. These Good Samaritans who respond quickly and give of their time and resources to help our country and their fellow citizens are providing important support for rescue, recovery, and clean-up efforts. “When those people step forward and want to help, and at a time when their expertise is so desperately needed, construction workers, contractors, architects and engineers shouldn’t have to hesitate to step in out of a fear of lawsuits. Our country must be able to stand united in times of crisis, and this bill will allow those who want to help their neighbors in need the ability to do just that.” “Construction companies are doing the right thing by stepping up immediately to offer help,” said Rep. Matheson. “The fear of lawsuits should not hinder that mindset. This bill eases that concern during the time period when every minute counts.” Specifically, H.R. 5576 would grant construction companies, their employees, architects and engineers immunity from liability for negligence – but would not cover gross negligence or willful misconduct– when providing emergency construction assistance on a voluntary basis in response to a declared emergency or disaster, in good faith, and without expectation of compensation. Furthermore, those protected under this bill would be providing such assistance at the direction of a public official. # # #
06.23.2010	"I just returned from Afghanistan, where I met with General McChrystal and his command staff and was able to see firsthand the progress that’s being made there. I thank Gen. McChrystal for his service to our country and the cause of freedom, and I wish him well. He follows in the proud tradition of other generals who have led our troops through past conflicts, and we are fortunate to have had such leaders throughout history. While there is no doubt the remarks by Gen. McChrystal and his staff were inappropriate, the events of the past few days are between the President and the General. I support the right and necessity in our democracy that it must be the Commander in Chief who makes this decision. I trust that he has made it with the safety of our troops and the success of the mission as his criteria. I have had the opportunity to meet with General Petraeus, and I appreciate his willingness to serve as commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan. He is a leader of the highest caliber and has my full support. It is now time to move past this incident and refocus on the big picture. We are at a pivotal point in Afghanistan: we must fight and win this war so our troops can come home and the Afghan people can live in peace." # # #
06.17.2010	“The idea that somehow Congress can tax and spend this country into economic recovery or stability makes no sense, and repeating past mistakes by enacting what basically boils down to yet another government bank bailout would be reckless,” Reichert said. “There is a much better way to address the problem that small businesses face trying to access the credit they need to survive and grow, and it starts with encouraging investment. That’s why I’m leading the fight to prevent a capital gains rate increase that will stifle investment, and it’s why I recently voted to prevent the carried interest tax hike that would hurt our entrepreneurs and investments in small businesses and new innovations. “Another approach that Congress could take to help give businesses the funds they need is to support a bipartisan bill I coauthored with Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). This bill (HR 2910) would modernize outdated tax rules that block millions of small businesses like the 93,000 S corporations in Washington State from attracting job-creating investments. Our small businesses and our citizens don’t need another bank bailout – they need common sense solutions. They don’t need another government bailout program – they need a tax code that creates incentives to take risks to create new businesses and new jobs. I’ll continue fighting for proposals that deliver the recovery our country needs.” # # #
06.08.2010	Today, Senators Maria Cantwell and Senator Patty Murray, and Congressmen Adam Smith, Dave Reichert, Jay Inslee, and Jim McDermott urged the Army Corps of Engineers to overcome roadblocks to certifying levees across Washington. Conflicting federal laws and regulations could prevent federal accreditation of several modern, functioning levees in Washington, leaving entire communities vulnerable to increased flood insurance premiums and at risk of flooding when new levees with vegetation can’t be built because they are ineligible for Corps funding. In a letter to Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Corps’ senior civilian official, the lawmakers urged immediate action to resolve conflicting guidelines among federal agencies. At issue is a forthcoming rule change under which the Army Corps would no longer allow vegetation on levees. In Washington state, that prohibition could have serious consequences for communities that must comply with Endangered Species Act protections for certain fish species. Levee construction, certification and accreditation is a complex process that involves local authorities, the Army Corps, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the National Marine Fisheries Service, among others. “It is critical that a roundtable occur without delay to address the conflicting standards and regulations in order to ensure that the levee operators can perform appropriate levee maintenance,” the members of the delegation wrote in the letter. “Municipalities in several river basins across Washington state, including the Green River Valley, are caught in the middle of conflicting guidance from the many federal agencies that have policies regarding levee regulation. This confusion may leave communities exposed to legal action or unnecessarily vulnerable to flooding. Without collaboration between all stakeholders involved, including all relevant federal agencies, communities in Washington state will continue to face difficulties getting levees certified and accredited.”At least three modern levees in the Green River Valley lack certification or are in danger of losing it because of conflicting construction and accreditation regulations among the federal agencies involved. Three species of salmon and trout which reside in the Green River are listed as ‘threatened’ under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). As a result, levee operators in the impacted Washington river basins must comply with the ESA. In most cases, that means vegetation that provides shade to cool the water temperature must be planted on a levee. As of next September, when the new Corps policy banning vegetation on levees takes effect, the ESA and Army Corps policies on levees could be in conflict. FEMA accreditation of levees is required before credit for the levee can be noted on flood maps. Because FEMA bases its certification on Army Corps standards, Washington state levees that continue to have shade trees may be decertified. The lack of federal certification, and consequently the lack of FEMA accreditation, may result in most of the valley becoming mapped as flood hazard area, which has detrimental impacts on local investment and economic development. # # #
06.07.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today released the following statement in support of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act (H.R. 5116), legislation that will strengthen U.S. scientific and economic leadership, support businesses, and create jobs both now and well into the future. “In the Northwest, ideas become jobs,” Reichert said. “I’m proud to represent a district – and a region – where innovation fuels our economic engine. I believe in the creativity, the imagination, and the intelligence of my fellow Americans to develop the technologies of the future that will ensure we lead the global economy. Especially in these times, as our kids are at risk of falling behind students in other countries, Congress must make the needed investments in math and science education, research, and development so that the best ideas created in research labs and companies across this country are turned into jobs. “That’s why I’m proud to stand today with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the University of Washington, and local employers like Boeing and Microsoft, who all support this bill,” Reichert continued. “Not only does this proposal support funding for key programs, but it also makes sure we’re doing everything possible to give our innovators the resources they need to succeed in today’s competitive, global economy. This bill is a bridge that can turn ideas into reality and innovations into new jobs. ” BACKGROUND Reichert today voted in favor of H.R. 5116, the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, which will renew the commitment to strengthen our nation’s global economic competitiveness by strengthening and expanding federal research and innovation programs and improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education in our secondary schools and universities. The bill reauthorizes R&D activities and programs through the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. In addition, H.R. 5116 seeks to better prepare our workforce for the challenges of the 21st century economy by increasing coordination among existing federal STEM education programs, improving STEM teaching and learning in higher education, and providing for STEM education research. ###
06.02.2010	“I continue to support the growth of the Internet as an open, non-discriminatory platform and I do not believe in blocking, degrading or impairing consumer access to the Internet and any lawful content. While I supported Mr. Markey’s amendment to the COPE Act in 2006 because it would have given the FCC explicit legislative authority to enforce network neutrality, I cannot support an FCC power grab that is based on shaky legal grounds and appears to be an attempted end-run around the DC Circuit’s recent ruling in Comcast vs. FCC. “FCC Chairman Genachowski’s proposal is to reverse a decade of bipartisan FCC precedent – which has been upheld by the Supreme Court – and reclassify broadband as an old-fashioned, monopoly-era phone service. He then proposes to regulate broadband under the antiquated common carrier provisions in Title II of the Communications Act. These provisions were designed for a different era, and are far too cumbersome an instrument to use if we want the Internet to remain the dynamic economic and social engine that it is. “Those who are concerned about this issue would do well to consider that the Internet has flourished precisely because we have chosen not to regulate broadband with a heavy hand. In fact, that policy decision has produced nearly 200 million broadband subscribers in the last decade. While Chairman Genachowski has said he would use a “light regulatory touch” and apply only some of the Title II provisions, the provisions he said he would apply do not appear “light” in nature. They may authorize micromanagement of broadband service, including the rates, terms, and conditions under which it is offered. It is also important to evaluate what would prevent him, or a subsequent FCC chairman, from imposing even stricter regulatory requirements. “It’s also important to note that another well-recognized supporter of network neutrality, Democratic Chairman Emeritus of the House Energy and Commerce Committee John Dingell has voiced concern over reclassification of broadband under Title II. I share Congressman Dingell’s concerns, and believe an issue this important should be decided in Congress by duly-elected representatives of the people, not by an appointed head of a regulatory agency. “In short, there is a right way and a wrong way to protect an open Internet – the FCC’s announced plan is the wrong way forward.” # # #
05.31.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day: "This weekend gives us all a special time to remember and honor the brave men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our liberty. I'm grateful for and honored by the opportunity these past few days to visit with our men and women in uniform who are so bravely serving the cause of freedom. I also want to make special note of the individuals who are serving from Washington state -- you make us all very proud. "As some of us spend this weekend with our families and loved ones, let us not forget what this time is truly about: paying special tribute to our veterans and their families who have sacrificed so much to protect and preserve our safety and security. It’s my sincere hope that every American remembers, not just this weekend but every single day, that we are given the precious gift of freedom because of the dedication and courage of those who serve and have served. On this Memorial Day, let us show our true gratitude to members of our Armed Forces and their families." Over the Memorial Day weekend, Reichert traveled to visit with troops serving in the Middle East. He will return to Washington state midweek. ###
05.28.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today released the following statement regarding H.R. 4213, a proposal that would implement massive, permanent tax increases, harming the ability of businesses to create jobs and compete, reducing benefits for retirees, and crippling development of promising innovations in health care: “I wish I could have supported this bill, because there were important provisions in it that Americans need – provisions I’ve authored and fought for – including an incentive for energy efficient home construction and a key tax deduction to help our teachers who so often pay out of their pockets for classroom supplies,” Reichert said. “Congress also should’ve been able to deliver an extension of the state sales tax deduction, the R&D tax credit, and disaster recovery expensing and incentives. But with unemployment at 9.9 percent and our economy continuing to struggle, we simply cannot afford the massive tax increases on small businesses in this bill, especially the taxes on investments by American job creators. “It makes absolutely no sense for Congress to talk about tax relief and job creation, then turn around and approve legislation that unfairly harms investment and American businesses,” Reichert continued. “Entrepreneurs and investors who risk their money – especially in attempts to create new businesses and new jobs – should be encouraged, not punished. America needs a tax code that creates incentives to take risks. Private equity firms and venture capitalists have been major drivers of our nation’s economic growth, and taxing them would not only hurt investments in start-up companies, but it would also hurt their ability to compete in a global economy. “What’s more, this proposal is particularly bad for Washington State’s workers and economy. Many pension funds, real estate trusts, and university endowments would be hurt by the tax increases in this bill. Washington is the second-largest state investor in private equity funds in the country, and this tax could seriously hurt returns from state pension funds for Washington’s 440,000 retired state and local government employees. As if that weren’t bad enough, this tax could also hurt investments in the life sciences companies that develop cancer fighting drugs, heart disease treatments, and tools for managing diabetes. These small companies drive the promising research and innovation that can improve the health and wellness of millions of Americans. “In short, I can’t in good conscience support this bill because it would do more harm than good. Americans are tired of business-as-usual in Congress, and I’m here to continue fighting for our citizens’ best interests.” # # #
05.28.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the proposed Congressional repeal of the current “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy implemented by President Bill Clinton in 1993: “On February 2, 2010, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Michael Mullen, informed Congress that they ordered a comprehensive review of this policy by the Department of Defense to determine if and how a full repeal would be implemented to minimize any impact on our men and women currently serving overseas and in harm’s way. This review will specifically look into the potential affects that the proposed policy change could have on recruitment, retention, and readiness of our armed forces. In addition, our service members will be given the opportunity to have their voices heard as part of this review. “During consideration of the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5136), Congressman Patrick Murphy (D-PA) offered an amendment that would repeal the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. I voted against this amendment, which passed by a vote of 234-194. Congress should honor our military leaders’ specific request to complete the current review that is due in December. In fact, members on both sides of the aisle, including the House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO), believe that we should respect our generals and their request to complete this process before considering policy changes. “Let me be clear: I am not suggesting homosexuals should not be able to serve openly in the military. One of the greatest duties of this Congress is to protect the freedoms and liberties of all Americans. I hope we can all agree that it is unjust to deny people the right to pursue the American Dream and realize success and opportunity in the workplace. That’s why I’ve supported legislation such as the Employment Non-Discrimination Act. However, I believe policy decisions affecting the military must reflect the input, perspectives, and judgment of the generals in command, and a decision on this issue must be entrusted to them. We must continue to support the men and women who are risking their lives each and every day and ensure that they have the best training and equipment available to carry out their duties. “Our freedom is preserved because we have men and women willing to pay the price, bear the burden, and meet the demands of keeping our country safe. Every American owes a debt of gratitude to the brave men and women who honorably serve – and have served - in our nation’s Armed Forces.” Background President Bill Clinton implemented the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 1993 as a way to remove the ban on homosexuals serving in the military. The policy prohibited openly homosexual individuals from serving; however, it also prohibited the Department of Defense from asking soldiers and recruits about their sexual orientation. Since then, this has been the current practice in all branches of our nation’s armed forces. Opponents of this policy have sought to repeal “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” and replace it with a policy of non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
05.18.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County, Washington, today applauded House passage of Katie’s Law, (H.R. 4614), a bipartisan bill he cosponsored with colleagues Harry Teague (NM-02) and Adam Schiff (CA-29) that encourages states to implement minimum DNA testing provisions for felony arrestees, and to match that DNA to existing profiles in the national database. View Reichert’s floor statement in support of Katie’s Law here. “Today we’ve taken an important step to protect innocent people across this country,” Reichert said. “The abuse of another human being and the taking of another human life are unthinkable tragedies. DNA science – its collection and analysis – is vital to the criminal investigation process, and I’m thankful for my colleagues’ support today. This bill provides a critical resource that will aid our law enforcement officials in investigating and prosecuting crimes, protecting the innocent, and preventing the loss of life and violent crimes that tragically impacts families’ lives.” The bill is named for Katie Sepich, from Carlsbad, New Mexico, who was 22 years old when she was brutally raped and murdered. DNA under Katie’s fingernails helped police develop a DNA profile for her killer, which was included in the national DNA database. In 2006, the New Mexico DNA database matched the unknown DNA profile to Gabriel Avilla, who had been arrested for several other crimes – including a felony burglary in November 2003. Katie’s Law was not enacted in New Mexico until January of 2007. Had New Mexico required a DNA sample for Avilla’s felony arrest in November 2003, investigators might have solved Katie’s murder sooner, catching Avilla so he could not roam the streets for three years. Reichert’s support for the bill stems from his distinguished 33-year career in law enforcement and his role as lead investigator at the inception of The Green River Task Force, which solved the largest serial murder case in U.S. history. He has seen firsthand the importance of DNA science: samples collected from victims in the Green River case in 1982 were responsible for the identification and arrest of a single suspect 19 years later on four counts of Murder, which ultimately resulted in his guilty plea in the murders of 48 women. BACKGROUND Katie’s Law is designed to encourage states to adopt more effective uses of DNA technology. States that meet the minimum standards set by the bill—collecting DNA samples from those arrested for, indicted for, or charged with certain violent felonies, and comparing identification profiles from these samples with profiles in the national DNA database—are entitled to a five-percent increase in funds received through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne-JAG). States that meet enhanced standards by, in addition, submitting DNA profiles to the federal Convicted Offender DNA Index System (CODIS) receive a ten-percent increase in Byrne-JAG funds. The legislation is supported by the following organizations: the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA), the National District Attorney’s Association (NDAA), the Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network (RAINN), Debbie Smith’s H-E-A-R-T Inc, and the Surviving Parents Coalition (SPC). Each day innocent people in American become victims of violent crimes, many of which are committed by repeat offenders. DNA testing requirements can help prevent crime and protect the innocent. According to DNA Saves: Since 1974, more than 90 percent of all state prisoners have been repeat offenders; 70 percent of America’s crime is committed by 6 percent of its criminals; With DNA arrestee testing on the books since 2003, Virginia has received over 5,000 hits on their database, with nearly 500 of these matches directly attributable to arrestees; 1 out of every 6 American women have been the victims of an attempted or completed rape; and, To date, post-conviction DNA testing has led to the exoneration of more than 200 wrongfully convicted individuals in the United States, and many of these individuals were not fully exonerated until after a DNA match was made on the database to another offender. # # #
05.18.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the President’s Export Council (PEC), today urged export promotion and passage of pending free trade agreements to stimulate job creation across the country. “As we continue to see record unemployment numbers, we must remember that trade is critical to economic growth and creating American jobs,” Reichert said. “The American people are seeking proven, common-sense solutions for economic recovery that will stabilize our workforce, and trade is a pillar of recovery our country can’t afford to ignore. Opening new markets to trade is a proven stimulus and job creator that comes without a several hundred billion dollar bill for taxpayers. What’s more, the failure to open those markets is costing America jobs while other nations move ahead. We can’t afford to be left behind. The President has committed to doubling exports in five years, and Ambassador Kirk has reaffirmed that commitment. I’m proud to be a part of the effort to help them get that accomplished. “Washington state has always been a leader in bringing American goods and services to the global markets that demand them,” Reichert continued. “As an international hub for global companies like Microsoft, Boeing, and Starbucks, Washington business leaders understand the importance of expanding their customer base. It’s simple – if you want to grow your business, you need to make your product available to more customers – our companies get that. When 95 percent of America’s customers live outside our borders, it’s just common sense to seek new markets to reach them. Congress must pass the pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama to help get Americans back to work.”According to the Emergency Committee for American Trade, exports accounted for nearly 30 percent of Washington State’s economic growth over the last 10 years, and contributed to half of the new jobs created over the last 30 years.80 percent of the world’s purchasing power is outside the United States. While America remains the wealthiest nation with one of the highest levels of per capita GDP, most of the world’s purchasing power is beyond U.S. borders.Nearly 87 percent of world economic growth over the next 5 years will take place outside of the United States. According to the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook (2009), emerging markets such as China and India are expected to grow substantially in the near future. The need to access foreign markets is critical now, but it will be imperative in the years to come.BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, announced this week he has accepted an appointment as one of only two Republican House members selected to serve on the President’s Export Council. He has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
05.17.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and a member of the Trade Working Group, today announced he has accepted an appointment to the President’s Export Council (PEC), the nation’s principle advisory committee on international trade, where he will continue his vocal advocacy for a robust trade agenda and passage of pending free trade agreements. “I’m honored to accept this appointment to the President’s Export Council – particularly given the current state of our economy and the critical role free trade can play in getting us back on firm footing,�? Reichert said. “Free trade can create jobs, and a robust trade agenda is absolutely vital to the well-being and future growth of our economy. I look forward to serving in this role, and continuing my work to open new trade markets, support negotiations of new trade agreements, and fight for implementing the deals we’ve already reached with Korea, Colombia, and Panama.�? Republican Leader John Boehner recognized Reichert’s advocacy in submitting his name for this role: “Congressman Reichert has been a tireless and vocal advocate for opening new markets and approving pending free trade agreements – especially with Korea – that are critical to creating American jobs. Coming from a state where one in every three jobs is connected to trade, Congressman Reichert’s understanding of this issue will undoubtedly be of remarkable value. The President’s Export Council will be well-served by having Congressman Reichert’s credible presence at the table, speaking to the need for America to continue to engage new markets and to define and lead in the global economy.�? Reichert is one of only two Republicans selected – and one of only five House members total – to serve on the Council. The PEC is the principal national advisory committee on international trade. It advises the president on government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance; promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and resolving trade-related challenges among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government sectors. President Nixon established the council in 1973. More information can be found on the council’s Web site.BACKGROUND Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee, the Trade subcommittee, and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. Reichert was recently honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
05.14.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County whose public service includes a distinguished 33-year career in law enforcement, today announced he has accepted an appointment as Vice-Chairman of the congressional National Security Solutions Group which will take the lead in advocating and developing better solutions to America’s national security challenges. “It has always been my personal mission to protect and preserve the safety of my fellow Americans, so I am honored to accept the invitation to serve as a part of this group,” Reichert said. “We live in uncertain times, and it is absolutely critical that we do everything necessary to keep our nation secure. That means everything from supporting our military men and women to providing every resource possible to our intelligence and law enforcement communities. I look forward to working closely with Chairman King and other distinguished members of this group to find the solutions and provide the tools that will keep our citizens and our country safe and secure.” National Security Solutions Group Chairman Rep. Peter King (NY-03) recognized that Reichert’s background uniquely qualifies him for this role and welcomed him as vice-chair: “Dave Reichert is an excellent addition to the National Security Solutions Group, and I am glad he has agreed to serve as vice-chairman of the group. As a highly effective former sheriff and former subcommittee chairman on the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Reichert is a respected and knowledgeable voice on both homeland national security issues in Congress and across the country.” Members of the GOP National Security Solutions Group include: Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Ranking Member, Committee on Homeland Security Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Ranking Member, Committee on Armed Services Rep. Peter Hoekstra (R-MI), Ranking Member, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Committee Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), Ranking Member, Appropriations Committee Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA) Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) Rep. Edward Royce (R-CA) Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) # # #
05.14.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, requested a moment of silence in the U.S. House of Representatives to honor fallen law enforcement officers: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker: If I could have everyone’s solemn attention please. “As many of you know, this week is law enforcement memorial week. It’s a time for us to, as I said earlier in the year when we lost four police officers in one shooting in Washington state, it’s a time when all of us stop and recognize and realize what our law enforcement family does for us, each and every day. Those Capitol Hill police officers who are around us here in this building, outside these doors … the Washington, DC police officers who protect us to and from our place of work, and to our homes and other places that we travel. We have a safe community as a result of men and women wanting to put themselves in harm’s way – and sometimes sacrificing their lives. “I was one of those for 33 years; I’m proud to say that. As the Sheriff, as a deputy in 1972, and finally as the Sheriff before coming here to Congress. And I’m proud to be a part of the family – the law enforcement family. We are brothers and sisters. And being a police officer, as my friend the Sheriff from Indiana – Sheriff Ellsworth – knows, it transcends everything. The cop world doesn’t mean being Democrat or Republican. Being a cop doesn’t mean I’m a Catholic, I’m a Lutheran, I’m a Mormon. It doesn’t mean any of those things. It means we are men and women, together as a family and a team, putting our lives on the line for people in this nation every day. In this year, 126 police officers were killed in the line of duty, and in Washington state alone we lost 7. So I would join with my friend, Sheriff Ellsworth – the two Sheriffs in the house – in a moment of silence, and I would yield time to Sheriff Ellsworth.” BACKGROUNDPolice Week was started in 1962 by President John F. Kennedy. He designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the preceding week to be “Police Week.” During this time, police officers from all over the nation come together in Washington, D.C., to pay tribute to their fellow officers who gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 3,000 people have been remembered over the past 22 years. This year, 7 officers from Washington state will be honored during the week: Officer Timothy Q. Brenton – Seattle Police Department Deputy Stephen M. Gallaher, Jr. – Lewis County Sheriff’s Office Officer Tina G. Griswold – Lakewood Police Department Deputy Walter K. Mundell – Pierce County Sheriff’s Office Officer Ronald W. Owens II – Lakewood Police Department Sergeant Mark J. Renninger – Lakewood Police Department Officer Gregory J. Richards – Lakewood Police Department # # #
05.12.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County who served 33 years in law enforcement, today released the following statement regarding Police Week: "Being a cop means being part of a family," Reichert said. "The men and women that stand beside you in the field are your brothers and sisters. And like a family, when we tragically lose one of our own we are all deeply affected. This week allows us to come together as a family and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect the safety and sanctity of our communities. Please keep the immediate family members as well as the entire extended law enforcement family in your thoughts and prayers during this week of reflection and remembrance." In 2009 alone, 7 law enforcement officers from Washington state were killed in the line of duty, including 4 Lakewood Police Department officers who were shot in cold blood as they prepared for work the morning of November 29, 2009. The Lakewood tragedy exposed that information-sharing and best practices among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and criminal justice systems need to be improved. To address this issue, Reichert joined Reps. Jay Inslee and Adam Smith to introduce the bipartisan Department of Justice Global Advisory Committee Authorization Act (H.R. 4970) which will enhance information-sharing and will give law enforcement officers better tools to keep themselves and our communities safe. H.R. 4970 also expresses Congress’ support for the Global Advisory Committee (GAC), which advises the Attorney General on issues related to interoperability and sharing information. The bill enables the Attorney General to provide funding, technical assistance, and support to the GAC and encourages adoption of its recommendations by state and local jurisdictions throughout the U.S. BACKGROUND Police Week was started in 1962 by President John F. Kennedy. He designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the preceding week to be "Police Week." During this time, police officers from all over the nation come together in Washington, D.C., to pay tribute to their fellow officer who gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 3,000 people have been remembered over the past 22 years. This year, seven officers from Washington state will be honored during the week: Officer Timothy Q. Brenton - Seattle Police Department Deputy Stephen M. Gallagher, Jr. - Lewis County Sheriff's Office Officer Tina G. Griswold - Lakewood Police Department Deputy Walter K. Mundell - Pierce County Sheriff's Office Officer Ronald W. Owens II - Lakewood Police Department Sergeant Mark J. Renninger - Lakewood Police Department Officer Gregory J. Richards - Lakewood Police Department
05.07.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement regarding Mother’s Day: “Each year we dedicate one day to the people who take care of us during the other 364 days,” Reichert said. “Day in and day out, mothers tirelessly dedicate themselves at work and home, and they’re the tie that binds our families together. They really are vacation-less workers – and they’re our unsung heroes. Our mothers’ selfless generosity is so prominent and consistent in our lives that we sometimes forget to show our appreciation. Today is a perfect opportunity to show them just how much they mean to us. “As Abraham Lincoln said: ‘All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to my angel Mother.’ So, thank you, mothers, for all you do to shape our nation, our communities, and our families in ways both big and small.” BACKGROUND Reichert has a long and distinguished record of advocacy on behalf of working mothers. He was recognized in 2008 by Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families as the “Best of Congress” for improving the American quality of life through family-friendly work policies, supporting paycheck fairness, and allowing working mothers to balance their commitments both at home and in their professional endeavors. After considering his voting record, sponsored/cosponsored legislation, efforts to promote legislation that supports working families, and his emergence as a leading advocate against domestic violence, Reichert was selected to appear in a feature story in Working Mother Magazine. # # #
05.06.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today met with Washington state and local leaders and federal agency representatives to discuss funding and safety issues related to ongoing repairs at the Howard Hanson Dam. Reichert released this statement following the meeting: “I’m pleased that our state and local representatives traveled here for this important meeting, and that together we’re all working hard to protect the people, businesses, and infrastructure of the Green River Valley,” Reichert said. “I grew up in the valley – I remember the last flood. This is a critical issue for our state because it concerns the safety of our citizens and the health of our local and state economy. I anticipate the same level of participation and collaboration as we address not only the funding issues and the short- and long-term fixes for the dam, but also broader issues including the safety and integrity of the levee system. I also fully expect to see this same spirit of cooperation among the federal agencies that manage the dam and the levee system so that all levels of government are working for the good of the people.” Today’s meeting included discussion of funding the short- and long-term fixes for the dam, levee certification issues, and floodplain maps and the impact on economic development. Representatives from FEMA, Army Corps of Engineers, the Washington Governor’s office, the King County Executive’s office, the congressional delegation, and city mayors were among those in attendance. BACKGROUND Reichert has worked tirelessly to protect the safety of the people and the property throughout the Green River Valley. Together with members of the Washington state delegation, he has called for involved agencies to maintain focus on both permanent and interim fixes for the dam, as well as calling for the most advanced radar systems, precipitation gauges, and technologically advanced infrastructure possible to mitigate flood events. For more than 40 years, the Howard Hanson Dam – a major flood protection facility operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers – and the Green River levees in King County, Washington, have provided effective flood control and protection. Following record rainfall in January 2009, damage to an abutment adjacent to the Dam diminished the maximum water capacity that can be safely held by the Dam. As the Army Corps of Engineers works to assess and repair the damage, cities located within the Green River Valley were notified of a scenario that may require the intentional release of more water than usual during extreme rain events. This has the potential to result in catastrophic flooding that could affect tens of thousands of individuals. King County officials are preparing plans to evacuate up to 5,000 people; some estimates show the potential for lost economic output of $46 million per day and up to $2 billion in property damage. # # #
05.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement in honor of teachers throughout Washington’s Eighth district, Washington state, and the nation: “It’s my pleasure today to honor our teachers for their tireless service and their dedication to our children,” Reichert said. “Our teachers truly embody what it means to have the heart of a servant, and Teacher Appreciation Day is the perfect opportunity to express our gratitude for all they do. Teachers accept a serious responsibility – educating our children and helping them develop into successful citizens so they can become the leaders of tomorrow, and I encourage our students, parents, and people throughout our communities to take a moment to recognize these public servants for the significant work they do to make our citizens and our country successful.” “It’s also important that Congress demonstrate its ongoing and enduring commitment to our teachers,” Reichert continued. “That means expanding needed tax relief to help them with things like purchasing class supplies, and it means supporting and encouraging their continuing education pursuits. Our teachers stand with us, and Congress must stand with them.” BACKGROUND Washington’s Eighth congressional district currently has the sixth-highest number of new National Board Certified Teachers of any congressional district in the country, and Washington state has the fifth-highest number of National Board Certified Teachers in the nation. Reichert is a vocal supporter of teachers and the vital role they play in educating our children and shaping their futures. This Congress, Reichert partnered with Rep. John Tanner (TN-08) to introduce H.R. 3758, the Teacher Tax Relief Act, a proposal that would both increase and make permanent the maximum tax deduction available for teachers purchasing classroom supplies – while expanding the deduction to include expenses associated with qualified professional development pursuits. Specifically the legislation would amend the Internal Revenue Code to increase and make permanent the maximum deduction allowed from $250 to $500 and expanding it to include qualified professional development expenses. The National Education Association supports this legislation and has applauded Reichert for his advocacy on this front. The National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year, educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752. Additionally, a National Education Association report, Status of the American Public School Teacher 2000-2001, revealed that teachers spent an average of $443 per year on classroom supplies. Reichert authored and championed this proposal because he understands teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. # # #
05.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) has announced that Colton Running, a senior at Tahoma Senior High School, has won the 2010 Congressional Art Competition for Washington’s Eighth Congressional District with a work titled “Burning.” Running was selected last night at a reception hosted by Reichert at the Bellevue Arts Museum. “This year we had so many terrific entries, and I was proud to announce that Colton has received the 2010 honor,” Reichert said. “Colton’s artwork truly exemplifies this year’s theme of ‘An Artistic Discovery.’ Every year the bright and talented young students of the Eighth District outdo themselves with the extraordinary artwork they create. This highlights just how important it is that we continue to foster creativity and promote arts education for our children. The ability to think abstractly and remain dedicated to future goals are skills that will serve all these students well in the future. I’m happy to congratulate Colton, along with each and every one of the participants who made this year’s competition one of the best we’ve seen so far. I also applaud the parents, teachers, and friends who support these young artists and their work.” Running’s work will be unveiled in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol at the official National Reception on June 17. Two students received honorable mention at the reception: Stephanie Anderson from Newport High School for “Internment” and Kendra Hobbs from Tahoma Senior High School for “Portrait of a Boy.” Background Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has provided high school students throughout the nation the opportunity to demonstrate their artistic abilities and compete for the chance to display their work in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol Building for an entire year. Over 650,000 students have participated since the competition’s inception, submitting remarkably unique and inspiring amateur artwork. Members of the U.S. House of Representatives are given the opportunity to honor these students in their local communities and bring national attention to their gifted constituents. Reichert has been proud to participate in this event since taking office, and encourages the public to view all the entries at the Bellevue Arts Museum through June 6. Reichert is a long-time supporter of a well-rounded curriculum that includes emphasis in arts education. He is also a member of the Congressional Art Caucus and is a strong supporter of Arts Education Month in Washington State. # # #
05.03.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and a member of the Trade Working Group, today met with U.S. Trade Ambassador Ron Kirk and state leaders to discuss the importance of trade to Washington State. “Free trade is vital to the economic well-being of Washington state, so I appreciate that Ambassador Kirk traveled here today to discuss the role free trade can play as a catalyst for our economic recovery and future growth,” Reichert said. “The dialogue is a step in the right direction, though creating jobs through trade involves more than the Administration’s stated commitment to export promotion and trade enforcement. It also requires opening new markets, negotiating new trade agreements, and implementing the deals that have already been reached with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Free trade can create jobs, and failing to act on these pending FTAs while competitors in Europe and Asia move ahead could mean we lose jobs. Free trade is an often-overlooked stimulus that the Administration cannot afford to ignore.” Reichert joined Kirk, Gov. Christine Gregoire, and Rep. Adam Smith at the Port of Seattle this morning in a roundtable discussion with Washington state business leaders to discuss trade-related issues. Background: The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has estimated that the United States could lose as many as 350,000 jobs should it fail to implement the pending trade agreement with Korea while the European Union and Asia move ahead with agreements of their own. Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
04.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) was recognized last night by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) for having one of the best websites in Congress. CMF analyzed all 620 congressional websites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees and official leadership sites. Reichert’s site, https://reichert.house.gov, was one of only 135 websites commended by CMF in its 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project. “I thank the Congressional Management Foundation for this award,” Reichert said. “We’re always working to improve our communication and interaction with our constituents, who are among some of the most tech-savvy individuals in the country. The Internet is an important tool that allows me and my staff to connect with people throughout our district to learn more about their cares, concerns, and ideas, so I appreciate this recognition of our efforts.” Congressional Management Foundation Executive Director Beverly Bell praised Reichert’s innovative website and outreach efforts: “One of the key reasons for the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those already excelling in online communications. Web sites like Rep. Reichert’s serve as a prime example that we hope other congressional offices will follow. His website shows that he understands how to meet the needs of his district online. The Congressional Management Foundation congratulates Rep. Reichert for having a Web site that is among the best on Capitol Hill, and we are pleased to present Rep. Reichert with the 111th Congress Bronze Mouse Award.” BACKGROUND The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Awards are part of CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union, which seeks to improve the quality of communication between Members and their constituents. The Project seeks to improve the quality of communication between Representatives and their constituents. It’s specifically concerned with how Members can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and promote greater participation in the legislative process. Websites were graded on how well they incorporate five core principles that CMF identified through extensive research as critical for effectiveness: knowing your audience, providing timely and targeted content that meets their needs, making the site easy to use, fostering interaction both on and offline, and adding value through innovation. The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project report, a full listing winners, and other data is available on CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union website at www.pmpu.org. # # #
04.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement recognizing Earth Day 2010: “As America observes Earth Day, Washington State can take special pride in the resources we care for and enjoy. Our state has a long tradition of preserving its natural resources, and together we continue working to preserve them for future generations. We all have a stake today in the world we’ll leave our children and grandchildren to enjoy. That’s why I’m the proud sponsor of legislation to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness area, and to designate the Middle Fork Snoqualmie and Pratt Rivers as wild and scenic – a proposal that has now passed the House of Representatives. I urge the Senate to join the House in passing this legislation to preserve these precious resources right here in Washington’s backyard.” # # #
04.22.2010	Ways and Means Republicans today sent a letter to UnitedHealth Group (United) inquiring as to its financial relationship with AARP in regard to the marketing of Medicare Medigap and Medicare Advantage policies. United-AARP insurance plans cover more Medicare beneficiaries than any other insurer, and in 2008 AARP received $652,701,000 from insurance companies with 63 percent ($411,201,630) coming from United. The letter was signed by Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Wally Herger (R-CA), and Reps. Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) and Dave Reichert (R-WA). In the letter, the Members requested details of the United-AARP financial relationship in the interest of taxpayers who fund the Medicare program and the millions of seniors who rely on Medicare Advantage and Medigap policies. While AARP has previously denied informal requests for documents on this topic, the Republicans noted that United has a long history of turning over contractual and proprietary information similar to what has been requested in order for Congress to fulfill oversight duties. REICHERT: “Seniors deserve a straight answer from United and AARP on their financial relationship. Is there a financial benefit to AARP as the government takes over health care in America? They owe an answer to seniors: those losing their benefits and those paying more in additional fees and taxes. There’s a lot at stake for America’s seniors and their future health care benefits. I urge United and AARP to be transparent and honest in this inquiry.” CAMP: “I urge United to comply with our Congressional investigation so we may conduct the necessary oversight to ensure taxpayers and seniors are being served well. There are hundreds of millions of dollars at stake and the well being of not only the Medicare program but the nation’s seniors who rely on it for medical care.” HERGER: “The special-interest deals that helped grease the passage of the recent health care legislation served as a reminder that we need far more transparency in Washington. Our goal here is simple - to take an honest look at the relationship between AARP and the health insurance industry and ensure that AARP is acting as an appropriate advocate for seniors.” BROWN-WAITE: “It is very apparent to me that AARP is more concerned about their bottom line than the well being of their membership. I represent more Medicare recipients than any Member of Congress—these questions need to be asked and it’s my responsibility to ask them.” ###
04.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement regarding the recognition of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week: “As a law enforcement officer of 33 years, protecting victims of crime and their rights is a mission close to my heart,” Reichert said. “In the King County Sheriff’s office, I saw unspeakable tragedies firsthand. I saw the consequences of crime and how it affects victims – sometimes for the rest of their lives. There are few things more painful than looking into the eyes of a victim, knowing that a criminal’s selfish, terrible deed has done irreparable damage to an innocent life. As a cop, you live with the hard truth that you can’t prevent every crime. But what we can all do is provide as much support and aid to victims as possible. We can help them receive justice and return some normalcy to their lives.” Background: National Crime Victims’ Rights Week has been promoting victims’ rights since 1981, and is observed this year April 18-24. Each April, the Office for Victims of Crime honors victims of crime and the agencies and people who advocate on their behalf. Congressman Reichert has always worked on behalf of victims’ rights, serving on numerous advisory boards including the King County Criminal Justice Council and the King County Domestic Violence Council. By bringing awareness and support to victims of crime, Reichert believes we can further support their basic rights: fairness, dignity, and respect. # # #
04.15.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today released the following statement regarding tax day: “As hard-working people across Washington State and the rest of the country finish the process of filing their tax returns, I urge Congress to reduce the tax burden for families and businesses,” Reichert said. “Today, with unemployment hovering near 10 percent and people struggling to get by, Congress must focus on solutions to grow our economy while preserving and creating jobs. That begins with preventing the massive tax hike that’s scheduled to take place at the end of the year if Congress fails to act. Using the tax code is a targeted approach Congress should take to provide deductions and incentives that will allow families to keep more of their hard-earned money, and businesses to create and preserve jobs. It’s a proven approach to stimulating our economy, and it’s the right thing to do. “Tax Day is a time when families have an opportunity to take stock of their personal finances and achieve the maximum return from Uncle Sam,” Reichert continued. “Like health care, I’m also concerned that there is another proposal for government takeover for all tax preparation, just sending taxpayers a bill for what they owe. Seeing the government struggle to keep its own fiscal house in order, I think taxpayers have little confidence that the government is somehow suddenly equipped to get involved in the personal finances of every American. The IRS doesn’t have the resources or the incentive to help taxpayers make the right financial decisions – especially given that its primary purpose is to maximize revenue collection. I’ll continue fighting this proposal so we can move forward in a bipartisan way.” BACKGROUND With the expiration of key tax cuts in late 2010 – coupled with the cost of the new health care overhaul law – individuals, families, and businesses are facing dramatic tax increases if Congress fails to act. Reichert has long been a champion of broad-based tax relief for individuals, families, and small business. He supports: • Making the current income tax rates permanent; • Making permanent the 15-percent capital gains rate, state sales tax deduction, marriage penalty relief, charitable giving deduction, and the child tax credit; • Permanently preserving the research and development tax credit; • Tax credits for renewable and alternative energy, home energy audits, and energy efficient retrofits and new construction; • Repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and the death tax; • Eliminating an unfair tax on health insurance premiums for the self-employed; and • Using the tax code to provide reimbursements and incentives for individuals who provide valuable services to our communities, including our teachers and emergency first responders. # # #
03.25.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert was admitted to George Washington University Hospital yesterday after feeling ill. Following an evaluation, doctors performed a procedure to address a chronic subdural hematoma that was likely the result of a minor head injury. The procedure was successful, and he is expected to make a full and complete recovery. The Congressman is resting comfortably and will be discharged in a few days – but doctors will not allow him to leave for any votes. Congressman Reichert’s office has contacted leadership to advise them he is unable to vote, and that he will submit for the record a reiteration of his no vote on the health care bill. Upon discharge from the hospital, he will return home for the district work period and will resume his schedule in consultation with his doctors.
03.24.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after the reported final World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling that European company Airbus received subsidies in violation of WTO rules: “Today’s reported WTO ruling confirms what we have long believed – that Airbus received illegal launch aid in its efforts to compete with Boeing,” Reichert said. “Early on, when we first learned of the subsidy issue, I was proud to fight for a fair process – specifically regarding the KC-X aerial refueling tanker. I have always believed that if given a level playing field, Boeing’s workers would be competitive on a range of contracts, because Washington State’s aerospace workers are second to none. Their knowledge and skills are built upon three generations of engineers, manufacturers, and craftsman who are dedicated to producing the finest products in the world. Today’s decision is good news for Washington State, but also for America’s national security and our economy. I will continue to fight to see this ruling through and ensure that Boeing can compete in a free and fair marketplace.” # # #
03.21.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today rejected a health care overhaul that would cripple efforts to rejuvenate the economy in the middle of a recession. The legislation would implement a government-run health plan estimated to cost more than $1 trillion, slash Medicare benefits by $523.5 billion, force crushing tax hikes of $569 billion on families and job creators, and take away their current health plans. The measure passed this evening. “I voted against this bill because the majority of Americans have spoken loud and clear: they don't want this bill,” Reichert said. “The legislation Congress voted on today is still a government takeover of healthcare. It still hurts our seniors and makes devastating cuts to Medicare. It still taxes medical devices including pacemakers, prosthetics and wheelchairs. And the taxes it imposes will stifle investment and cause millions of employers to cut wages and lay off their workers. In the middle of a recession, that is exactly the wrong thing to do. “The American people were promised ‘If you like it, you can keep it.’ I’m sorry to say, that promise was broken here today. The American people will bear the brunt of these slashed benefits, and many of them will be put out of work by the half-a-trillion dollar tax hike in this bill. Yes, we do need to reform and strengthen our health care system, but this should be done without saddling Americans with massive tax hikes in the middle of a recession, and without cutting $500 billion in seniors’ health care. This has been a flawed process from the very beginning because the American people have been left out. Congress must work together on real solutions that begin to bring down the cost of health care and bring it to those who need it most, but this is not the right way.” For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways & Means Committee debate on health care legislation, visit https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health.
03.18.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the passage of his Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 1769), by the U.S. House of Representatives. Reichert’s proposal passed the House with strong bipartisan support, and marked a significant step toward securing a 22,000-acre expansion of the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area to include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds, and the designation of both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “This is what happens when people work together,” Reichert said. “This is a good bill for Washington State, because it creates a place where people can go to hike, bike, and enjoy other recreational activities. And it’s wonderful that we’ll leave such a beautiful area for our kids to enjoy. When I was the Sheriff, this was an area where stolen cars and meth labs existed – it was a garbage dump. Now we’ve cleaned it up and it’s a beautiful and pristine area. That’s something we can all be proud of. “Today is a good day for the people of Washington, but there’s more work to be done,” Reichert continued. “So today I urge the Senate to quickly consider Senator Murray’s companion legislation so we can protect these beautiful, wild areas for future generations.” “Today the House has passed new protections for the Alpine Lake wilderness area that will guarantee that this pristine environment is preserved as a legacy and natural resource for generations to come,” said Senator Patty Murray. “I commend Congressman Reichert for his work on this issue in the House. I was proud to sponsor this bill in the Senate, and I will continue working until this important legislation is signed into law.” BACKGROUND Reichert, with the support of state and local officials, other local leaders and constituents, introduced the original Alpine Lakes Wilderness protection measure in November 2007. Reichert worked carefully through extensive stakeholder inquiries involving recreation groups, conservationists, tribes, local lawmakers, nearby landowners and public agencies, to ensure that all concerned parties had a voice as legislation was crafted and introduced. At the beginning of the 111th Congress, Reichert re-introduced the bill, which was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee on Feb. 24 with strong bipartisan support. Senator Patty Murray has authored, introduced, and championed companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976, championed by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds, and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is also one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the U.S. and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the legislation include: • Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these lands also has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities that are easily accessible to wilderness enthusiasts. • Designation of the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. This permanently protects the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality, and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation also provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting – all of which are uncommon to find so close to a major urban center. # # #
03.17.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement today in response to the President’s establishment of an Export Promotion Cabinet and his appointment of Boeing CEO Jim McNerney as its Chair: “I’m pleased that the Administration is sharpening its focus on the role free trade can play as a catalyst for economic recovery with the establishment of this Export Promotion Cabinet,” said Reichert. “I’m encouraged that the Cabinet will be led by Boeing CEO Jim McNerney, because few companies understand as well as Boeing what opening new markets for U.S. exports means to creating good American jobs and remaining competitive in the global economy. I expect that the counsel of a job creator like Boeing will be an asset in advising the President to swiftly move forward on pending agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama and engagement in the Asia-Pacific region.” # # #
03.12.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a Member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today applauded the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) recognition of a comprehensive, bipartisan package of energy efficiency tax incentives he introduced this Congress. The Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act of 2009 (H.R. 4226) is designed to reduce energy costs for families and businesses, promote innovation and conservation, and create future energy jobs. “I thank USGBC for its recognition that the Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act is a collaborative, market-based, bipartisan approach to help families and businesses save on energy bills and become smarter energy consumers – while also creating American jobs,” Reichert said. “My legislation touches all aspects of energy-efficient building: constructing a new home, retrofitting an existing one, helping commercial properties conserve energy, cutting energy costs, and assisting consumers who’d like a home energy usage evaluation. The President has urged Congress to find ways to promote economic recovery, create jobs, and cut costs, and my bill will help meet those objectives.” “Green building saves energy, water and money,” said Roger Platt, Senior Vice President of Global Policy & Law, USGBC. “It is one of the most promising solutions to critical global issues …. Rep. Reichert’s bill will create jobs and pump money into our economy.” The USGBC "Top 10" List highlights bills introduced in Congress within the last year that would enable innovative financing for home owners and building owners to make efficiency improvements, and increase and extend incentives for improving schools and existing building stock. The organization recognizes the economic activity and jobs that come with these bills, and the ways they will encourage job growth and training in new fields of building energy management and retrofits. BACKGROUND The Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act (H.R. 4226) is composed of five key tax incentives for energy efficient building that expand on companion legislation introduced by Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM): 1) New Energy Efficient Home Tax Credit (45L): Provides a $5,000 tax credit for the construction of a new home that is 50 percent more energy efficient than 2003 standards. Since its creation in 2005, this credit has seen a three-fold increase in usage, but it is set to expire at the end of 2009. 2) Deduction for Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings (179D): Increases and extends a deduction for energy efficient upgrades to commercial buildings. 3) Residential Property Energy Credit (25C): Offers a credit to homeowners to offset the costs of energy efficient retrofits (including new heating and cooling systems, windows, and doors) to their property. 4) Home Energy Rating Credit (25E): Provides a $200 credit for the cost incurred for a home energy rating. 5) Home Performance Auditor Certification Credit (45R): Provides a $500 credit for training to be certified to perform home energy ratings.
03.11.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) has issued the following statement after opposing a measure masked as tax relief that would fail to create jobs: “I voted against this bill for two key reasons,” Reichert said. “First, this bill was promoted as a “jobs bill” – which you would think means, ‘it creates jobs.’ Yet I have not heard from one business owner who would be convinced to hire new workers if they received a $1,000 government subsidy. It doesn’t make any sense that they would hire someone for a $1000 subsidy when they don’t have the means to pay the rest of the salary and there’s no work available. That’s just common sense. Second, Congress had little time to review the bill, which was presented less than two hours before the House was asked to vote on it, which did not allow us to reach bipartisan consensus. Small businesses are the very lifeblood of our economy, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the future on a meaningful tax proposal that creates real demand for goods and services – and puts Americans back to work. # # #
03.11.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement: “I supported today’s earmark moratorium because I have long been a vocal proponent of such reform,” Reichert said. “In fact, in November, Politico described me as an ‘outspoken transparency and ethics advocate.’ Two years ago I led by example and declared a personal moratorium on earmarks. I did this because I wanted to push the leaders in both parties to recognize we needed to come together to create an earmark system that works and that the public can trust. In the absence of broader Congressional action, I then authored my own comprehensive, bipartisan reform bill (HR 3268) with my Washington State colleague, Adam Smith, to show how this system could be cleaned up. “To be clear: I support Member projects because I believe Congress – not unelected bureaucrats – has a Constitutional responsibility to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars and dictate where those federal dollars go,” Reichert continued. “And I also believe we need a federal spending process that is fair, open, and worthy of public trust. I was sent here to represent my constituents’ priority interests, and that does include infrastructure, education, and research investments, and I do believe our internal process last year worked and is a model of earmarking done right. While I would continue with that reformed process again, it is clear that the American people, by making their voices heard, have created an opportunity to work toward Congress-wide reform and create a system worthy of public trust – that doesn’t waste hard-earned taxpayer dollars. “My constituents have elected me to represent their priority interests, and one of those priorities is to clean up this unsustainable spending. It would be foolish to walk away from this opportunity to further reform the system – particularly when there is clearly momentum now among Democrats and Republicans to get it done.” # # #
03.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, has been honored with the 2010 Trade and Investment Leadership Award by the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) for leading the fight to open new markets to trade, ensuring America’s continued prosperity. “It’s truly an honor to accept this award, and I offer my sincere gratitude to ECAT for this recognition,” Reichert said. “Free trade is a pillar of economic recovery that has often been overlooked, and it plays a pivotal role in creating American jobs, preventing the loss of American jobs, and growing our economy. We must always remember that we’re operating in a global economy – and America cannot just participate in it, we must lead it. The fact is, trade is not a Republican issue or a Democratic issue – it’s an issue of American competitiveness that demands bipartisan cooperation, and I will continue working with my colleagues to open new markets and connect American goods and services with the markets that demand them.” In presenting the award, Harold McGraw III, chairman, president and CEO of The McGraw-Hill Companies and Chairman of ECAT, stated: “Congressman Reichert brings a powerful and bipartisan voice to the halls of Congress, and we thank him for consistently making the case for expanding trade both behind the podium and on the op-ed pages.” The ECAT Awards program was started seven years ago to recognize the contributions of leaders in the public and private sectors, and their work to help ensure the continued economic strength and prosperity of America through the promotion of international commerce and investment. Reichert, a long-time, vocal advocate of free trade, has led the fight in Congress in his role on the House Ways & Means Committee and as a member of the Trade Working Group to urge the passage of pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. Reichert and Adam Smith (WA-09) have garnered the bipartisan support of 88 Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to bring the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) before Congress for consideration. 44 Democrats and 44 Republicans from all regions of the country signaled their support for preparing the trade deal for a vote, which has not been approved by Congress since its signing on June 30, 2007. In 2008, Reichert traveled to Colombia with a bipartisan congressional delegation to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and other stakeholders to discuss the Colombian agreement. Upon his return to the U.S., Reichert circulated an emergency letter urging his colleagues join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Further information on Reichert’s trade advocacy is available here. # # #
03.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today following the President’s release of his 2010 trade agenda: “I’m pleased to see the growing recognition within the Administration of the important role exports and free trade play in job creation and economic recovery. The rhetoric is encouraging, but what we really need is swift action on a trade agenda that has languished over the past year. We must consider not only the jobs that trade can create, but also the jobs America is losing by failing to act while competitors in Europe and Asia aggressively move ahead. Creating jobs through trade involves more than the President’s stated commitment to export promotion and trade enforcement; it also requires proactively opening new markets, negotiating new trade agreements, and implementing those deals that have already been reached with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. Free trade is an often-overlooked stimulus that the Administration can no longer afford to ignore.” # # #
03.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the former Sheriff of King County, Washington, today joined colleagues Harry Teague (NM-02) and Adam Schiff (CA-29) to champion Katie’s Law (H.R. 4614), a bipartisan bill targeted to encourage states to implement minimum DNA testing provisions for felony arrestees, and to match that DNA to profiles in a national database. “The abuse of another human being and the taking of another human life are unthinkable tragedies,” Reichert said. “It is our responsibility to make sure that members of law enforcement have every tool at their disposal as they work to protect our citizens and communities, and to prevent situations like the one Katie Sepich’s family has had to suffer through. DNA science – its collection and analysis – is vital to the criminal investigation process. I believe this bill provides a critical resource that will aid our law enforcement officials in investigating and prosecuting crimes, preventing those crimes from occurring in the first place, and protecting the innocent.” The bill is named for Katie Sepich, from Carlsbad, New Mexico, who was 22 years old when she was brutally raped and murdered. DNA under Katie’s fingernails helped police develop a DNA profile for her killer, which was included in the national DNA database. In 2006, the New Mexico DNA database matched the unknown DNA profile to Gabriel Avilla, who had been arrested for several other crimes – including a felony burglary in November 2003. Katie’s Law was not enacted in New Mexico until January of 2007. Had New Mexico required a DNA sample for Avilla’s felony arrest in November 2003, investigators might have solved Katie’s murder sooner, catching Avilla so he could not roam the streets for three years. Reichert’s support for the bill stems from his distinguished 33-year career in law enforcement and his role as lead investigator at the inception of The Green River Task Force, which solved the largest serial murder case in U.S. history. He has seen firsthand the importance of DNA science: samples collected from victims in the Green River case from the early 80's (1982) were responsible for the identification and arrest of one single suspect 19 years later on four counts of Murder, which ultimately resulted in his GUILTY PLEA in the murders of 48 women. BACKGROUND Each day innocent people in American become victims of violent crimes, many of which are committed by repeat offenders. DNA testing requirements can help prevent crime and protect the innocent. According to DNA Saves: • Since 1974, more than 90 percent of all state prisoners have been repeat offenders; • 70 percent of America’s crime is committed by 6 percent of its criminals; • With DNA arrestee testing on the books since 2003, Virginia has received over 5,000 hits on their database, with nearly 500 of these matches directly attributable to arrestees; • 1 out of every 6 American women have been the victims of an attempted or completed rape; and, • To date, post-conviction DNA testing has led to the exoneration of more than 200 wrongfully convicted individuals in the United States, and many of these individuals were not fully exonerated until after a DNA match was made on the database to another offender. # # #
02.24.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the passage of his Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act (H.R. 1769), through the House Natural Resources Committee with strong bipartisan support. Reichert’s legislation proposes a 22,000-acre expansion of the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area to include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds, and designation of both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. “Today’s vote is a critical step forward in the protection of these treasured areas,” said Reichert. “Washington State has a deep tradition of working together to preserve our natural resources for our children and grandchildren, and this bill will make substantial progress in continuing that tradition. I’m hopeful that my bill and Senator Murray’s companion legislation will soon be brought before the House and Senate for votes, and when they both pass, we look forward to the President signing this legislation to protect these areas for generations to come.” “Today we have moved one step closer to new protections for the Alpine Lake wilderness area that will guarantee that this pristine environment is preserved as a legacy and natural resource for generations to come,” said Senator Patty Murray, the author of companion legislation in the Senate. “This critical legislation has now passed through full committees in both the Senate and the House. I was proud to join with Congressman Reichert to introduce this bill, and I will continue working until this important legislation is signed into law.” Reichert, with the support of state and local officials, other local leaders and constituents of the community, introduced the original wilderness protection measure in November 2007. From extensive stakeholder inquiries involving recreation groups, conservationists, tribes, local lawmakers, nearby landowners and public agencies, Reichert worked carefully to involve these stakeholders in discussions as the legislation was crafted and as it was introduced. The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the legislation include: • Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these lower elevation lands also has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. • To designate the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
02.23.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today joined with the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) in a press conference to remind Washington taxpayers that many of them may be eligible to electronically prepare and e-file their federal tax return online, for free, through the IRS Free File Alliance. The press conference was held at Renton City Hall. “Hundreds of thousands of Washington residents may be entitled to receive the Earned Income Tax Credit, or EITC, yet we hear from the IRS that as many as 25 percent of those eligible never file for it,” Reichert said. “This year, it’s my goal to see that number significantly lowered in our state. When taxpayers use the software programs available through the Free File Alliance, they’ll be well-equipped to identify all credits and deductions they may be eligible for – and that could mean several thousand dollars to put right in their pockets.” “The Earned Income Tax Credit is an effective use of the tax code, because it helps people who are facing hard times get back on their feet again,” Reichert continued. “But the tax code in our country is so complex that unfortunately many Americans aren’t even aware they may be eligible for this important benefit that could save them hundreds of dollars – both through the credit itself, and through free help preparing their returns. Especially in these difficult economic times when families are doing everything possible just to make ends meet, they need all the help they can get. I urge workers to determine whether they qualify to claim this important benefit on their 2009 tax returns, and I urge them to call my office if they need any assistance – we’re here to help.” Last year, 24 million low- and middle-income working families claimed $49 billion in EITC benefits, but the Internal Revenue Service estimates that 5-7 million people who qualify for the credit fail to claim it each year. The credit is available to working people with earned incomes of less than $43,279 ($48,279 married filing jointly). Learn more about this important tax benefit here, and find state-by-state information here. The Free File Alliance is a public-private partnership between the IRS (www.freefile.irs.gov) and the electronic tax software industry that provides free online tax preparation to taxpayers with an Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) of $57,000 or less.
02.19.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today accepted endorsements from both the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and The Real Estate Roundtable of a comprehensive, bipartisan package of energy efficiency tax incentives he has introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. The endorsements were announced at a press conference today by Bryan Howard with USGBC. Bellevue Mayor Don Davidson and Beacon Capital Partners Vice President McClure Kelly also participated in the press conference that preceded a tour of Bellevue’s Key Center, a Beacon Property that recently earned LEED Gold certification. H.R. 4226, the Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act is a bipartisan package of five key tax incentives for energy efficient building that are designed to reduce energy costs for families and businesses, promote innovation and conservation, and create future energy jobs. It expands on companion legislation introduced in the U.S. Senate. In accepting the endorsements, Reichert has stated: “I’m pleased and honored to accept these endorsements of the Expanding Building Efficiency Incentive Act. I am proud of this collaborative, market-based, bipartisan package of tax incentives to help families and businesses save on energy bills and become smarter energy consumers, while at the same time creating much-needed American jobs. My legislation touches all aspects of energy-efficient building, from the construction of a new home to retrofitting an existing one; from helping commercial properties conserve energy and cut energy costs to assisting consumers seeking assessments of home energy usage. The President has urged Congress to look for ways to promote economic recovery, create jobs and cut costs, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to consider and pass this bill that will help meet those important objectives.” “The Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act provides a comprehensive and market approach to promoting efficiency throughout residential and commercial buildings,” said Rick Fedrizzi, president, CEO and founding chair of the U.S. Green Building Council. “Key programs such as incentives for energy auditing training solidify a promising new job path for thousands of American workers. Enhancement of tax deductions for energy efficiency means cutting energy costs for American families and businesses, and making buildings more efficient will reduce emissions on a national level. On behalf of the U.S. Green Building Council’s 19,000 organizational members and 80 local chapters, we thank Congressman Reichert for his leadership, and commend his efforts to make buildings part of the clean energy economy.” “Congressman Reichert’s bill, H.R. 4226, is an important part of a comprehensive approach to modernizing the nation’s existing building stock,” said Real Estate Roundtable President and CEO Jeffrey DeBoer. “His proposed tax incentives – coupled with high-efficiency rebates outlined under the Building STAR program – would create jobs, help small businesses, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and spur investment in the commercial real estate sector. We support Congressman Reichert’s proposed solution to creating green jobs by improving energy efficiency in commercial buildings.” “We applaud and support the proposed legislation introduced by Congressman Reichert and other bipartisan members in the U.S. House of Representatives that promotes the construction and retrofitting of more energy efficient buildings,” said Fred Seigel, President of Beacon Capital Partners. “As a real estate owner and investor, we understand the critical importance of providing a broad range of rebates and incentives that help commercial landlords make investments in meaningful energy conservation projects." Additional information on H.R. 4226 is available here and here. # # #
02.12.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement regarding the 2010 Winter Olympic Games that begin today in Vancouver, Canada. “I know we’re all looking forward to this event that has united people from around the world for many years,” Reichert said. “Sport is a universal language – regardless of who you are or where you come from, we can all respect the discipline, competition, and sportsmanship that make the Olympic Games successful. The Games are a time to celebrate the national pride we all feel by seeing our fellow Americans compete, especially when they are victorious. But it’s also a time to put aside our differences – and applaud the accomplishments of these young people, wherever they’re from. “We’re fortunate here in Washington State to have many gifted, world-renowned athletes who compete in a range of sports,” Reichert continued. “People like Patrick Deneen, the world-champion freestyle/mogul skier from Cle Elum, and Bremerton’s bobsledder, Bree Schaaf, who will undoubtedly make us proud as they represent Team USA in their quest for gold. Washington State is home to even international competitors like Yina Moe-Lange, a 16 year-old Alpine Ski Racer and Skyline High School student from Sammamish, who will be racing for Denmark. We also have the opportunity to root for two athletes contending in the same sport: Apolo Anton Ohno, who co-owns the title of the most decorated American male winter Olympian in history, and J.R. Celski, the rising Federal Way star. As rivals and teammates, they will demonstrate the competitive energy and cooperative spirit of the Pacific Northwest. “Even as we celebrate the Games and what they mean to our country and the rest of the world, we must remain vigilant in the face of ever-present threats to our security and safety. With Vancouver a mere 30 miles outside the U.S. border, this Olympics, more than any other on foreign soil, requires a powerful American security effort. Thanks to a collaborative effort between the U.S. Navy, Coastguard, and the Canadian Navy, the Puget Sound area will have extensive coastal protection. Also, with the development of a multi-million dollar security hub in Bellingham, 40 different agencies will be monitoring the border and assessing any threats to the Olympics and its venues. With these measures in place we can help ensure the safety of Americans and other global citizens, as well as maintain the security of our borders. “I’m confident the Games will be successful and inspiring to America and the world, and I look forward to watching our Washington athletes compete with the honor and respect that will make us all proud.” There are a total of nine Olympic athletes that hail from the State of Washington. Apolo Anton Ohno; Seattle, WA; Short-Track Speed Skater J.R. Celski; Federal Way, WA; Short-Track Speed Skater Nicole Joraanstad; Seattle, WA; Women’s Curling Team Patrick Deneen; Cle Elum, WA; Mogul/Freestyle Skier Karen Thatcher; Blaine, WA; Ice Hockey Bree Schaaf; Bremerton, WA; Bobsled Torin Koos; Leavenworth, WA; Skiing - Cross Country Will Brandenburg; Spokane, WA; Skiing - Alpine Christian Niccum; Woodinville, WA; Luge # # #
02.10.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) invites all interested high school students residing in Washington State’s Eighth Congressional District to participate in “An Artistic Discovery,” the 2010 Congressional Art Competition conducted to recognize and encourage creative talent among high school students. “Last year’s competition brought so many interesting and unique projects, and I’m excited to see what’s in store for this year’s projects,” Reichert said. “This competition not only showcases the talents of our students, but also highlights an important aspect of education, to promote and develop creativity in our schools. I encourage all students to get involved.” Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by each Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, with the winning artwork from each district displayed in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The 2010 winner for the Eighth District will replace last year’s winner, a pointism work entitled, “Owl” by Kendra Hobbs, a junior from Tahoma Senior High School. Interested students can find full, detailed guidelines for the competition on Congressman Reichert’s website. Submissions must be received by April 16, 2010. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition.
02.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today rejected the largest one-time debt limit increase in U.S. history, a proposal that would raise the debt limit to a staggering $14,294,000,000,000. “Today’s vote to increase the debt limit is yet another step down a dangerous path,” Reichert said. “Yesterday in my role on the Ways & Means Committee I had the opportunity to hear testimony from Administration officials as they represented the President’s newly-proposed federal budget, and I must say, I heard little to encourage me that we are on the right track to stimulate our economy and put Americans back to work. “I’m deeply concerned by the budget put forward this week for consideration in the House,” Reichert continued. “It appears we’ve been presented with no real plan – no constructive solutions – to get our fiscal house in order, or to reign-in spending by the federal government that has clearly spiraled out of control. I have proposed my own “Common Cents” agenda to restore Congress’ respect for hard-earned taxpayer dollars, to control spending, and reform the earmark process, and I encourage my colleagues to look to this as a guideline we might follow. “Congress’ first priority must be to protect taxpayers’ pocketbooks and ensure that tax dollars are focused on improving the lives of Americans and our economy – allowing for the innovation and job-creation that is so badly needed. We must get spending under control, period.” Background Yesterday, the House Ways and Means Committee held two separate hearings on the President’s 2011 budget proposal with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner and Office of Management and Budget Secretary Peter Orszag. Reichert, in both hearings, pressed on the Administration’s proposals for job creation, preventing further job loss, and its commitment to free trade as a job creator. For more on Congressman Reichert’s “Common Cents” agenda, click here. # # #
01.29.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today urged workers throughout Washington’s 8th District to learn whether they qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). Qualified individuals are also eligible for free tax preparation assistance. “The Earned Income Tax Credit is an effective use of the tax code, because it helps people who are facing hard times get back on their feet again,” Reichert said. “But the tax code in our country is so complex that unfortunately many Americans aren’t even aware they may be eligible for this important benefit that could save them hundreds of dollars – both through the credit itself, and through free help preparing their returns. Especially in these difficult economic times when families are doing everything possible just to make ends meet, they need all the help they can get. I urge workers to determine whether they qualify to claim this important benefit on their 2009 tax returns, and I urge them to call my office if they need any assistance – we’re here to help.” January 29 is EITC Awareness Day. Last year, 24 million low- and middle-income working families claimed $49 billion in EITC benefits, but the Internal Revenue Service estimates that 5-7 million people who qualify for the credit fail to claim it each year. The credit is available to working people with earned incomes of less than $43,279 ($48,279 married filing jointly). Learn more about this important tax benefit here, and find state-by-state information here. # # #
01.27.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today issued the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I appreciate the President’s emphasis tonight on helping struggling families across our country,” Reichert said. “I come from one of those families and know what it’s like to face tough financial decisions. As we continue to see record unemployment and so many Americans doing everything within their power to make ends meet, economic recovery and job creation must be the top priority for this Administration and the Congress. I share the President’s goal to restore America’s prosperity, but I firmly believe there are more effective solutions than the inflated spending packages we’ve seen so far. “The President covered a lot of ground in his remarks tonight, but no discussion about jump-starting our economy is complete without addressing fundamental building blocks. We must help our small businesses – they are our job creators and the heart and soul of our economy. And we must keep taxes low, ensure access to credit, and implement pending free trade agreements. I’m particularly disappointed that for such focus on the economy, the President merely paid lip service to the proven job-creating effect of free trade – the cornerstone of Washington State’s economy. We’ve heard this pro-trade rhetoric for the past year but have yet to see action. America produces the very best goods and services in the world, but we can’t afford to forget that 95 percent of our customers are in markets across the globe. Let’s connect American goods and services with the markets that demand them, not close our doors to a competitive global economy. We have three key pending agreements with South Korea, Panama, and Colombia. Let’s implement them. “The President also announced his intent to provide funds for energy-efficient modifications to homes and businesses,” Reichert continued. “And while I appreciate his recognition that energy retrofits are a way to create jobs, I believe that proposal would only be a short-term, band aid approach. What we really need is a long-term plan to promote energy efficiency and create permanent, private-sector jobs. I have that plan. I recently introduced a comprehensive, market-based energy efficiency bill that has wide, bipartisan support because it will help families and businesses reduce their energy bills and create future energy jobs. And rather than throwing money at the problem, it offers an incentive to help people understand exactly what energy retrofits make sense for their needs. My proposal provides the blueprint for effective results. So in the months ahead, I’ll look forward to partnering with fellow members of Congress to move this plan forward. “Tonight we also heard much talk about hope. To be sure, the President and I have a common purpose – to get our economy back on track and working for all Americans. But we have different ideas about what’s needed to get the job done. Yes, we need to work together, and yes, we should be hopeful. But what we need to accomplish is removing the obstacles that stand between our fellow Americans and their success. We need to remove those barriers and unleash the freedom, ingenuity, and creative solutions that only our businesses, entrepreneurs, and everyday American citizens can deliver. I do have hope, but it’s not in institutions. I stake my hope in the American people.” # # #
01.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued this statement following the announcement of December’s unemployment numbers: “Since October, families across this country have been struggling with crushing, double-digit unemployment – a record we’ve only seen one other time since World War II,” Reichert said. “In fact, it’s been one year since the House began debating the ‘stimulus’ bill that was promised to create immediate jobs and keep unemployment below 8 percent. Clearly, the stimulus has failed to deliver on those promises. In my home district, businesses are being forced to cut back just to survive, or they’re making the difficult choice between closing their doors or leaving the state altogether. “So rather than force a job-killing, tax-raising health care bill on the American people, it’s high time we focus our efforts on creating jobs and doing what’s necessary to jump-start our economy. Rather than growing the size of government, we should instead be working to keep taxes low, act on pending free trade agreements, and offer incentives that will encourage innovation and investment.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics today reported continued job loss in December, with an unemployment rate of 9.5 percent. # # #
01.22.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued this statement following the announcement of December’s unemployment numbers: “Since October, families across this country have been struggling with crushing, double-digit unemployment – a record we’ve only seen one other time since World War II,” Reichert said. “In fact, it’s been one year since the House began debating the ‘stimulus’ bill that was promised to create immediate jobs and keep unemployment below 8 percent. Clearly, the stimulus has failed to deliver on those promises. In my home district, businesses are being forced to cut back just to survive, or they’re making the difficult choice between closing their doors or leaving the state altogether. “So rather than force a job-killing, tax-raising health care bill on the American people, it’s high time we focus our efforts on creating jobs and doing what’s necessary to jump-start our economy. Rather than growing the size of government, we should instead be working to keep taxes low, act on pending free trade agreements, and offer incentives that will encourage innovation and investment.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics today reported continued job loss in December, with an unemployment rate of 9.5 percent. # # #
01.13.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement calling for immediate consideration of legislation that would provide public access to health care negotiations: “We must never forget that first and foremost, this issue is about people,” Reichert said. “It’s about their health and their well being. This health care overhaul proposal, which will have such a profound affect on Americans and our economy, should be discussed, debated, and negotiated in the light of day – not brokered behind closed doors. “Transparency is the key to a healthy, thriving democracy. That’s why I have authored legislation requiring transparency in the committee voting process, and it’s why I’m proud to co-sponsor Rep. Vern Buchanan’s resolution to bring openness to these negotiations. We must never lose sight of the fact that we represent the American people, and they deserve to know what’s being discussed and how it will affect them. I will never stop fighting for an open legislative process, or for a sensible approach to addressing health care reform.” Background Reichert is a co-sponsor of Rep. Buchanan’s (R-FL) “Sunshine Resolution,” H.Res. 847, which would require public access to negotiations on the Democrats’ health care takeover bill being crafted behind closed doors. Currently, 151 bipartisan Members have cosponsored H.Res. 847. When this petition reaches 218 signatures, Democrats must open negotiations to the public. Reichert, a long-time advocate for a transparent legislative process, recently introduced legislation, H.R. 874, a bill that would require each of the 21 standing Committees in the U.S. House of Representatives to post record votes on their websites within 48 hours. # # #
01.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement following reports of a foiled terrorist attempt to blow up Northwest Airlines Flight 253 over Detroit on Christmas Day: "First and foremost we are grateful for those heroes who tackled the suspect as he attempted to detonate an explosive device on the plane," Reichert said. "The quick response and bravery of those passengers averted disaster and likely prevented the deaths of the 278 passengers and 11 crew members. This foiled terror attempt raises a number of serious questions. Why was the suspect not on the no-fly list if he was on the known terrorist list? Also, what type of explosive device did the suspect attempt to use, and how was he able to bring it on plane? We must find the answers to these questions because those who wish America harm will continue to change and adapt their tactics, so we must remain flexible, responsive and agile in our efforts to keep our citizens safe. "Yesterday's events remind us that we must remain ever-vigilant. I thank the men and women who work hard to keep our air travel safe. They are serving on the front lines of our national security and must always have the latest, most up-to-date technology and accurate, timely intelligence, and I will continue working to make sure they do." # # #
01.04.2010	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today following the news that Pierce County Sheriff's Deputy Kent Mundell has died from gunshot wounds he sustained in the line of duty: "For the third time in less than two months we are devastated by the loss of a 6th brave public servant and member of our law enforcement family," Reichert said. "The brutal, senseless murders of Seattle Police Officer Brenton, Lakewood Police Sgt. Renninger and Officers Owens, Griswold, and Richards, and now Deputy Mundell have shaken us to our core and we cannot understand or tolerate these attacks on our community and those who put on the uniform each and every day to keep us safe. "It is impossible in times like these to find appropriate words to comfort the families, friends, loved ones and the law enforcement family. Please know that we will never forget Deputy Mundell's selfless sacrifice, and his efforts to protect our community and keep us all safe from harm. Our hearts are broken with yours, and we grieve with you today. We pray for your comfort at this time of loss." # # #
12.24.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert today issued the following statement after the Senate passed health care overhaul legislation by a vote of 60-39, along party lines: “I am deeply disappointed that today the Senate has approved a government-run health care overhaul that raises the cost of health care for Americans and hurts our seniors, working families, and retirees,” Reichert said. “This legislation raises taxes on those who cannot afford it, takes away basic freedoms by allowing government interference in personal medical decisions, and threatens our economy. It’s a sad state of affairs when the United States Congress refuses to work together in a bipartisan way to deliver the common-sense solutions the people in this country need and deserve. “This roughly $1 trillion bill is the wrong prescription for our health care, our economy, and future generations,” Reichert continued. “Health care is about people, and yet this misguided legislation hurts the very people it claims to help. On the eve of a holiday cherished by so many Americans, it is shameful that the gift Congress approves is a package of massive tax increases, slashed Medicare benefits, penalties for those who need medical devices, and budget threats for retirees living on fixed incomes. Instead of passing this bill that hurts Americans and threatens our financial future, Congress should start from square one with health care, and shift its focus to address our economy and job creation. That is the gift Congress should give Americans this Christmas. “But the fight is not over. Even as negotiations take place between the House and Senate, I will continue doing everything within my power to protect and strengthen health care for all Americans. That includes protecting people from increased costs, government interference in their decisions, losing the health plans they have and want to keep, and ensuring access to the best care at prices people can afford.” BACKGROUND On November 7, Reichert opposed the House version of health care overhaul legislation. To address concerns of job losses associated with the House-passed bill, he offered an amendment to exempt small businesses from the bill’s proposed penalty tax should it cause them to freeze hiring, cut pay, or order layoffs. The amendment was not permitted to be considered. Reichert also supported alternative legislation that focused on lowering the cost of health care premiums for families and small businesses, increasing access to affordable, high-quality care, and promoting healthier lifestyles – without adding to the national debt. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways and Means Committee debate on this health care legislation, visit https://reichert.house.gov/HealthCare.
12.21.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on the Senate decision to advance debate on health care overhaul legislation: “As our economy continues to struggle and families are hurting, I am disappointed that the Senate has voted to move forward with a proposed overhaul to health care that rings in at more than $2.5 trillion, will cost even more jobs, and raises taxes on families, small businesses, and seniors,” Reichert said. “Even more disturbing is the freedom this legislation takes away from every single American. We must work together on real solutions that begin to bring down the cost of health care and deliver it to those who need it most, and as this bill heads to a final vote in the Senate and then to a closed-door conference committee, I’ll continue fighting for the solutions seniors, families, and businesses need. This bill is the wrong answer to the challenges we face, and with each day that passes it becomes clearer that this is also the wrong time to saddle our families, small businesses, and future generations with such a heavy burden. “With unemployment hovering at 10 percent, it is high time for Congress to refocus its priorities,” Reichert continued. “Instead of passing this misguided bill that threatens our freedoms, Congress should be doing everything within its power to get us back on a path to stability and recovery. That includes implementing broad-based tax relief, effective, targeted infrastructure spending, creating a culture of innovation for small and large businesses, and opening new markets to trade. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to shelf this bill and turn to address our economic crisis. The future well-being of every American depends on it.” BACKGROUND On November 7, Reichert opposed the House version of health care overhaul legislation. To address concerns of job losses associated with the House-passed bill, he offered an amendment to exempt small businesses from the bill’s proposed penalty tax should it cause them to freeze hiring, cut pay, or order layoffs. The amendment was not permitted to be considered. Reichert also supported alternative legislation that focused on lowering the cost of health care premiums for families and small businesses, increasing access to affordable, high-quality care, and promoting healthier lifestyles – without adding to the national debt. Reichert has long been an outspoken advocate of measures proven to stimulate the economy, including tax incentives, growing jobs and exports by enacting free trade agreements, and fiscal responsibility that holds federal spending to sustainable levels. Earlier this year, he introduced H.R. 4328, the Reclaiming Bailout Funds for Taxpayers Act, which works to reclaim bailout money on behalf of taxpayers, calling for unused funds to be returned and to pay down the deficit. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways and Means Committee debate on this health care legislation, visit https://reichert.house.gov/HealthCare. # # #
12.16.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today opposed passage of a second “stimulus” and increasing the federal debt limit, two pieces of legislation that passed the House of Representatives despite bipartisan opposition. “Hard-working Americans across this country are looking for common sense solutions to ease their fears about jobs and our snowballing national debt,” Reichert said. “But rather than offering those solutions, today Congress asked taxpayers for hundreds of billions more to rerun a second “stimulus” when the first try has yet to preserve jobs. In my view that’s inexcusable. Americans were told the first stimulus bill would create 3.5 million jobs and keep unemployment from rising above 8 percent, but instead we’ve lost nearly 3 million jobs – over 65,900 in the State of Washington – and employment hovers above 10 percent. Now is not the time to hastily duplicate programs that have proven ineffective in creating jobs or stimulating recovery. Last year’s $700 billion bailout shows what happens when government rushes to act. “Now is the time for Congress to take a step back to get its fiscal house in order and deliver on the common-sense solutions Americans are looking for,” Reichert continued. “That means implementing broad-based tax relief, effective, targeted infrastructure spending, creating a culture of innovation for small and large businesses alike, and opening new markets to trade to put our country and our economy back on the right track.” Reichert has long been an outspoken advocate of measures proven to stimulate the economy including tax incentives, growing jobs and exports by enacting free trade agreements, and fiscal responsibility that holds federal spending to sustainable levels. Earlier this year, Reichert introduced H.R. 4328, the Reclaiming Bailout Funds for Taxpayers Act, which works to reclaim bailout money on behalf of taxpayers, calling for unused funds to be returned and to pay down the deficit. # # #
12.16.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded President Barack Obama’s support for the cost-saving and job-creating potential of energy efficiency incentives. Reichert, a vocal proponent of such measures, recently introduced H.R. 4226, the Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act of 2009, a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that extends and expands five key energy efficiency incentives for the construction of a new home, retrofitting an existing one, upgrading commercial properties to conserve and cut energy costs, and assisting consumers seeking assessments of home energy usage. “I am encouraged by the President’s support for a market-based approach to reduce home energy costs and create future energy jobs,�? Reichert said. “I am proud to author a bipartisan package of tax incentives to help families and businesses save on energy bills and become smarter energy consumers, while at the same time creating much-needed American jobs. The President has urged Congress to look for ways to promote economic recovery, create jobs and cut costs, and so I urge my colleagues in Congress to consider and pass this bill that will help meet those important objectives.�? Provisions of H.R. 4226 include: 1) New Energy Efficient Home Tax Credit (45L): $5,000 tax credit for the construction of a new home that is 50 percent more energy efficient than 2003 standards. Since its creation in 2005, this credit has seen a three-fold increase in usage, but it is set to expire at the end of 2009. 2) Deduction for Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings (179D): Increases the deduction for energy efficient upgrades to commercial buildings from $1.80 to $3.00 per square foot. 3) Residential Property Energy Credit (25C): $5,000 credit to homeowners to offset the costs of energy efficient retrofits (i.e. heating and cooling systems, windows, and doors) to their property. 4) Home Energy Rating Credit (25E): $200 credit for the cost of obtaining a home energy rating. 5) Home Performance Auditor Certification Credit (45R): $500 credit for training to be certified to perform home energy ratings. # # #
12.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today supported legislation to improve consumer protections and modernize the nation’s financial regulatory system without additional government spending and excessive new government bureaucracy. The House of Representatives instead passed the largest overhaul of the system since the 1930s, spending billions to create an elaborate government bureaucracy with unprecedented powers. Reichert opposed this legislation, which despite bipartisan opposition passed by a vote of 223-202. “We need to better enforce our existing laws and modernize an outdated financial regulatory system to ensure that authorities can prevent many of the consumer scams and abuses that contributed to these tough economic times,” Reichert said. “That’s why I helped offer a bipartisan amendment to allow existing, experienced regulators to coordinate better, protect consumers, and help small lenders extend credit to families and small businesses. Our current regulatory structure must serve consumers, lenders, and financial businesses better, not waste billions more taxpayer dollars to create a massive government bureaucracy, headed by a czar, with limited congressional oversight.” Reichert helped offer a bipartisan amendment providing a superior protection of American consumers by enforcing current laws with experienced regulators rather than creating a new agency with a “czar” to oversee all financial products. Under the current bill, a new bureaucracy would be created to review and approve consumer financial products while having unprecedented, virtually unchecked authority to restrict product choices for consumers. The alternative offered by Reichert would protect consumers through new coordination of existing, experienced regulators while better coordinating existing standards. # # #
12.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today following House passage of a $446.8 billion appropriations bill that increases spending by 12 percent: “There are many essential programs and projects worthy of federal assistance that I strongly support, but the significant 12 percent spending increase in this half a trillion dollar bill failed to account for the deteriorating condition of our federal budget,” Reichert said. “The fact is, our economy is staggering under the weight of a record deficit, record unemployment, and a proposed $1.3 trillion health overhaul bill. Much like hard-working American families and even state governments, Congress must take a long, hard look at what’s necessary to get its fiscal house in order while sustaining vital programs in a way that acknowledges the seriousness of our current economic situation. Simply put, Congress needs to tighten its belt.” The legislation, H.R. 3288, passed the House today by a vote of 221-202.
12.09.2009	U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA08) and Ron Kind (D-WI03) today announced the introduction of a comprehensive package of energy efficiency tax incentives designed to reduce energy costs for families and businesses, promote innovation and conservation, and create future energy jobs. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR03), Geoff Davis (R-KY04), Tom Perriello (D-VA05), and Chris Lee (R-NY26) rounded out the bipartisan group of House Members from across the country who sponsored H.R. 4226, the Expanding Building Efficiency Incentives Act of 2009. “I’m proud of this collaborative, market-based, bipartisan approach to help families and businesses save on energy bills and to create future energy jobs as Americans adapt to the realities and innovations of a 21st Century economy,” Congressman Dave Reichert said. “Our legislation touches all aspects of energy-efficient building, from the construction of a new home to retrofitting an existing one; from helping commercial properties conserve energy and cut energy costs to assisting consumers seeking assessments of home energy usage. I’m pleased to have the leadership and support of this bipartisan coalition in crafting this incentives package, and I am optimistic House leaders will strongly consider and advance our proposal.” “Energy efficient homes and businesses are vital for our environment and our pocketbooks in the 21st Century,” said Congressman Ron Kind. “I am pleased that this bill provides increased incentives through extension and enhancement of the tax credit for new construction of energy efficient homes, something I pushed to include. It is important that we address home and building efficiency from both ends through retrofits to existing homes as well as promoting the building of efficient homes moving forward.” “We want to make sure we’re providing strong, effective incentives for people to improve their home's energy efficiency and reduce waste,” said Congressman Earl Bluemenauer. “At a time when people are feeling cash-strapped, and we’re working as a nation to reduce our output of global warming pollution, I am pleased we can encourage people and businesses to cut costs and save energy.” “Encouraging energy efficiency in American homes and businesses through H.R. 4226 will reduce energy consumption and create American jobs,” said Congressman Geoff Davis. “This bipartisan solution will provide targeted tax relief to homeowners, homebuilders and other small businesses that adopt technology to reduce their energy consumption. By increasing energy efficiency, both families and businesses across America will see their utility bills decline. I am pleased to join my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in introducing this commonsense legislation.” “Home energy efficiency upgrades will put people to work, save families money, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil,” said Congressman Tom Perriello. “This bill will make it easier for folks to monitor their home energy use and implement energy-saving technologies. Additionally, it will train energy auditors, offering new jobs in an expanding field. I’m grateful for the collaboration of my colleagues from across the aisle because we all realize that jobs and energy independence are not partisan issues – they just make sense.” “I’ve heard time and time again from constituents who want to make improvements to increase their home’s energy efficiency,” said Congressman Chris Lee. “By extending and enhancing these tax credits, we have a chance to significantly decrease energy costs while promoting innovation and conservation. I look forward to working with my colleagues who understand the real benefits that can be achieved when we increase our nation’s energy efficiency.” H.R. 4226 is composed of five key tax incentives for energy efficient building that expand on companion legislation introduced by Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM): 1) New Energy Efficient Home Tax Credit (45L): Provides a $5,000 tax credit for the construction of a new home that is 50 percent more energy efficient than 2003 standards. Since its creation in 2005, this credit has seen a three-fold increase in usage, but it is set to expire at the end of 2009. 2) Deduction for Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings (179D): Increases and extends a deduction for energy efficient upgrades to commercial buildings. 3) Residential Property Energy Credit (25C): Offers a credit to homeowners to offset the costs of energy efficient retrofits (including new heating and cooling systems, windows, and doors) to their property. 4) Home Energy Rating Credit (25E): Provides a $200 credit for the cost incurred for a home energy rating. 5) Home Performance Auditor Certification Credit (45R): Provides a $500 credit for training to be certified to perform home energy ratings. # # #
12.09.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) defended innovation and investment today, voting to prevent a permanent tax increase that threatens small business growth, job creation, education endowments, promising health care and energy research, and the pensions of thousands of Washington State retirees. The House passed the tax hike, which was paired with a package of one-year extensions of expiring tax relief, by a vote of 241-181. “Congress should renew the expiring tax incentives that families and small businesses depend on, but it makes no sense to provide temporary, short-term relief by imposing massive, permanent tax increases on innovation and investment – two essential catalysts of job creation,” Reichert said. “I have and will continue to support the extension of critical tax relief for Washington State families and small businesses, and to help homeowners mitigate damage from natural disasters. These critical provisions should not have been paired with a burdensome tax hike on the Pacific Northwest’s culture of innovation – especially when our economy continues to struggle and we’re experiencing record unemployment.” Reichert continued: “This new tax would unfairly punish entrepreneurs who risk capital to create new businesses and jobs; targeting investment threatens the pensions of workers including 440,000 retired Washington State teachers and public employees, university endowments, and real estate trusts, all of which are already suffering in this recession.” Reichert has long championed several of the tax incentives in the legislation (H.R. 4213), and offered amendments to the bill to increase a tax deduction for teachers’ out-of-pocket classroom expenses and to extend an expiring credit for the construction of new energy efficient homes. He will continue fighting to make the state sales tax deduction and the research and development tax credit permanent, and to enact legislation he cosponsored to extend disaster-related tax relief. # # #
12.08.2009	Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Health, was joined by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Congresswoman Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) in questioning the political self-interests of AARP’s endorsement of legislation that will result in significant Medicare cuts for seniors. They addressed these concerns in a letter to AARP CEO Barry Rand: Congressman Herger said, “I am deeply concerned by AARP’s willingness to turn a blind eye to the harmful impact the Democrats’ health ‘reform’ legislation could have on America’s seniors. AARP continues to claim that the half a trillion dollars in Medicare cuts won’t hurt seniors’ Medicare benefits or pocketbooks, yet their corporate partners and independent government officials say the exact opposite. The fact is seniors could face drastic benefit cuts and premium increases. AARP has spent millions of dollars to run advertisements in support of the Democrats’ bill and, in doing so, has taken a position that conflicts with the interests of America’s seniors. AARP should be fighting to protect seniors from this raid on Medicare and arming them with the facts instead of focusing on its own political interests in Washington.” Congresswoman Brown-Waite added, “It’s more than just ‘inquiring minds want to know’. Their members deserve to know where a huge portion of AARP’s funding is coming from. Their members ought to know that they are paying a premium for the service they’re receiving under the AARP brand.” “AARP needs to be honest with its members, as we’re hearing conflicting reports from its partners on how the current health care reform will affect plans and people who participate in them,” Reichert said. “AARP’s support for the current proposal, which includes drastic Medicare cuts, doesn’t make sense until you look at the bottom line and where much of its revenue comes from. Selling Medigap insurance appears to be AARP’s bread and butter – which is convenient when that insurance becomes essential for thousands of seniors who stand to lose their Medicare Advantage plans should this bill become law.” ###
12.08.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today opposed H.R. 4154, legislation that would reinstate the estate tax on family-owned small businesses and raise the tax to a rate of 45 percent. Under current law, the estate tax, or “death tax,” is scheduled to be eliminated in 2010. The bill that passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 225-200 would permanently revive this tax on family-owned farms and small businesses passed down through generations. “What Congress should be working to revive is our economy, not the death tax,” Reichert said. “With unemployment eclipsing 10 percent, we should be focusing on solutions that help small businesses preserve and create jobs, not substantial new tax burdens that threaten their ability to survive the current economy. Small businesses remain the engines driving our economy, and they represent the American Dream. Like my predecessor Jennifer Dunn, I have long fought to repeal this unfair tax and will continue working for a permanent solution that enables family-owned small businesses to endure, grow, and plan for an uncertain future.” Background: Today’s House-passed legislation revokes the year of full repeal that is scheduled under current law – and would permanently extend the 45 percent tax rate and the exemption amount ($3.5 million) that are currently in effect for 2009. The measure also fails to index the exemption for inflation, which means that more American households, small businesses, and family farms will be saddled with estate tax liabilities over time. In 2007, the estate tax cost Washington State more than $500 million. Since coming to Congress, Reichert has cosponsored legislation (HR 3463) to permanently repeal the “death tax” and free America’s family-owned small businesses from the burden of this onerous and unfair tax. # # #
12.04.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement following the announcement by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of further job losses in the month of November: “Coming just a day after the jobs summit, today’s news that unemployment remains at 10 percent is further evidence that Congress and the Administration must move beyond just talking about creating jobs and instead push to enact meaningful solutions to revive our ailing economy. In the past three months, 261,000 American jobs have been lost, and American families and small businesses continue to struggle. Congress and the Administration would serve the American people well by acting on pending trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama; implementing new job-creating incentives for innovation and investment; and targeting federal spending to make needed infrastructure improvements.” Today the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy continued to lose jobs in November, and the unemployment rate remained at 10 percent. # # #
12.01.2009	Today Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued this statement following the President’s announcement regarding troop levels in Afghanistan: “Concerning our military commitments, I have always said our President needs to listen to the generals he has entrusted to assess what is required to fight and to win,�? Reichert said. "With reserved optimism, I am pleased the President has heeded the advice or our military leaders to send additional troops needed to accomplish our mission. This is a complex issue and I believe it is in America’s vital security interest to win. "While setting an internal schedule and benchmarks is important, publicly establishing a timeline for withdrawal sends the wrong message to our fellow Americans and the rest of the world. It sends the signal that we are not sending these troops to fight, win and provide the security and economic stability the government and people of Afghanistan need, but that we are only biding our time and looking for a way out. “I look forward to hearing from Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, General McChrystal and the diplomats who will testify before Congress in the days to come, to learn whether they believe the resources committed today are sufficient to complete this mission safely and effectively. “Additionally, we anticipate this could affect troops based at Ft. Lewis and McChord Air Force Base, and I will be in close contact with both installations regarding the impact this decision could have and how we can best continue to support our troops and the entire military community.�? # # #
12.01.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after police announced the suspect in the Lakewood Officer Shootings had been shot and killed: “I commend the law enforcement agencies and every officer involved in the hunt and capture of the suspected killer in the case of the Lakewood officer shootings. By the brave work of those involved, this suspect was stopped without another officer or citizen harmed. Through it all, we must remember these brave officers, and the families and friends they leave behind. We must join together as a community to provide the encouragement and support they need to sustain them through the moments, days, and months to come. “In the aftermath,” Reichert continued, “we must also ask the difficult but necessary questions: How did this happen? Why was this person not in prison, and what can we do in the future to prevent this sort of heinous crime? We owe it to the brave officers who lost their lives, we owe it to their families and friends, and we owe it to all society to find the answers to these questions and address whatever lessons we learn from them.” # # #
11.30.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the pending announcement regarding troop levels in Afghanistan: “Today, the day before Thanksgiving, we are particularly mindful of the thousands of men and women serving in our military who are separated from their families and loved ones,” Reichert said. “We thank them for their willing service and sacrifice, and for all they do to keep our country secure and to protect the freedom we hold dear. “It has long been my view that our Generals in the field are in the best position to determine the resources they need to get the job done and to keep our country safe,” Reichert continued. “More than two months ago, Gen. McChrystal requested 40,000 additional troops to support counterinsurgency efforts and execute the mission in Afghanistan. In fact, he has said the next year is critical and that inadequate resources could result in failure. It is my sincere hope that the President will heed the General’s request in order to maximize the safety of troops already on the ground, and to stabilize the Afghan government through supporting its army, police, and tribal groups who are willing to fight for freedom. “Some have voiced concerns that such an increase could deepen Afghanistan’s reliance on the U.S., but we would do well in this case to remember the Anbar Awakening. The people of Al Anbar Province in Iraq, with the aid of Coalition forces, rose up to fight al Qaeda. If a recent report by the New York Times revealing the emergence of a large-scale tribal rebellion in Afghanistan against the Taliban is any indication, the Afghan people are engaging in fighting this battle; we should consider that the additional troops requested by Gen. McChrystal could aid in their self-sufficiency. I have been to Afghanistan. I have visited their police academy, and I’ve talked with the men who have volunteered to defend their country and their communities. They know the grave statistics -- that officers are killed more quickly than they can be replaced, and they still fight. “This decision is first and foremost about supporting our troops, and it is also about respecting Gen. McChrystal’s professional assessment of what is required to succeed in this conflict.” # # #
11.30.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the fatal shooting of four Lakewood police officers: “I am deeply saddened by the news that four Lakewood police officers were murdered this morning as they were preparing to go on duty,” Reichert said. “A profound tragedy has struck our community today, and I extend my deepest sympathy to the families and friends of each of the officers whose lives were so brutally taken from them. “It was nearly one month ago that we mourned the loss of Seattle Police officer Tim Brenton,” Reichert continued, “and we are now – too soon – again reminded that life is precious. But every human life that is taken by another is particularly tragic. The loss of these officers is one that touches their family and friends, but the shock waves extend out to the law enforcement family, throughout the community of Lakewood, across Pierce County and the entire region. These officers are people who every day put on the uniform to protect our lives, our homes, our families and our children, and they have dedicated their lives to keeping us safe from harm. The thought that someone is sick enough to take the lives of those sworn to protect us breaks our hearts and tears at the very fabric of a safe society. “I am confident that the law enforcement family is now pulling together, united in the common mission of arresting the suspect or suspects so that they can be held accountable for this heinous act. It is my sincere hope that the person or people responsible will be caught quickly, not only for the sake of public safety at large, but also so that the families, friends, and all those affected by today’s events will be able to move through the grieving process. We will continue to hold these fallen officers and their families close in thought and heart.” # # #
11.19.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today rejected a bill that would increase Medicare Part B premiums and add more than $260 billion to the federal deficit. The House passed the legislation, H.R. 3961, by a vote of 243-183. “Our current system of reimbursing doctors for treating Medicare patients is in need of reform to ensure that physicians are appropriately compensated and our seniors’ access to care is not jeopardized, and I’ve long supported efforts to bring a permanent fix to this problem,” said Reichert. “While this bill purports to preserve seniors’ access to care, it does so through a hidden tax on their Medicare Part B premiums. Once again, our seniors get the short end of the stick – first with $500 billion in cuts to Medicare in the health care overhaul bill, and now a hidden tax. With health care costs soaring and threatening seniors’ health benefits, it makes no sense to suggest that we can preserve seniors’ access by demanding that they pay more for it.” Reichert continued, “I sincerely hope that people in my district, and across America, understand the political sleight-of-hand that took place today that further penalizes our seniors. The question we need to be asking here is: why did Speaker Pelosi pull this $260 billion “reform” from the larger health care overhaul bill? Ensuring physicians can treat seniors on Medicare should be included in any health care reform legislation, to fix the problem in a way that’s responsible, transparent, open with taxpayers, and doesn’t hurt seniors or mortgage our children’s futures.” Reichert supported an alternative today that would provide physicians with a competitive increase in payments for doctors, with reform in the legislation to compensate for the increases by implementing comprehensive, meaningful medical liability reform, ending junk lawsuits and costly defensive medicine by protecting doctors from overzealous trial lawyers. Congressman Reichert has long-supported efforts to bring a permanent fix to the Medicare physician payment system. Today’s House-passed legislation, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, will cost $260 billion, with $210 billion in deficit spending and $50 billion paid for by Medicare beneficiaries in the form of higher Part B premiums. The legislation would also: • Allow physician payment rates to be slashed if government spending targets are exceeded; • Tie spending targets to the Gross Domestic Product; and • Tie Physician reimbursement rates to utilization, continuing to punish providers who focus on delivering high-quality care while rewarding those who focus on volume.
11.17.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman John Tanner (TN-08) today announced that the National Education Association (NEA) endorsed the Teacher Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3758), a proposal that would both increase and make permanent the maximum tax deduction available for educators purchasing classroom supplies out-of-pocket and pursuing qualified professional development. In a letter to the Representatives, NEA states, in part: On behalf of the National Education Association's (NEA) 3.2 million members, we would like to thank you for your leadership in introducing the Teacher Tax Relief Act (H.R 3758). …The educator tax deduction helps recognize the financial sacrifices made by teachers and paraprofessionals, who often reach into their own pockets to purchase classroom supplies such as books, pencils, paper, and art supplies. …By increasing the current deduction and making it permanent, your legislation will make a real difference for many educators, who often must sacrifice other personal needs in order to pay for classroom supplies. Ongoing professional development is essential to ensure that educators stay up-to-date on the skills and knowledge necessary to prepare students for the challenges of the 21st century. H.R. 3758 will make a critical difference in helping educators access quality training. “I’m pleased to accept the NEA’s endorsement of this bill,” Reichert said. “Today, school districts across the country are dealing with budget cuts, and our teachers are left to pick up the slack. This legislation would help ease the burden for those educators who accept the responsibility to guide our children’s education and purchase needed classroom supplies out of their own pockets. I’m committed to standing with our teachers by increasing and expanding this tax relief, and I thank the NEA for its vital support.” "We are proud to work with educators to provide the classroom resources and continuing-education opportunities that can help our young people be successful in school and after graduation," Congressman Tanner said. "Our teachers play a crucial role in our communities and in our economic security, and this is another way we can express our appreciation and support." Background The classroom expense deduction available for teachers is set to expire on December 31, 2009. This has created unnecessary uncertainty for teachers throughout the country, who daily are footing the bill for basic classroom supplies. The National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year, educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752. Additionally, a National Education Association report, Status of the American Public School Teacher 2000-2001, revealed that teachers spent an average of $443 per year on classroom supplies. Additionally, teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our teachers and our children.
11.16.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today in response to the President’s announcement that the United States will participate in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations: "With this announcement, the President positively indicates that he is placing emphasis on trade with an important region of the globe. I'm encouraged by the desire to engage the Asia-Pacific, a region of vital importance to the economy of the Pacific Northwest. The TPP brings an opportunity for the United States and other nations to engage in trade across critical sectors of our economy, and will help create jobs here in the United States. One way to show our commitment to trade in the Pacific is to pass the South Korea Free Trade Agreement, which has languished for too long." # # #
11.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement in observance of Veterans’ Day: “Today we honor all those men and women who serve and have served to protect and defend freedom, security and our great nation. This year, Veterans’ Day falls so soon after a brutal attack; even as we reserve time to honor our veterans, our nation mourns those men and women killed last week at Fort Hood, and we hold those families close in thought. We also remember those today who have lost loved ones in combat this year; your sacrifices and those of our brave service members will never be forgotten. “Our nation enjoys freedom and liberty because of the great sacrifice, dedication, and determination of our veterans and their families; today we salute them. And while our country has set aside a specific day to recognize our veterans, we should thank them each and every day. Our gratitude can never measure up to their sacrifice, but we will never forget everything they do to ensure our safety and security.”
11.10.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after The Boeing Company confirmed they would move a second production line to South Carolina: “Washington State remains home to thousands of aerospace workers, including 22,000 Boeing employees in my district. We will continue to support them and the policies to sustain and grow, but I’m disappointed in today’s announcement, and that union and labor management could not come together in agreement for their workers. This is a loss for both local job growth and our state’s economy.” # # #
11.07.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted against a health care overhaul that would implement a government-run health plan estimated to cost more than $1.3 trillion, while drastically slashing Medicare benefits, forcing tax increases on millions of Americans and small businesses, and also threatening to take away their current health plans. The measure narrowly passed the House by a vote of 220-215. “We heard yesterday’s announcement that unemployment eclipsed 10 percent, yet instead of focusing on measures to put Americans back to work, today the House passed a health care overhaul that will cost more jobs, raises taxes on families, small businesses, and seniors, and takes away freedoms,” said Reichert. “This bill permits government interference in patients’ health decisions and requires every American to purchase a government-approved health plan, pay a fine, or go to jail. We must work together on real solutions that begin to bring down the cost of health care and bring it to those who need it most.” Prior to passage, Congressman Reichert helped lead the fight to recoup cuts to Medicare benefits and enact true medical liability reform. “Tonight, in the last chance to amend the bill, I was proud to fight for our seniors. I am disappointed that the House rejected the measure that would protect seniors from drastic cuts to Medicare and stop expensive lawsuits that increase the cost of health care for every American. It’s my hope that Congress shelves this bill and instead focuses on bipartisan solutions like new tax assistance, enacting real medical liability reform, and allowing people to buy insurance across state lines to make health care more affordable and accessible for American families.” To address concerns of job losses associated with the bill, Reichert again offered an amendment to exempt small businesses from the bill’s proposed penalty tax should it cause them to freeze hiring, cut pay, or order layoffs. The amendment was not permitted to be considered. Reichert supported alternative legislation today that focuses on lowering the cost of health care premiums for families and small businesses, increasing access to affordable, high-quality care, and promoting healthier lifestyles – without adding to the national debt. For more information on Congressman Reichert’s solutions for health care, including his work during the House Ways and Means Committee debate on this health care legislation, visit https://reichert.house.gov/HealthCare. Link to motion to recommit speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tWSmFBdHjyY Link to floor speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9264h16tUFY Link to appearance on MSNBC: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f-5pmzz9uH0 # # #
11.06.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released this statement today following the announcement of October’s unemployment numbers: “Not since 1983 has the unemployment rate eclipsed 10 percent. Families are hurting and continuing to struggle, and the stimulus bill has so far proven ineffective in creating jobs. Congress must take bipartisan action on solutions with a proven track record of creating jobs, including broad-based tax relief, opening new markets through trade, and targeted infrastructure investments, not more reckless government spending on the backs of our grandchildren. “Getting Americans back to work must be the absolute, number one priority. This is especially critical to Washington State in light of the recent announcement of the second Boeing 787 line going to South Carolina. Yet instead of considering policies to jumpstart our economy, Congress is debating a health care proposal that will cost $1.3 trillion, running our country farther into debt while also taxing small businesses. The last thing Congress should contemplate during these difficult economic times is raising taxes on those with a proven record of creating new jobs. To do so would only cloud our future with greater uncertainty.” Background: According to recovery.gov, the Eighth Congressional District in Washington State has only had 175 jobs created due to the stimulus. Earlier this year, the White House projected that 75,000 jobs would be created in Washington State as a direct result of the stimulus law. According to state payroll employment data through the end of September, Washington has instead lost 65,900 jobs, and 49 states and the District of Columbia have also seen job losses – not gains, with more than 3 million jobs lost nationwide since the stimulus began. In fact, the Associated Press has reported the President’s own economic advisor recently said that the stimulus would soon likely be contributing little to further growth. # # #
11.05.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement following AARP’s announcement of its official endorsement of Speaker Pelosi’s health care overhaul bill which includes $500 billion in drastic Medicare cuts: “AARP today shows its true colors to the membership it claims to serve. This endorsement is an insult to seniors who depend on this organization to look out for their best interests. The bill AARP endorses today not only makes drastic cuts to Medicare, but it also could place burdensome taxes on wheelchairs, pacemakers, and hearing aids. How, in good conscience, could this be something AARP supports? “I’m disappointed that while AARP endorses a bill that slashes benefits of its members, its representatives still refuse to honestly answer my questions about its profit motives and how it stands to financially benefit from this bill. I urge seniors everywhere to share their feelings with AARP on the organization’s disturbing announcement today.” Background: On September 21, Reichert asked AARP to explain its support for the health care overhaul bill that would cut Medicare benefits, affecting millions of seniors. In public statements and a July meeting with Congressman Reichert, AARP advocated for H.R. 3200, which contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts. Hundreds of constituents have written Reichert expressing their concerns with the proposed Medicare cuts. AARP responded but did not adequately address Reichert’s inquiry. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicts that 3 million seniors will lose their Medicare health plan coverage and 3 million fewer seniors will enroll in such a plan if H.R. 3200 becomes law. CBO has also predicted the policies contained in H.R. 3200 “could lead many plans to limit the benefits they offer, raise their premiums, or withdraw from the program.” On October 1, AARP responded to Reichert’s inquiry. Because their response failed to answer the questions in his letter, Reichert sent a second letter to clarify lingering questions. AARP's response was again inadequate, therefore Reichert agreed to meet with AARP representatives on November 17. # # #
11.03.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today expressed concern regarding AARP’s latest response to his inquiry into the potential hidden profit motive behind the organization’s vocal advocacy for a House health care proposal that contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts affecting millions of seniors. “I've reviewed AARP’s response defending their support for cuts to Medicare, and I am simply disappointed,” Reichert said. “Though AARP promises to represent seniors’ interests ‘in ways that are affordable and beneficial to them,’ they continue to dodge simple, straightforward questions -- questions about supporting cuts to member benefits, raising costs, and reducing choice for its members. I’m looking forward to meeting with them; perhaps this face-to-face discussion will shed some light on their support for this proposal." Background: On September 21, Reichert asked AARP to explain its support for the health care overhaul bill that would cut Medicare benefits, affecting millions of seniors. In public statements and a July meeting with Congressman Reichert, AARP advocated for H.R. 3200, which contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts. Hundreds of constituents have written Reichert expressing their concerns with the proposed Medicare cuts. AARP responded but did not adequately address Reichert’s inquiry. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicts that 3 million seniors will lose their Medicare health plan coverage and 3 million fewer seniors will enroll in such a plan if H.R. 3200 becomes law. CBO has also predicted the policies contained in H.R. 3200 “could lead many plans to limit the benefits they offer, raise their premiums, or withdraw from the program.” On October 1, AARP responded to Reichert’s inquiry. Because their response failed to answer the questions in his letter, Reichert sent a second letter to clarify lingering questions. AARP's response was again inadequate, therefore Reichert agreed to meet with AARP representatives on November 17. # # #
11.02.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today after Speaker Pelosi unveiled the latest version of the House Democrat health care overhaul bill: “As I continue to review Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill released this morning, I’ve found it still contains many major, troubling provisions. It allows the government to take over the health care system, it raises taxes on hard working Americans, families, and small businesses, and it includes deep cuts to Medicare benefits for millions of seniors. That is not right. It even includes new taxes on medical devices: it would tax wheelchairs, heart monitors, and hearing aids. How can that be the right thing to do? Yes, we need to make health care more affordable, more accessible, and of better quality, but we can do that without taxing families and businesses and without cutting benefits.” # # #
10.28.2009	The House of Representatives today unanimously passed Congressman Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) legislation to designate the first week of October as “Celebrate Safe Communities” Week (CSC) and to recognize October as “Crime Prevention Month.” The measure recognizes these initiatives and promotes public safety outreach and awareness. “I’m pleased that the House has chosen to recognize these important community efforts, because safety and crime prevention require our continued vigilance,” Reichert said. “We see that some of our cities and local communities across the country are experiencing increases in violence, and this has an impact on day-to-day living. Fear of crime affects our decisions: where to go in public, what neighborhoods to visit -- even where we shop for goods and services. By engaging the community with efforts such as Celebrate Safe Communities Week, critical connections to deter and prevent violence can be made between members of law enforcement and the communities they serve and protect.” Held at the beginning of October each year, CSC Week highlights crime-prevention efforts, enhances public awareness of vital safety messages, and recruits year-round support for ongoing prevention activities. This year, 94 CSC community initiatives were conducted in 34 states plus the District of Columbia, assisting communities in organizing safety-focused events. CSC activities throughout the country – held in October to coincide with Crime Prevention Month – help Americans of all ages recognize that a safer community is no accident; crime prevention is the business of every citizen, every day of the year. CSC helps to serve as a catalyst for such programs as DARE; Citizen Police Academies; Bike rodeos; and youth crime watches in schools throughout the year. CSC also helps to encourage people to participate and volunteer at their local police departments/sheriff’s offices throughout the year. “Celebrate Safe Communities” (CSC) is in its second year and is a collaboration between the National Sheriffs Association (NSA) and the National Crime Prevention Council (NCPC), and is supported by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA). *Note: Congressman Reichert spoke on his resolution on the House Floor today. The video can be found here. # # #
10.28.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today introduced legislation that would enhance government transparency, allowing Americans greater access to each and every vote their representative takes – not only those taken on the floor of the House. The proposal, House Resolution 874, would require each of the 21 standing Committees in the U.S. House of Representatives to post record votes on their websites within 48 hours. “The American people deserve to know how their representatives vote in all cases, and frankly, in the current information age it makes no sense that we’re not already providing this service,” Reichert said. “Now more than ever, when we're debating a trillion-dollar health overhaul, constituents deserve to know how legislation takes shape – throughout the entire process. Government transparency is the key to a healthy, thriving democracy, and by using the existing official committee websites, we can offer this information in a way that’s fiscally responsible and easy for people to find.” “The American people deserve to know how their elected representatives vote in committee on the issues that matter to them,” said Republican Leader John Boehner (R, OH-08). “Dave Reichert’s resolution will make that possible by requiring committees to post members’ votes online within 48 hours of any committee vote. This is a common-sense reform that should have been adopted a long time ago in Congress. I’m pleased to support the Reichert resolution, and I’m calling on Speaker Pelosi to schedule it for an immediate vote.” Background: To address the inequity that exists with regard to taxpayer access to such information, H.Res. 874, is an additional component of Congressman Reichert’s recently introduced Common Cents Agenda. A variety of legislation constitutes this initiative which is targeted to ensure government is transparent and accountable to taxpayers. For example, providing a full picture of members’ support or opposition to a proposal would have revealed that during the debate on the trillion-dollar government-run health care overhaul, 38 amendments were considered in House Ways and Means Committee, but 0 passed. Posting votes on official Committee websites, then, is a fiscally responsible transparency measure that would provide constituents a critical view of what their Member supports at every point in the legislative process. # # #
10.21.2009	Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, and Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) have called on the Departments of Commerce and Interior to provide critical weather forecasting and river monitoring resources from the National Weather Service and the U.S. Geological Survey to address the flood threat posed by structural damage to the Howard Hanson Dam, in a letter sent yesterday afternoon. The representatives urged Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to provide additional resources that may improve the accuracy of weather models and provide better data to local officials and the Corps as they work to minimize the threat of flooding. “This is about utilizing all available tools in order to take every possible precaution,” said Senator Murray. “This additional monitoring equipment can play an important role in providing the early and accurate warnings we’ll need to best protect homes, businesses, and residents in the event of a flood in the Green River Valley.” “Washington State experiences some of the worst weather in the nation, yet it has the worst weather radar coverage of any U.S. coastline,” said Senator Cantwell. “While I have been able to secure funding for a new Doppler Radar on the Washington Coast the additional tools we are requesting today could help Army Corps of Engineers better manage water flows on the Green River valley. Given that homes, businesses, and communities are at stake, we need to do everything possible to help deal with this winter’s storm season.” “Flood season is rapidly approaching, and the Corps needs every possible tool at its disposal to avert disaster,” Reichert said. “We are all working together to protect our citizens and their property, and having the most advanced radar systems, precipitation gauges, and technologically advanced infrastructure possible will assist us in mitigating a flood event that could wreak havoc throughout our region.” “In the event of a flood, it is vitally important that we make decisive, data driven decisions to mobilize our resources in the most effective and timely way possible,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In order to do this, we must have the most accurate and up-to-date information at our disposal. These additional tools will help provide that information and allow authorities to make more informed decisions and better coordinate their efforts to prevent and mitigate flooding damage.” Specifically, the representatives requested the following: · Additional Gauges With Telemetry – That the U.S. Geological Survey install additional precipitation gauges and gauges to measure flows into the Howard Hanson Dam in order to assist the Corps in deciding when and how much water to release; · Relocations of Mobile Doppler Weather Radar Systems – That the National Weather Service relocate the Experimental Atmospheric River System (ARO) to Washington State this fall to enhance weather forecasting capabilities that inform Corps decisions about operations at the Howard Hanson Dam; and, · Modeling and Computer Programming Staff and Technology – Additional staffing resources and technology would be beneficial in the event of a storm at regional National Weather Service (NWS) and Northwest River Forecasting Center (NWRFC) to update and fine tune forecasting models for the Green River Basin. The representatives have requested these agencies shift additional resources to the Northwest this fall to assist the Corps in making critical operational decisions related to the dam. Additionally, a meeting was requested with the respective agencies within Commerce and Interior departments to discuss these items and any additional resources that may be available. BACKGROUND: For more than 40 years, the Howard Hanson Dam, a major flood protection facility operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Green River levees in King County, Washington, have provided effective flood control and protection. Following record rainfall in January 2009, damage to an abutment adjacent to the Dam diminished the maximum water capacity that can be safely held by the Dam. As the Army Corps of Engineers works to assess and repair the damage, cities located within the Green River Valley were notified of a scenario that may require the intentional release of more water than usual during extreme rain events. This has the potential to result in catastrophic flooding that could affect tens of thousands of individuals. King County officials are preparing plans to evacuate up to 5,000 people; some estimates show the potential for lost economic output of $46 million per day and up to $2 billion in property damage. Click here to read the letter.
10.15.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, providing key resources to law enforcement and intelligence agencies including: $950 million for grants used to plan, equip and train local first responders to respond to terrorist attacks; $300 million for port security grants to enhance risk management capabilities; and $50 million for interoperable communications to help firefighters and emergency responders talk to each other during a crisis. “We must continue to ensure our law enforcement and intelligence agencies have every tool at their disposal to protect our homeland for the ongoing terrorist threat,” Reichert said. “I supported this measure because the security of our country is served by supplying key resources to those on the front lines of homeland defense. That said, I am deeply troubled and disappointed by the language added to this bill that weakens our ability to keep suspected terrorists in Guantanamo Bay, where they belong. “We make difficult choices every day as legislators, but I can’t help but note the contradiction in today’s actions,” Reichert continued. “We vote to provide tools to protect our homeland, and then some feel it’s appropriate to weaken public safety by including a measure that brings a threat closer to our homes and communities? That should not be the case. That’s why prior to the final vote, I voted to remove this controversial provision in the bill. In addition, earlier this year I supported a bill that opposes the transfer of detainees to U.S. soil, requiring the Administration meet criteria and standards regarding detainee transfer and ensuring that governors and state legislatures pre-approve the release of a detainee to their respective states. I am determined to continue this fight.” In addition to providing vital tools for law enforcement, the bill includes Reichert-secured funding of $750,000 for flood mitigation in the North Bend area. With flood season approaching, Reichert supports providing these resources that would support efforts to elevate homes in high risk flood areas to prevent property damage and loss. In past years, severe and repetitive flooding has devastated the homes of families throughout the North Bend area, and Reichert has played a key role in advocating for these critical public safety resources. # # #
10.15.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today sent a second letter to AARP to explore their response to his first letter, in a move to expand his inquiry into the organization’s vocal advocacy for H.R. 3200, a proposal that contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts, including $156 billion in cuts to Medicare plans that will affect 14 million seniors – including 14,000 in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District. “I have reviewed AARP’s response to my initial letter regarding their support for H.R. 3200, and serious questions remain regarding their advocacy for this proposal that would slash member health benefits,” Reichert said. “I am also concerned about the conflict of interest that may exist between that support and what AARP stands to gain from the sale of Medigap insurance plans. I have directed additional questions to further clarify this issue on behalf of my constituents, and I look forward to AARP’s prompt response. At bottom, my inquiry is intended to determine whether AARP is being honest with America’s seniors, and whether any hidden motive exists in the form of financial or other benefits to the organization for its support for this legislation.” The full text of the letter follows. Background: On September 21, Reichert sent a letter to AARP requesting that it explain its support for the health care overhaul bill that would cut Medicare benefits, affecting millions of their members. In public statements and a July meeting with Congressman Reichert, AARP advocated for H.R. 3200, which contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts. Hundreds of constituents have written Reichert expressing their concerns with the proposed Medicare cuts. AARP responded but did not adequately address Reichert’s inquiry. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicts that 3 million seniors will lose their Medicare health plan coverage and 3 million fewer seniors will enroll in such a plan if H.R. 3200 becomes law. CBO has also predicted the policies contained in H.R. 3200 “could lead many plans to limit the benefits they offer, raise their premiums, or withdraw from the program.” On October 1, AARP responded to Reichert’s inquiry. Following review of this information, today Reichert sent a second letter to clarify lingering questions.Thomas C. Nelson Chief Operating Officer AARP 601 E Street NW Washington, DC 20049 Dear Mr. Nelson: Thank you for your recent response to my questions regarding AARP’s support for current health care proposals. Though I appreciate your prompt reply, I found that many of the answers failed to directly answer my questions about the potential conflict of interest in AARP’s advocacy for a bill that cuts billions of dollars from seniors’ Medicare benefits, and I would like to take this opportunity for follow-up and clarification. You say that “AARP does not have access to which Medicare-eligible members are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan.” It concerns me that you are strongly advocating for cuts to a program when you have no idea the extent to which these cuts will harm your membership. Please explain, in detail, your advocacy for HR 3200 in light of your lack of information regarding the number of members the bill will affect. I also find it problematic given that, according to AARP’s most recent financial statements, “Insurance premiums collected by the Plan [AARP Insurance Plan] are paid directly by participants.” After taking AARP’s slice of the premiums, the Plan then distributes the monies to the appropriate insurance carriers. As AARP acts as the intermediary for collecting and paying insurance premiums on behalf of its members, how is it possible that AARP does not have access to which of its members are enrolled in Medicare Advantage? You state: “AARP is not an insurance company,” yet 38 percent of your annual total operating revenue came from United HealthCare. Comparatively, only 23 percent of your total operating revenue came from membership dues. AARP makes nearly twice as much from insurance premiums as is does from membership dues. All told, royalties represent 60 percent of AARP’s operating revenue. This clearly shows that AARP is an organization dependent on insurance funds. If you are not an insurance company, as you claim, why are you collecting and holding premiums? Regarding AARP’s royalty income, you provided the average income from 1999 through 2008. Please provide the royalty income received for each individual year, breaking out the portion of income that is derived from AARP-branded Medicare Advantage plans, and then separately, the Medigap plans for each of those years. I suspect that we will see a significant increase in royalties received in recent years over those in 1999. In a recent news article in The News Tribune, David Sloane, AARP’s Chief Lobbyist stated AARP “would gladly forgo every dime of revenue to fix the health care system.” While I certainly applaud that statement, how can AARP continue to do business with a loss of at least $339.7 million in revenue each year? In addition, you state that “whether private insurance plans choose to change their current benefit packages upon passage of a health reform bill is a business decision they will have to make.” Will AARP continue to lend the AARP brand to – and collect royalty payments from – plans that increase premiums, increase cost-sharing, decrease benefit options, or eliminate Medicare Advantage plans should the Medicare Advantage cuts included in health care legislation that you support go into effect? Furthermore, Bloomberg News has reported that many AARP members have found insurance plans cheaper than AARP-endorsed insurance products. You are advocating cuts to Medicare Advantage plans in order to bring payments in line with traditional Medicare. Please explain why AARP-sponsored plans are more expensive than others. While I can only hope it is because AARP is providing its members with additional benefits – similar to what Medicare Advantage plans provide their beneficiaries – I would appreciate specific details. Finally, AARP has strongly advocated for health reform legislation to close the “doughnut hole” in the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. I have conducted research through the Medicare Plan Finder on www.medicare.gov which showed that not a single AARP-endorsed plan offered coverage for brand name drugs when beneficiaries have exceeded the minimum coverage limit and have not yet reached the catastrophic coverage threshold. Is this accurate? If not, what percentage of AARP-endorsed plans offer this coverage? Finally, AARP has strongly advocated for health reform legislation to close the “doughnut hole” in the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. I would like you to confirm that 100 percent of AARP-endorsed plans provide coverage when beneficiaries have exceeded the minimum coverage limit and have not yet reached the catastrophic coverage threshold. Thank you for your prompt attention to these follow-up questions and comments. Should you have any questions, you may contact Beth Nelson in my office (beth.nelson@mail.house.gov or 202-225-7761). # # #
10.14.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced the launch of a resource webpage for constituents regarding the flooding threat in the Green River Valley. The site includes information on flood preparedness, flood-related links to pertinent organizations, including the Army Corps of Engineers, King County, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and news section specifically related to the issue at the Howard Hanson Dam and in the Green River Valley. “Sharing information is critical to prepare the area for any potential disaster situation,” said Reichert. “A long-term fix is necessary, but as this work is completed we must stay prepared in the near-term. By utilizing the web, we can share up-to-date information that is useful to those living in the area, and interested in the issue.” Congressman Reichert is working in conjunction with local, state, and federal officials on measures to bolster preparedness in the Valley, and also to ensure that the resources of the federal government are utilized in both short-term and long-term efforts. MORE: Congressional Delegation Urges U.S. Army Corps to Focus on Howard Hanson Dam Reichert, Smith Call for FEMA Exercise in Green River Valley Western WA Congressional Delegation Calls on Army Corps to Move Quickly on Howard Hanson Dam Fix Reichert Statement on Flooding Preparedness in the Green River Valley # # #
10.14.2009	Today, Congressman Adam Smith, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, and Congressman Dave Reichert sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, requesting that he personally visit Howard Hanson Dam and the Green River Valley to gain a firsthand perspective of the critical need for both long- and short-term flood mitigation solutions. In addition to requesting a visit from U.S. Army Corps leadership, the Members also wrote in the letter: “We are very appreciative of the $3.4 million that was granted in response to the Advance Measures request….The situation on the ground can change rapidly and we insist you preposition or identify ready sources of all necessary materials and equipment to respond as vigorously as possible to changing conditions. We continue to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to work diligently to find additional resources to help protect the valley against increased risks of flooding and be ready to aggressively flood fight.” Members of the Congressional delegation are sending this letter to make sure that the increased risk of flooding and the Howard Hanson Dam repairs remain at the top of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ priority list. The delegation also wants to ensure that the Corps’ continues to work closely with the state and local entities to mitigate the impacts on the Green River Valley and assist in ongoing flood protection. Full text of the letter is below: Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp U.S. Army Chief of Engineers and Commanding General U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G. Street, NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, We write to express our continued concern about the effectiveness of Howard Hanson Dam and the increased flood risk to the Green River Valley. Additionally, we respectfully request that you personally visit Howard Hanson Dam and the Green River Valley to gain a firsthand perspective of the critical need for both long- and short-term flood mitigation solutions. We are very appreciative of the $3.4 million that was granted in response to the Advance Measures request submitted by Colonel Anthony Wright, the Commander of the Seattle District on September 12. This funding will help to provide sand bags and technical assistance for approximately 8.2 miles of affected levees along the Green River and increase the flood protection of those most vulnerable areas. The assistance and support of Colonel Wright and the Seattle District, who have been working closely with elected officials and emergency managers from all affected levels of government, continues to be appreciated. The situation on the ground can change rapidly and we insist you preposition or identify ready sources of all necessary materials and equipment to respond as vigorously as possible to changing conditions. We continue to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to work diligently to find additional resources to help protect the valley against increased risks of flooding and be ready to aggressively flood fight. As the Green River Valley communities will continue to face an increased flood risk over the next several years, we ask that you move swiftly to design, engineer, and fund the necessary repairs for Howard Hanson Dam. We appreciate the USACE's efforts to quickly implement interim repairs and study permanent solutions, and ask that you work with us to ensure this work can continue at a rapid pace. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to your response.
10.09.2009	In keeping with President Barack Obama’s call for a cleaner world and a greener economy, U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-8), joined by Ways and Means colleague U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA-8) today introduced the Plastics Recycling Act of 2009. “This legislation provides an incentive for investors to support advanced recycling business ventures,” said Pascrell, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “By providing a tax credit for the amount of material created from discarded plastics, we will foster the growth of these small businesses throughout New Jersey and throughout the country and create jobs in the new economy.” “This is an important new incentive to encourage small businesses to turn waste into new energy resources,” said Reichert, the lead Republican supporting the bill. “It is a means for us to create jobs and advance new energy solutions while simultaneously improving our stewardship of the environment.” Pascrell and Reichert designed the bill (H.R. 3592) to provide small, domestic advanced recycling plants an annual tax credit of 60 cents per gallon of qualified synthetic oil made from plastic separated from the waste stream during a tax year. The synthetic oil can then be used to manufacture clean diesel, lubricants and waxes. The tax credit is intended to attract investment in these small businesses that will provide jobs, and also save taxpayers’ money. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that Americans create 31 million tons of plastic waste every year, yet less than 10 percent is recycled. The remaining 28 million tons are dumped into the nation’s landfills. Communities, particularly in New Jersey, pay high “tipping fees” at the landfills each year resulting in wasted dollars paid to bury usable plastic. Even though Americans have been diligent in recycling soda bottles, water bottles and milk jugs, these items make up less than 10 percent of plastic waste, according to the EPA. Clean-running advanced recycling technologies can allow a greater majority of plastic waste to be re-used. Because the plastic waste is locally generated, advanced recycling plants are able to be located all over the country in order to be close to the raw materials. Therefore, new job opportunities could be brought almost anywhere in the nation. ###
10.08.2009	Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Representatives Charles Boustany (R-LA), David Dreier (R-CA), Wally Herger (R-CA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) commented on the "Buy American" obligations in the stimulus, which appear to be having a clogging, rather than priming, effect on U.S. economic recovery: “In this economy, where every job matters, it’s essential lawmakers examine the consequences of the expanded 'Buy American' language which was hastily inserted in the stimulus bill and rushed through Congress without a thoughtful, bipartisan review,” said Brady. “This public roundtable is prompted by published reports that this provision has delayed critical stimulus projects, increased costs to local and state entities, and invited retaliation by foreign governments that could impair the ability of American companies to sell their products and services. It appears this provision, while popular, has proven problematic and job damaging rather than job creating,” Brady continued. “There’s a reasonable solution here, which is for OMB to issue final guidance that exempts states and localities from these onerous provisions,” he concluded. “Government contracts that support good-paying American jobs and keep American small businesses afloat often involve at least a minor amount of foreign activity,” said Boustany. “That some of those contracts are now endangered, rather than secured, by these 'Buy American' provisions runs counter to the stated goals of the stimulus bill and other recent efforts by the federal government – namely, to save and create American jobs and to extend a lifeline to American businesses until the economy turns around,” said Boustany. "There is broad diversity of opinion on the issue of 'Buy American', but there can be no question that the provisions in the so-called stimulus bill were so poorly crafted that they are having precisely the opposite effect of the stated goal of the stimulus - they are slowing and even halting projects, increasing costs and shutting out American companies from the bidding process. They are also inviting retaliation from our closest trading partners, which hurts American exports and threatens American jobs. This is just one example of the unintended consequences when legislation is rushed to a vote without proper scrutiny," said Dreier. “It’s not very surprising that the ‘Buy American’ provisions included in the so-called stimulus have been counterproductive and slowed economic recovery. Although these provisions are well intentioned, they are taking a toll on U.S. companies, putting jobs at risk and increasing costs to taxpayers by piling on unnecessary project delays. I’m hopeful that Congress will recognize these concerns and avoid enacting measures in the future that undermine the competitiveness of U.S. businesses and workers by restricting trade. We could do significantly more to foster economic growth and create jobs through opening markets to U.S. goods and services than by trying to keep foreign products out,” said Herger. “Buying locally is important, and when trade policy is crafted right, we can help American businesses compete in the global economy,” said Reichert. “But 'Buy American' provisions hastily crafted in the stimulus bill can strain relationships with important partners like Canada and cost American jobs, as U.S. companies with global supply chains are excluded from federal projects. Opening new markets to trade is a stimulus that must not be overlooked. Free trade plays a vital role in growing our economy and creating jobs, and we must continue to promote and support policies that allow our business to thrive and grow in a global economy.” ###
10.08.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman John Tanner (TN-08) today introduced H.R. 3758, the Teacher Tax Relief Act, a proposal that would both increase and make permanent the maximum tax deduction available for teachers purchasing classroom supplies – while expanding the deduction to include expenses associated with qualified professional development pursuits. “Our teachers accept a serious responsibility – educating our children and helping them develop into successful citizens so they can become the leaders of tomorrow,” Reichert said. “School districts across the country are dealing with budget cuts, and our teachers are left to pick up the slack, paying for basic supplies such as paper, pencils, glue, and scissors, out of their own pockets. They’ve stepped up to the plate because they’re committed to providing students the best education possible. It is important – especially in these difficult economic times – to stand with our teachers, demonstrating our commitment to them by expanding this tax relief to encourage continuing education pursuits and removing any uncertainty by making it permanent.” "Educators have the important responsibility of helping our young people prepare for the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead," Congressman Tanner said. "We must ensure they have the resources to help our students be successful and that they have opportunities to continue their own professional development. We are proud to work toward the permanent deduction of instructors' out-of-pocket costs so they will not be penalized for doing all they can to continue providing quality education for the next generation of our nation's leaders." Specifically this legislation would amend the Internal Revenue Code to increase and make permanent the maximum deduction allowed from $250 to $500 and expanding it to include qualified professional development expenses. Background The classroom expense deduction available for teachers is set to expire on December 31, 2009. This has created unnecessary uncertainty for teachers throughout the country, who daily are footing the bill for basic classroom supplies. The National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year, educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752. Additionally, a National Education Association report, Status of the American Public School Teacher 2000-2001, revealed that teachers spent an average of $443 per year on classroom supplies. Additionally, teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our teachers and our children. # # #
10.08.2009	This week, Representatives Ginny Brown-Waite (FL-05), Pat Tiberi (OH-12) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced H.R. 3691; The Seniors and Veterans Economic Stimulus (SAVES) Act of 2009. If passed, this bill would use unobligated funds from the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to provide Social Security recipients and veterans with a $250 check in 2010. This check would help to offset rising out of pocket expenses which they may not have been able to cover because Congress has not addressed a cost of living adjustment (COLA) for 2010. After dropping the bill, Congresswoman Brown-Waite made the following statement: “More and more our seniors and veterans are called on to shoulder the burden of our struggling economy. They need a COLA adjustment that reflects the reality of what they confront at the grocery store and the doctor’s office. “This bill gives our seniors and veterans a break: one that they truly deserve. I call on this Congress and President Obama to recognize the need for these checks and move quickly to get them in the mail as soon as possible.” Congressman Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue added, “In this time, with the state of this economy, it’s simply not right that seniors and veterans won’t receive a cost of living increase. Their everyday costs will certainly continue to rise and it’s my hope that this payment will help them make ends meet when they pay their healthcare, electric, or gas bills”. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) followed saying, “Supporting seniors and veterans in their hour of need is a responsible use of stimulus dollars,” said Reichert. “Rather than further increasing the deficit or squandering “stimulus” dollars on wasteful projects like repairing casino sidewalks, we should dedicate needed funds to provide a cost of living boost for those who need it most.”? ###
10.08.2009	Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) this week introduced legislation to continue federal tax benefits to volunteer firefighters and other emergency responders. Tax incentives help state and local governments attract and retain volunteer first responders, who serve approximately 38 percent of our country’s population and save American tax payers roughly $40 billion a year with their service, according to the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC). In 2007, Congress passed a measure exempting from taxation certain benefits (up to $360 per year) for volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel. In the almost two years since this legislation was signed into law, these benefit protections have proven to be a tremendous help for volunteer emergency responders and the communities that rely on their service. Unless Congress acts, these benefit protections for volunteer first responders will expire next year. Congresswoman Baldwin and Congressman Reichert’s bill, the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3666), extends the ability of volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel to exempt taxable benefits provided by state and local units of government until 2013, and increases the annual cap to $600. “Volunteer firefighters and emergency responders provide an invaluable service to their communities and the American people,” said Congresswoman Baldwin. “I am pleased to lead legislation with Congressman Reichert that will benefit these brave Americans, and will encourage volunteer service across the country,” Baldwin said. (more) “As a former first responder, I understand the perils and risks that they take each day to do their job of protecting our communities,” said Reichert, who sits on the House Ways and Means Committee. “Encouraging volunteer service through tax relief of this nature is critical to the safety of our citizens, as many communities do not have enough resources to confront the challenges they face. So I enthusiastically join Congresswoman Baldwin in working to preserve benefits for these volunteers. Each day, they put their lives on the line to serve others, and this is a great step Congress can take to show our gratitude to each of them,” Reichert said. “In order to retain and recruit volunteers, many state and local governments across the country provide them with modest benefits. Federal taxation of these benefits diminishes their incentive value and discourages communities from offering benefits of any type,” NVFC Chairman and Wisconsin State Director Philip C. Stittleburg said. “I would like to thank Congresswoman Baldwin and Congressman Reichert for introducing this important legislation to extend tax exemptions on benefits provided to volunteer emergency responders by state and local units of government,” said Stittleburg. “The majority of fire service personnel in [the state of] Washington are volunteers, and the majority of fire service personnel who protect the significant population, land mass size and critical infrastructure of Washington are volunteers,” added Fire Chief John Sinclair, International Association of Fire Chiefs Board Member and Emergency Manager of the Kittitas Valley Fire & Rescue in Ellensburg, Washington. “They perform these tasks with little to no compensation. Representative's Reichert and Baldwin's bill affords volunteers this one small payback, not by compensating for their heroism, bravery or time, but by honoring their service to our communities. I thank Representative's Reichert and Baldwin for their continued support of America's volunteer fire service,” Sinclair said. The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee. ###
10.06.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he is hosting a Veterans’ Resource Fair this Saturday, October 10, 2009, from 9 a.m. – noon in Puyallup. The event is open to all veterans, their families and other interested residents, and will be held at Ballou Junior High School, 9916 136th Street East. The Veterans’ Fair is conducted to acquaint veterans with benefits and services available to them. As Congressman Reichert’s first Veterans’ Resource Fair was organized, the format expanded to include an even broader array of veterans’ service and benefit providers. After several months of planning and the combined efforts of many, more than 350 veterans came together with more than 100 service providers representing 47 organizations in Bellevue on March 31, 2007, with a similar turnout for the second and third Veterans’ Resource Fairs in Auburn in September 2007 and Renton in May 2008. Because of those resounding successes, Reichert is again bringing organizations together to benefit veterans living in and around the Puyallup area. WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and all interested veterans and their families. Representatives from the following organizations: African American PTSD American Legion Post 161 AMVETS Disabled American Veterans Freedom Fighters Honor Flight Harborstone Credit Union Hire America's Heroes (Volt) Helmets to Hardhats Hopechest Hope Restorer’s Network (HRN) IBEW Local 46 Vice Program King County Housing Authority Madigan Army Medical Center- TBI Program Madigan Army Medical Center - Tri Care Military Order of the Purple Heart Northwest Justice Project Northwest Small Business Transportation Resource Center Quality Staffing Rebuilding Together South Sound RNR Oasis Seattle VA Hospital Social Security Administration- Puyallup St. Andrew's Housing Group Tacoma Vet Center Tahoma National Cemetery U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural Development U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development U.S. Department of Labor US Department of Labor Employee Benefits Security Administration U.S. General Services Administration, Small Business Utilization U.S. Small Business Administration Valley Cities Counseling Vets Meet Vets Veteran Family Fund of America Veterans and Friends Vietnam Veterans Leadership Group Vietnam Veterans of America Washington Committee of Employer Support of the Guard and the Reserve Washington Department of Veteran Affair Washington National Guard Washington State Department of Personnel Work Source Affiliate (Auburn) WHAT: An interactive fair for veterans and their families to discover and discuss benefits available to them from numerous participating organizations, ranging from health care services to financial assistance. WHEN: Saturday, October 10, 2009, 9 a.m. – noon WHERE: Ballou Junior High School 9916 136th St E Puyallup, WA 98373 Media are asked to RSVP and direct any questions to Abigail Shilling at 202-225-7761 or 206-484-1033 (cell). General questions about the event can be directed to Zack Guill in Congressman Reichert’s District Office at (206) 275-3438 or (877) 920-9208. # # #
10.01.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today lauded the passage of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which will provide more than $7.5 million in annual support for local infrastructure in Washington State for 2010. Reichert secured funding for two key flood control projects at the Mud Mountain Dam and for the Duwamish/Green Ecosystem Restoration program, among others. This legislation also awards the annual funding for the Army Corps of Engineers, which is charged with maintenance, improvement, and repair of the Howard Hanson Dam. “These projects both protect our natural resources and promote the use of clean energy,” Reichert said. “I’m also pleased to support the Army Corps, as a critical part of their mission in our district is to implement near-term repairs to the Howard Hanson Dam, while also conducting analysis and executing the long-term fix. This funding is critical to public safety and the protection of our citizens and their property.” Reichert obtained the following in the Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Report: Duwamish/Green Ecosystem Restoration Program - $2,600,000. This is a 14-year collaborative effort by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe, King County, 15 cities in the watershed, the City of Tacoma, and numerous public agency and non-governmental resource groups to provide critical environmental improvements, including assistance in the recovery of Endangered Species Act federally-listed Chinook salmon. Mud Mountain Dam (construction) - $400,000. This U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flood control dam on the White River will control floods in the lower White and Puyallup River valleys. The new dam will replace the 100-year old structure and enable the Corps to meet ongoing fish-passage needs for Mud Mountain dam. Mud Mountain Dam (operations and maintenance) - $3,056,000. This U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flood control dam on the White River will control floods in the lower White and Puyallup River valleys. The new dam will replace the 100-year old structure and enable the Corps to meet ongoing fish-passage needs for Mud Mountain dam. Issaquah Highlands Zero Energy Affordable Housing - $500,000. These funds will build a cutting edge, attached residential green building demonstration project which will be one of the most innovative green housing projects in the Pacific Northwest. The project involves the design, construction, and sale of 10 attached residential homes, built to an extremely green standard. University of Washington’s Center for Biofuels - $1,000,000. These funds will drive research and development to convert Washington mixed biomass sources into transportation fuels. The center is lacking critical equipment and lab facilities to do the comprehensive research that is necessary to design a commercial scale facility, and this financial support will help meet this need. # # #
09.30.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today celebrates the selection of Antioch Adoptions as a 2009 Angel in AdoptionTM for their outstanding advocacy of adoption and foster care. Reichert nominated the organization earlier this year to the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which orchestrates the Angels in Adoption™ program. Today CCAI will honor Antioch, along with more than 190 Angels, at an awards ceremony and gala event in Washington, DC. “I was pleased to nominate Antioch Adoptions, who provide support and care each day for expectant mothers and children, and am thrilled that CCAI has chosen to honor their service with the Angels in Adoption award,” said Reichert. “Antioch gives hope to so many children, individuals and families who would otherwise be lost without their support. I congratulate them on this award and commend them for the inspiring and life-saving work they do.” Antioch Adoptions has been serving adoptive families and foster children in Washington State since its establishment in 2000. It believes strongly in advocating for children who are in need of loving homes and is committed to raising awareness, both locally and nationally, about foster care and the children that desperately seek an adoptive family. Antioch provides numerous programs dedicated to adoptive families, birth families and the community as a whole, providing nurture and care to birth mothers as they consider the road they will take. The Angels in Adoption™ program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. “The Angels in Adoption program is unlike any other program in the Nation’s Capitol. Because of it, over 1400 “Angels’ have come to share with Washington their adoption experience and left with a renewed excitement of all that adoption makes possible,” said Kathleen Strottman, Executive Director of CCAI. “I learned one simple lesson from my time on the Hill: knowledge is power. Angels in Adoption is meant to give Members of Congress the knowledge they need to use the power they have toward making the dream of a family a reality for every child.” In addition to the more than 190 local angels from around the country, several National Angels will also be recognized at the ceremony and gala for their dedication and commitment nationally and internationally to child welfare on a grand scale. Former “National Angels” include First Lady Laura Bush, Patti LaBelle, Jane Seymour, Muhammad Ali, the late Dave Thomas, Steven Curtis Chapman, Bruce Willis, Alonzo Mourning, and Marcus Samuelsson. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is the elimination of the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. CCAI was created in 2001 by the active co-chairs of the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) to more effectively raise Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. # # #
09.25.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today joined together to call on FEMA to conduct a comprehensive emergency preparedness and response exercise to take place in the Green River Valley as it faces a high risk of flooding due to damage at the Howard Hanson Dam. The exercise would help to ensure preparation at all levels to address the personal and economic impact of potential flooding and storm damage. “With the critical situation facing the Green River Valley, a key component is to be prepared as we work for a long-term fix,” said Reichert. “I’m pleased to join with Congressman Adam Smith in this effort, as the threat expands to his congressional district. We must do all we can to protect our citizens and prevent property damage and loss.” “Our communities continue to face the possibility of significant flooding and we must do everything we can to protect them,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “In the short term, all necessary resources should be focused on shoring up any infrastructure vulnerabilities and ensuring there is a comprehensive emergency preparedness and response plan in place so we can react effectively in the event of a flood. Overall, while state and federal resources are being appropriated to mitigate and avoid flooding damages, individuals should also be taking precautions to protect themselves and their property.” In the letter to Mr. Fugate, the members state: As representatives of the two congressional districts with constituents directly impacted by a flood event, we ask that your agency conduct a simulated exercise to mitigate the potential for severe personal and economic loss and prepare all of the local, state, and federal agencies involved in emergency response for any scenario that may arise from a breach of the Dam or the release of excess water. Preparedness is essential for effective response, and your agency has the ability to help ensure the Green River Valley is ready in the event of flooding. FEMA’s assistance in establishing and facilitating effective emergency communications and response could result in lessening the damages of this potential disaster. The threat of flooding from winter storms and the reduced capacity of the Howard Hanson Dam is real, and it is imperative that all levels of government act swiftly and in full coordination to prepare and protect the citizens and the Green River Valley.
09.22.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) officially opened his new district office Wednesday as he hosted an open house to announce the office in Buckley, Washington. Wednesday was the official opening of the satellite office, which is intended to enhance constituent service and communications in southern King County and Pierce County, and will be open every Wednesday and served by a member of Congressman Reichert’s district staff, Zack Guill. Reichert was joined by Buckley Mayor Pat Johnson in the opening celebration. “It’s exciting to provide an additional location to serve those in the southern end of the Eighth District,” said Reichert. “We want to provide the best service possible and ensure that we are accessible to those who need us. By having an additional location, we are working to provide accessible constituent service to those not only in Buckley, but also the surrounding communities. My thanks to Buckley Mayor Pat Johnson for working with us to provide the space in the Multi-Purpose Center, and for joining today in the official opening of the office.” The office is located at 811 Main Street at the Multi-Purpose Center in Buckley, and will be open each Wednesday from 9 a.m. – 4 p.m. The office phone number is 206-498-8103. # # #
09.21.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today called on AARP to explain its support for the health care overhaul bill that would cut Medicare benefits, affecting millions of their members. In public statements and a July meeting with Congressman Reichert, AARP advocated for H.R. 3200, which contains nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts, including $156 billion in cuts to Medicare health plans that will affect 14 million seniors. Hundreds of constituents have written Reichert expressing their concerns with the proposed Medicare cuts. “I am deeply troubled about the cuts to Medicare in the current bill. I want to hear immediately from AARP to explain its position, because I just can’t understand how the leading voice for America’s seniors would support a bill that cuts $156 billion from millions of their members’ health benefits,” said Reichert. “Are they being honest with their members? Is there a hidden motive behind their support for these reforms that would cut member benefits? These are questions I posed to AARP directly earlier this year and now in writing. I expect a timely answer on behalf of our mutual constituents.” The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicts that 3 million seniors will lose their Medicare health plan coverage and 3 million fewer seniors will enroll in such a plan if H.R. 3200 becomes law. CBO has also predicted the policies contained in H.R. 3200 “could lead many plans to limit the benefits they offer, raise their premiums, or withdraw from the program.” The full text of the letter follows. A. Barry Rand Chief Executive Officer AARP 601 E Street NW Washington, DC 20049 Dear Mr. Rand: As the House of Representatives continues to debate health care reform, I am working to gather as much information as possible to best serve my constituents and seniors. I am surprised by your vocal support for legislation that severely cuts Medicare and limits many seniors’ choice of health benefits at a time in their life when they need more support and options, not less. I hope you can provide me with answers regarding what appears to be a direct conflict of interest in your advocacy for legislation that cuts the Medicare Advantage program in which 14 million seniors participate. Historically, AARP’s mission has been to enhance the quality of life for older Americans by delivering value to members through advocacy and service. However, I believe that it does a disservice to the millions of seniors you represent to support massive cuts to their Medicare Advantage health plans without disclosing the potential monetary benefit to AARP of seniors’ lost coverage resulting in the purchase of AARP-sponsored Medigap plans. For these reasons, I am seeking answers to the following questions, and request that you respond to my inquiry, in writing, by October 1: How many Medicare-eligible AARP members are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan? How many of these members are enrolled in an AARP branded Medicare Advantage plan? How many older Americans are enrolled in an AARP Medigap plan? Where do AARP branded Medigap plans rank, in terms of the total number of enrollees in each Medigap plan type A-L, nationally? What is the total financial value of payments, or other inducements, made to AARP over the last 10 years for each of the following insurance policy types? ·Medigap insurance polices; ·Medicare Advantage (or other Medicare Part C plans) insurance polices; ·Medicare Part D insurance policies; ·Life insurance policies; ·Long term care insurance policies; ·Personal health insurance plan policies; ·Dental insurance policies; ·Automobile insurance policies; ·Homeowner’s insurance policies; ·Lifetime income program policies; ·Mobile home insurance policies; ·Motorcycle insurance policies; ·Recreational vehicle insurance program policies; ·Pharmacy services; and ·Vision discounts. This includes license fees paid by AARP’s business partners including: United Healthcare, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York Life, Genworth Life Insurance Company, Delta Dental Insurance Company, The Hartford, Foremost, and EyeMed Vision Care, any subsidiaries of the aforementioned companies, for the purposes of using the AARP trademark for co-branding. What are the fees received by AARP for each Medicare Advantage plan sold, as well as Medigap plans? How many complaints has AARP, or its business partners, received as a result of sales agent misconduct and/or marketing abuses that are related to sale of each of the insurance policy types listed above? Has AARP membership been affected by support for the House legislation which includes severe cuts to Medicare? Have membership levels dropped? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Should you have any questions, you may contact Beth Nelson in my office (beth.nelson@mail.house.gov or 202-225-7761). Sincerely, DAVID G. REICHERT Member of Congress
09.18.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement in response to a intentionally deceptive and misleading television ad campaign launched by activist group Moveon.org that distorts his record on health care for blatant political purposes: “Now is the time to come together and debate meaningful solutions to lower health care costs, improve quality, and preserve Americans’ choice of care, not to derail this vital process with shameful, partisan politics. Moveon.org can tell anyone they want that I voted against a $1.1 trillion government take-over of health care that would increase the cost of care, impose new penalty taxes on small businesses, and prevent Americans from keeping the care they have if they like it. That vote was in the best interests of my constituents and the American people, I stand by it, and I will continue to fight for common-sense reforms that incorporate the best ideas from both sides of the aisle. “What I won’t stand for is a divisive political attack that questions my integrity and prevents us from achieving the reforms American families need. This ad is completely dishonest and does a disservice to my constituents. It is yet another roadblock on the path to real reform.” Moveon.org’s television ad is yet another in a series of deceptive attacks that the activist organization has launched against leading voices in major policy debates over the past three years. TV networks across the country pulled several of these ads off the air in 2006 because of their dishonesty. To learn more about the amendments Congressman Reichert offered to the health care overhaul bill in committee and the work he is doing to protect and strengthen health care, please visit https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health. # # #
09.18.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement as the House of Representatives passed legislation to terminate the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) and replace it with a government-run and taxpayer financed system under the Direct Loan program: “I have long-fought for increasing students’ access to financial aid for education, investing in early learning, and strengthening community colleges, but there are better ways to improve education than the bill voted on today. Unfortunately, this bill will hurt students by eliminating choice, paving the way for a government takeover of education funding for college. We must work to strengthen the education system but also preserve choices for students and their parents. Our children need education that is accessible and affordable, to excel and lead our nation into the future.” # # #
09.16.2009	Today, Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Congressman Norm Dicks, Congressman Jim McDermott, Congressman Adam Smith, and Congressman Dave Reichert sent a letter to Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp requesting that he expeditiously review and approve the Advance Measures request as submitted by the Seattle District of the Army Corps of Engineers. The letter also called on the Army Corps of Engineers to move quickly on the design and engineering of a permanent repair to the dam. “The Army Corps of Engineers must work swiftly to adequately protect the Green River Valley," said Reichert. "We cannot simply wait and see – it is critical we act now to prepare against the threat posed by the damaged Howard Hanson Dam. I am pleased the delegation came together to encourage this step, and hope the Army Corps moves quickly to expedite and approve the request.” “We also ask for your expeditious review and approval of the Advance Measures request. Quick approval is needed to provide the County and the cities sufficient time to deploy the materials and equipment before the start of this year’s flood season….We ask that you move quickly on the design and engineering of a permanent repair to the dam, and that you work with us to identify the funding required to implement the necessary repair,” the members wrote in the letter. The Congressional delegation members’ letter urges quick approval of the Advanced Measures request to provide King County and its cities sufficient time to deploy the materials and equipment needed to protect land and property prior to the start of this year’s flood season. The full text of the letter follows: September 16, 2009 Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp U.S. Army Chief of Engineers and Commanding General U.S Army Corps of Engineers 441 G. Street, NWWashington, DC 20314-1000, Dear Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, We are writing to request your assistance to address increased risks of flooding in the Green River valley in King County, Washington, as a result of storm damage to the Howard Hanson Dam. Specifically, we ask that the Army Corps expeditiously review and approve the Advance Measures request as submitted by the Seattle District of the Army Corps of Engineers. The Green River valley communities are home to over 25,000 people and include industrial, warehouse, distribution, and aerospace manufacturing facilities. The valley contains the second largest manufacturing and distribution center on the west coast and is an essential part of the Washington state economy. For over 40 years, the Howard Hanson Dam and Green River levees in King County have provided effective flood control to the Green River valley. For example, the Howard Hanson Dam is estimated to have prevented $4 billion in damage during a major January 2009 storm and saved an estimated $40 million per day in lost economic output. This same storm, however, damaged an abutment adjacent to the dam, which has diminished the effectiveness of the dam and increased the flood risk to the Green River valley. In response to the increased flood risks, Governor Chris Gregoire asked Colonel Anthony Wright, the Commander of the Seattle District, to provide materials and equipment to improve flood protection before this coming flood season, under the Corps’ Advance Measures program. In response, Colonel Wright submitted a September 12 report recommending approval of Advance Measures to shore up the existing levees and raise the low spots, and to provide secondary containment around federal, state, and local public facilities and other critical infrastructure. We appreciate the continuing assistance and support of Colonel Wright and the Seattle District, who has been working closely with elected officials and emergency managers from all the affected levels of government. We also ask for your expeditious review and approval of the Advance Measures request. Quick approval is needed to provide the County and the cities sufficient time to deploy the materials and equipment before the start of this year’s flood season. As proposed, these measures will reduce the estimated property damages of a 25% probability (1 in 4 years) flood event from over $1 billion to damages closer to $200 million. The Colonel’s report concludes there would be a federal benefit to cost ratio of 5.9 to 1. It is clear that the increased flood risk to the Green River Valley communities is a situation that will be a serious concern for all of us over the next several years. We appreciate the Corps’ efforts to repair the dam, with interim repairs under way now and permanent repairs being studied. We ask that you move quickly on the design and engineering of a permanent repair to the dam, and that you work with us to identify the funding required to implement the necessary repairs. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to your response. ###
09.14.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement in response to Governor Christine Gregoire’s request to the Army Corps of Engineers regarding the flooding threat from the Howard Hanson Dam: “With the threat posed by reduced capacity at the Howard Hanson Dam, our state and federal officials must come together to advance comprehensive, well-coordinated, preparedness and mitigation efforts. I’m encouraged that the Governor is taking this important step to better prepare the area around the Green River and to mitigate the damage that could result from the next heavy storms. But more must be done to safeguard Valley residents and businesses from the flooding threat, beginning with the Army Corps of Engineers working at full tilt to fix the overarching structural problems with the dam. As community leaders, it is our duty to ensure strong coordination, communication, and responsiveness at all levels of government.” Today, state, local and regional leaders hosted a flood awareness kickoff media event about the potential for flooding in the Green River Valley this fall. The leaders came together to raise the alert about the need to prepare now for higher risk of flooding this fall and winter due to damage on an earthen bank next to the Howard Hanson Dam in Southeast King County. # # #
09.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today on the eighth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, attacks: “The fight against terrorism is not lost on us today; in just the last month, families have lost loved ones in battle across this globe, fighting for the freedom and safety of our great nation. The battle for freedom continues. Today, we remember those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and those who have given their all fighting to prevent another attack. From those first responders who responded that day, to the Armed Forces, firefighters and law enforcement who serve us today, we thank them. And because of their service and sacrifice, and the sacrifice of their families, our country remains free. They never hesitate in their work, and we must never hesitate in our support for them.” # # #
09.09.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) tonight issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress: “President Obama and I share the goal of strengthening health care in our country. I’m pleased the President focused on the need for access to affordable health care for all Americans, especially those looking to purchase care outside of what their employers or the government provides. I have long fought to ease the financial burden of health care for these individuals and families and for health care coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, who need more support, not less. I am also pleased the President answered the call for medical malpractice reform. “The health care overhaul bill considered in the House doesn’t match the President’s pledges tonight, and has so far advanced without any bipartisan input. The President failed to specify tonight how he intends to pay for a nearly $1 trillion proposal. The bill I voted against in the House still has not accounted for $240 billion in new spending – that’s a far cry from not impacting our exploding federal deficit. “I am concerned that the proposal for government-run insurance is still being considered, that the bill before the House threatens to cut billions of dollars in seniors’ Medicare benefits, and that proposals to interfere in the doctor-patient relationship remain. “I am eager to work with the President to address these concerns; to adopt common-sense reforms to strengthen our health care system without raising costs, reducing choices, or bankrupting our nation.�? More information on Congressman Reichert’s health care reform proposals can be found at https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health. # # #
09.04.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement in response to press reports that the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruled in favor of the United States against unfair, market-distorting subsidies provided to Boeing’s chief competitor, Airbus: “If the press reports are accurate, today’s World Trade Organization (WTO) decision confirms what we have long known – that billions of dollars in European ‘launch aid’ subsidies have given Airbus a grossly unfair competitive advantage in the global marketplace. This decision is a well-deserved victory for Boeing and America’s aerospace workers, who have continued to innovate and drive the global economy even as they faced a deck stacked squarely against them. The decision is a meaningful step toward ensuring free and fair competition, and I am confident that given a level-playing field, Boeing will continue to be a world-class industry leader and engine of economic growth. I expect that the European Union will comply with this decision within the timeframe set forth by the WTO.” The World Trade Organization is the international body that resolves trade disputes. Today’s decision represents an important milestone in the case the United States originally filed on behalf of Boeing against “launch aid” subsidies for Airbus in October 2004. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is a member of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee.
08.28.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today made the following statement after Boeing announced that the company was applying for building permits in South Carolina, to facilitate the possible opening a second line to build the 787 Dreamliner: “The news this morning makes clear the need for increased urgency and determination in our fight to keep Boeing here in Washington State. The aerospace industry has provided tens of thousands of jobs in the Puget Sound Region for decades and has been a critical economic engine to our state and our communities. We must do what we can to support their continued innovations and successes. Washington State has the best and most committed aerospace engineers and workers in the world, and I encourage our local and state officials to do everything possible to ensure that Boeing’s second line for the 787 is located right here in our great state. Boeing enjoys the full and bipartisan support of the Washington State Congressional Delegation, and we will continue to support Boeing and Washington State.” # # #
08.07.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today made a special visit to thank volunteers, including many Thrivent Financial for Lutherans members, who are helping to make the dream of home ownership a reality for the Ramsey and Zavodov families through the Thrivent Builds with Habitat for Humanity alliance. Reichert visited the construction site in the Koinonia Ridge neighborhood of Snoqualmie to encourage the volunteers and present an American flag flown over the United States Capitol. “It was great to see first-hand the work of these dedicated volunteers, and true team spirit of these organizations to get involved in our communities and meet needs of those in our community,” said Congressman Reichert. “There is a great demand for affordable housing in our community, and I’m excited to support groups like Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and Habitat for Humanity as they bring volunteers and resources together to help address this challenge. We need to do all we can to celebrate the work of these organizations and their volunteers by encouraging people to give of their time to help people in need – particularly during this difficult time in our economy when those needs are continuing to grow.” East King County Habitat for Humanity and the Pacific Northwest Region of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans are helping the Ramsey family and the Zavodov family build homes at 36921 Gravenstein & 36902 Gravenstein, respectively, as part of the alliance. The two homes are part of the total of 11 homes being built in Washington State this year, part of 313 nationwide, as a result of Thrivent Builds with Habitat for Humanity. Thrivent Financial for Lutherans is going beyond its unprecedented $125 million funding commitment by engaging hundreds of thousands of Lutheran volunteers to help build more than 1,300 Thrivent Builds homes by the end of 2009. The alliance also promotes short-term volunteer home building trips abroad. Forty-seven Thrivent Builds homes have been built in the State of Washington since the alliance’s inception. This year, other Washington homes are being built in Kennewick, Spokane, Tacoma, Vancouver, Pacific, Port Townsend, Wenatchee and Longview. For more information on this unique alliance, visit www.ThriventBuilds.com. # # #
08.07.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced that he will host a Workshop for small business owners in the Carlson Theater at Bellevue Community College in Bellevue on August 13, 2009, from 10 a.m. to noon. The Workshop is free of charge and is open to any potential or current small business owner from the Eighth Congressional District. “Small businesses are the engines of our economy,” said Reichert. “Promoting their success is critical to innovation and job creation to revive our economy and I’m pleased to work with these organizations to bring useful tools and techniques to my business-owner constituents.” WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert Interested current and potential small business owners US Small Business Administration U.S. Department of Labor Associated Washington Business WA State Department of Commerce Western Washington University Center for Business Innovation Community Capital Development WHAT: A small business workshop for insight on resources helpful to small business. Representatives from agencies and organizations presenting technologies and programs designed to enhance your bottom line. WHEN: Thursday, August 13, 10 a.m. – noon WHERE: Bellevue Community College, Carlson Theater 3000 Linderholm Circle SE Bellevue, Washington, 98007 Anyone with interest in attending should contact Gwen Fraser in Congressman Reichert’s district office at (206) 275-3438. Media inquiries about the event can be directed to Abbey Shilling, Press Secretary, at 202-225-7761 or 206-484-1033 (cell). # # #
07.31.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced his “Common Cents” Agenda and the introduction of two bills to rein in federal spending, and reclaim bailout funds today as part of the roll-out of the agenda. With this agenda, Reichert aims to rein in out-of-control spending, ensure government is transparent and accountable to taxpayers, reclaiming bailout money for taxpayers, reforming a broken earmark system, and stop government overreaching. “With heightened awareness on our economy and how every dollar is being spent, Congress cannot continue to shoot first and ask questions later,” said Reichert. “Over the past year, Congress has considered and passed a variety of bills that added billions to our deficit. These bills have been brought up in the name of creating jobs or stimulating the economy, but included no accountability or transparency and have not done what they were intended to do. We need to bring some common “cents” to restore the sense of Congress that our first priority is protecting taxpayers’ pocketbooks and ensuring that the tax dollars we do spend are transparent and accountable and go toward programs that improve Americans’ quality of life and create economic growth, not grow the size of government and interfere with private sector freedom to innovate and create jobs. I hope that we can all work together, Democrats and Republicans, to stop the abuses and protect taxpayer dollars. That’s our responsibility and the American taxpayers deserve it.” The two pieces of legislation introduced today include the Reclaiming Bailout Funds for Taxpayers Act (H.R. 3428), and the Ensuring the Effectiveness of Federal Programs Act (H.Res. 702). H.R. 3428 works to reclaim bailout money for taxpayers, by calling for unused bailout funds to be returned and to pay down the deficit. H.Res. 702 would ensure more transparency and accountability in federal spending, by requiring regular assessments of the effectiveness of all authorized federal programs to ensure proper use of taxpayer dollars. Reichert also opposed legislation on the House floor today which would give government the authority to reside over the decisions of pay for corporations and their employees. Other items of the agenda include: Cosponsor of the Preserving Capitalism in America Amendment to prohibit the government from owning stock in any private company. Author of comprehensive legislation (H.R. 3268) to set new standards for accountability and transparency and reform a broken system that has been abused for personal gain (link to release). # # #
07.30.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) cast his vote today in support of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education funding legislation that included critical funding for projects in Washington State to encourage participation in educational and recreational activities, to improve internet safety curriculum for K-12, and to assist disadvantaged foster youth achieve higher education. The legislation includes an increase of funding for the National Institutes of Health and important education programs GEAR UP, TRIO, Pell grants and Student Financial Aid, programs that are priorities for the Congressman. “Health and education are two support pillars for strong communities and provide the foundation for growth and achievement for our children, and for our country,” said Reichert. “The projects for the Eighth District and Washington State in this bill are all making great investments in these areas, and I’m glad to see them included. The overall bill also includes critical funding for the National Institutes of Health, which leads the way toward important medical discoveries that improve people's health and saves lives. NIH scientists investigate the causes, treatments, and even the cures for common and rare diseases. I was pleased to support this bill in the House today and hope the Senate takes swift action to move this important bill forward.” Reichert has led the fight to boost NIH funding, joining forces with Rep. Ed Markey (MA-07) for the past three years to urge Congress to make a long-term, sustained investment in NIH research, with almost 200 Members of Congress joining the push for additional funding. Reichert successfully obtained the following projects: FY2010 Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations Requesting Entity Amount Link to more information City of Bellevue – Wrap Around Services The Wrap-Around Services Program is an innovative partnership between the City of Bellevue, the Bellevue School District and United Way of King County. Working collaboratively, the program coordinates and provides services on-site at Lake Hills Elementary School to meet the educational and developmental needs of the diverse children and youth population served by the school and community. The program encourages local resident and family participation in school life and maximizes the public’s investment in local school facilities by making them available for educational and recreational activities. $375,000 disclosure forms LOOKBOTHWAYS (Port Townsend) – Skills for Life Online (K-12 Internet Safety Curriculum) LOOKBOTHWAYS is creating a curriculum that educates and teaches actionable skills, while it empowers and motivates children towards safe and appropriate online interactions. Using Internet technologies for delivery, LOOKBOTHWAYS will offer this curriculum to schools, organizations, families, and the public free of any charges. These funds will be used to complete the development of grade 5 through 9 curricula for Internet Safety. $500,000 disclosure forms Seattle University – Fostering Scholars Program In Washington State, only 3 in 10 foster youth graduate from high school and only 25% of that 30% enroll in a post-secondary education program. Within one year of emancipation, only 43% were employed with 45% looking for work. Of those employed 47% were making wages at or below the poverty line. The Fostering Scholars Program provides full-tuition scholarships, year-round room and board, health insurance, personal support, a program of cohort and leadership development, work-study jobs, and opportunity to study abroad, access to tutoring, therapy and counseling as needed, and the benefit of emergency funds to foster children who have aged out of the foster care system. $500,000 disclosure forms # # #
07.27.2009	Washington State Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced legislation, the Earmark Transparency and Accountability Reform Act (H.R. 3268), to reform the broken earmark system in Congress that has wasted taxpayer dollars and been abused for personal gain. This bipartisan effort, led by two members of Washington State’s congressional delegation, would set standards for accountability and transparency through more stringent measures as the earmarks are vetted through the Congressional budget process. “Congress’ action to reform earmarks simply hasn’t gone far enough, and that is why we have taken the lead to reform the system with the best ideas from both sides,” said Reichert. “We are holding ourselves to these high standards and encouraging Congress to adopt them, bringing much-needed accountability to the entire process. Member projects or “earmarks” play an important role in our communities when they put federal dollars to good use, whether it’s to rebuild a road, or assist a hospital with a new project to save lives, but they must be done in a way that is accountable, transparent, that protects the taxpayer, and through a system the public can trust.” “Transparency ensures accountability,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “While many congressional earmarked projects – when vetted correctly and thoroughly – make positive and needed investments in our communities, some groups have found ways to manipulate the system in their favor. This must end and that is why I joined Congressman Reichert in introducing this legislation. We must continue to work to reform and bring transparency to the earmark process. This bill does just that.” Provisions in the bill to reform the system include: · Brings unprecedented transparency by requiring that any bill with an earmark be available online for review at least 72 hours before the legislation is brought to the House floor, all earmark requests be posted online for public review on the House Clerk’s website, and all earmark language must be incorporated into the text of the bill; · Enacts line item veto authority for earmarked bills; · Establishes a regular audit process for federally funded projects; · Requires disclosure of money spent by private groups lobbying on behalf of earmarks; and, · Prohibits earmarks from being slipped into bills after House/Senate passage. # # #
07.23.2009	With the support of Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) appropriations legislation for the federal government’s fiscal year 2010. Reichert secured over $10.8 million in Eighth District funding for several local infrastructure projects, including projects in Snoqualmie, Maple Valley, Bellevue, and Auburn. “Transportation touches all of us, from parents taking a child to soccer practice to the movement of our goods and services,” said Reichert. “The success of our economy depends upon our ability to move our goods out to global markets and import the goods we need to remain competitive. The projects for Washington State in this bill will directly create jobs. These projects will improve the quality of life in the region, by investing in mass transit and alleviating gridlock for families and workers, a key component in keeping and attracting new businesses.” Reichert successfully obtained the following projects: FY2010 Transportation – Housing – Urban Development Requesting Entity Amount Link to more information Boys and Girls Clubs of Bellevue - Bellevue Community Center Upgrade Project $150,000 disclosure forms City of Auburn - M Street SE Grade Separation Project $750,000 disclosure forms Cities of Maple Valley and Covington - SE King County Commuter Rail and Transit Centers Feasibility Study $360,000 disclosure forms City of Snoqualmie - Snoqualmie Historic Downtown Main Street Infrastructure Improvements $250,000 disclosure forms King County - Bellevue-Redmond RapidRide $9,368,193 disclosure forms H.R. 3288 provides $21.5 billion for the Department of Transportation, which funds the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Highway Administration, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, and the Federal Transit Administration. The Department of Transportation (DOT) funds the building and maintenance our nation’s infrastructure. The bill also provides $47 billion in funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, including funds for Public and Indian Housing, Community Planning and Development programs, and the Federal Housing Administration. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) provides public housing for our nation’s most vulnerable. # # #
07.17.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today opposed sending a $1.1 trillion government-run health care plan to the House floor. Reichert offered two amendments to protect the health care and pocketbooks of American families and small businesses during debate on the proposal before the House Ways & Means Committee. The Committee approved the bill 23-18. “A government-run public health plan that threatens to raise Americans’ health care costs, reduce their choice of care, and let the government interfere in deeply personal medical decisions at a cost of more than a trillion dollars is the wrong prescription for our health care and our economy,” said Reichert, a member of the Committee. “Democrats and Republicans can agree: we need to make better quality health care more affordable. Unfortunately, the government-run proposal before the committee today does just the opposite, by increasing costs, assessing penalty fees on families and employers, and jeopardizing access to quality health care.” Reichert continued, “I remain committed to protecting and strengthening Americans’ health care - protecting them from increased health care costs, losing the health plans they currently have, and government interference in medical decisions, and strengthening health care to ensure that all Americans have access to the best care anywhere at prices they can afford.” Reichert’s first questions in the debate focused on changes to the bill that would permit the government to ration health care, and was not convinced by the responses he got that the bill would protect patients. Reichert also offered two amendments: 1) To enable Americans satisfied with their health care plans to keep them. The overhaul bill prohibits individuals from enrolling in new health plans not offered by either the government or their employer, and also bans these plans from offering any new benefits. Reichert worked to eliminate the provision; it was voted down 26-15. [WATCH HERE] 2) To protect small businesses from a new 8% employer mandate penalty tax if the tax increase would result in laying off workers, cutting wages, or preventing the small business from hiring new workers. The amendment was defeated. [WATCH HERE] The bill considered before the Ways & Means Committee today would implement a government-run public health plan that could force millions of Americans to see increased health care costs or lose the health plans they currently have. The head of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) warned earlier in the day that the $1.1 trillion proposal would create an expensive new program that would weaken the economy. Nearly 1,000 constituents interacted with Reichert during committee debate through his all-access Protect and Strengthen Health Care website, where they watched live proceedings and shared their health care stories and opinions. Learn more at https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health. # # #
07.15.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today launched a Protect and Strengthen Health Care site on his congressional website to provide constituents and interested parties with an all-access pass and up-to-the-minute updates on the health-care reform battle brewing in the House of Representatives. On the site, constituents can share their own health stories, respond to online polls, communicate with Congressman Reichert as the bill is debated in the Ways and Means Committee, and learn more about the proposals before Congress. “This new interactive site is intended to not only inform but to be a hub for sharing information and to help keep people informed of what’s happening with health care in Congress,” said Reichert. “Health care is about people. We need to strengthen health care for patients, to make better quality care more affordable and available to all Americans, but we also need to also protect them from a government-run plan that would raise costs, reduce choices, and give power to the government to come between patients and their doctors.” Yesterday, House Democrats unveiled a $1.1 trillion health care overhaul proposal that would implement a government-run “public plan.” The massive bill will first be considered by the House Ways & Means Committee, of which Reichert is a member, in a mark-up of the bill beginning at 9:00am EST on Thursday. To learn more, visit: https://reichert.house.gov/issue/health. # # #
07.14.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement today after House Democrats unveiled a $1.1 trillion health care overhaul proposal that would implement a government-run “public plan,” which threatens to raise costs, reduce choices, and allow government bureaucrats to interfere in the patient-doctor relationship: “Increasing spending, raising taxes, assessing penalty fees, and reducing the choice and quality of care is no way to transform health care in America,” said Reichert. “This is the wrong time to be putting additional burdens on individuals and small businesses, as well as adding to our national deficit that hit $1,000,000,000,000 yesterday. Health care is not about ‘systems’ and ‘flows’ and complicated regulations in government jargon. Health care is about people. Quality health care is the foundation for our children to grow and prosper, just as it is the basis for seniors to enjoy comfortable retirements. “I am committed to protecting and strengthening health care – protecting Americans from increased health care costs, losing the health plans they currently have, and the government interfering in their medical decisions; and strengthening health care by ensuring that better quality, more affordable care is available for all Americans.” The bill will first be considered by the House Ways & Means Committee, of which Reichert is a member, in a mark-up beginning at 9:00am EST on Thursday. # # #
07.14.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced his support for legislation establishing a clear pathway for the introduction of innovative treatments, medications, and therapies for life-threatening diseases and conditions, known as “biosimilars” or “follow-on biologics.” After consulting with patients, doctors, biotechnology innovators, and medical researchers, Reichert cosponsored the Pathway for Biosimilars Act (H.R. 1548), which creates a process for the approval of follow-on biologics while protecting patient health and safety, lowering health care costs, and providing incentives for biotech innovation. “We must equip our medical professionals with every available tool to fight a child’s cancer or a senior’s debilitating diabetes,” said Reichert. “We have always channeled American ingenuity to overcome the challenges before us, and we must encourage health care innovators to develop treatments that are safer, more effective, and more affordable. Inventing and developing new medical treatments is a risky, expensive, and all-consuming task. This bill will help advance these treatments and will create a pipeline of American innovation, research, and technology to help the patients of today and tomorrow.” While ordinary pharmaceuticals primarily treat the symptoms of a disease or illness, the biotechnology industry has been developing biologics that can target the underlying mechanisms and pathways of a disease. The original patents on biologics are beginning to expire and Congress should act now to consider how the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will consider and approve these groundbreaking treatments. The bill ensures patient safety, recognizes scientific differences between drugs and biologics, maintains the patient-doctor relationship, preserves incentives for innovation, ensures transparent statutory and regulatory processes, and continues to prioritize FDA review and approval of new therapies and cures. # # #
07.08.2009	Washington State Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Adam Smith (WA-09) teamed up today to pass a bipartisan amendment providing new assistance to disadvantaged small businesses, including those owned by service-disabled veterans. The amendment to the Enhancing Small Business Research and Innovation Act (H.R. 2965) prioritizes Small Business Administration outreach grants for organizations with the most knowledge and experience in helping similarly disadvantaged small businesses receive aid. It received praise from leaders on both sides of the aisle and passed the House unanimously. “Outreach and assistance can be so much more effective when someone who overcame the same difficulties and has an understanding of the same challenges reaches out with a helping hand,” said Reichert. “A wounded veteran, who has already come back from battle and started his own organization, better understands some of the pitfalls that can arise and can use that knowledge to help other veterans looking to start their own businesses. The same goes for women- or minority-owned organizations. We can make small business assistance most effective when we empower those with unique knowledge and experience to deliver it. Like-minded organizations are better suited to reach out and help other disadvantaged small businesses apply for assistance, so they can get off the ground and provide for their families.” (WATCH: Reichert speaks on the amendment) Reichert continued, “I was pleased to work with my colleague from Washington State, Congressman Adam Smith, on this measure and I’m proud that the House strongly endorsed our bipartisan measure.” Congressman Smith, the cosponsor of the measure, spoke in support of the amendment and the legislation, commented during debate, “These are two critical programs, and I thank the committee, as well, for their excellent work in reauthorizing these programs, the SBIR and the STTR programs, which are designed to help small businesses with innovative products get access to help from them all business administration to promote those products, and in particular, to emphasize help for veteran-owned small businesses, small businesses, minority and under reached areas. I applaud Mr. Reichert for offering this amendment as we reach out to those people and make them aware of these programs…it makes a great deal of sense to use those same veterans, minorities, underrepresented areas to do that outreach. I think this is a well thought out amendment that will help enormously in making sure those people get access to those critical programs.” H.R. 2965 reauthorizes both the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and the Small Business Technology Transfer (SBTT) programs of the Small Business Administration through September 30, 2011. Through these two competitive programs, the SBA ensures that our nation's small, high-tech, innovative businesses are eligible for assistance in developing the new technologies that make our economy the most dynamic in the world. Small Business Committee Chairwoman Nydia Velazquez (D-NY) spoke in favor of the Reichert-Smith amendment: “By expanding the set of businesses that compete for grants and contribute creative ideas, we can further spur innovation and encourage the development of new better products. The amendment offered by the gentleman from Washington strengthens this part of the bill. By utilizing organizations that have experience with the communities we are trying to reach, it will expand the reach of the SBIR and STTR programs, making this bill more effective. It only makes sense to have the Small Business Administration leverage the knowledge of groups that already work closely with these populations.” # # #
07.02.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement honoring Independence Day: “As we gather with our families and friends this holiday weekend to celebrate our democracy and independence, we must not forget that our freedom is not free. We have the courage, commitment, and sacrifice of generations of men and women in uniform to thank for upholding and protecting the freedom that we enjoy. They not only preserve our liberty, but have shared the virtues of democracy and our founding freedoms with nations around the world. “Our soldiers passed a significant milestone in supporting democracy in Iraq this week, as Iraqi forces took over the security of their cities. It is because of the hard work of each and every soldier who served that this progress was made. I applaud and thank them for their achievements. “As you enjoy backyard barbecues and baseball games this Independence Day weekend, please take a moment to thank our troops, veterans, and their families for preserving our freedoms. “Have a safe and enjoyable Fourth of July.”
06.26.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement today after the U.S. House passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act: “Energy independence and our national security are critical issues for America. These issues transcend politics. The future of this country is on the line and we can spare no effort when it comes to leading on these issues at a global level. “This bill is not perfect, but it is a vital step toward energy independence. America cannot maintain global leadership without innovation and new ideas, and we cannot lead if we increasingly depend on foreign nations to heat our homes and move people and goods. The price of inaction is too great; America cannot stand on the sidelines while our competitors embrace new energy efficient technologies. It’s also important that we engage in a bipartisan discussion as we move forward – this bill has many other hoops to jump through before it becomes law and I will continue to work with my colleagues across the aisle and in the Senate to gain more tax relief for middle-income families. “Teddy Roosevelt was the true example of a Republican engaged in conserving resources for our children and grandchildren, but he also had the foresight to seek a brighter future for them. Republicans must be at the table as we look for solutions in energy independence and preserving our environment, while also looking at the bigger picture and working with all of our colleagues for a stronger nation.”
06.18.2009	The House of Representatives today passed an amendment offered by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) to provide new resources for a federal program that helps schools combat sexual harassment, bullying and gang-related violence. Reichert’s amendment to the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 2847) provides $2.5 million for the Supporting Teens through Education and Protection (STEP) program. The bill also contained three Eighth Congressional District projects supporting community safety that Reichert helped secure for King and Pierce Counties. “Our children’s education should never be compromised by fears of being bullied, sexually harassed, or assaulted in school,” said Reichert. “To ensure that we have safe learning environments for students to grow and thrive, our schools must have the resources to effectively address these issues. I’m grateful that House Democrats and Republicans joined together to pass my commonsense amendment that brings schools, law enforcement, and local victims service providers together to foster safe learning environments for our children.” (WATCH: Reichert speaks on his amendment) Reichert continued, “I’m also pleased that community safety projects for both King and Pierce Counties were included in this legislation that will help first responders and provide funding to combat drug crime.” Chairman Alan Mollohan (D-WV) praised Reichert’s amendment during floor debate, stating, “Domestic and dating violence is something that's very serious. It’s something that can be dealt with through the program that the gentleman is advocating. So we thank him for his contribution to our bill here and look forward to working with him as we move this legislation through conference to ensure his efforts here are retained.” Reichert’s amendment was endorsed by the National Education Association, the National Network to End Domestic Violence, Break the Cycle, the National Center for Victims of Crime, and the Family Violence Prevention Fund. The Washington State Coalition Against Domestic Violence also expressed support. Executive Director, Nan Stoops commented, “Young men and women need to learn early and often about the importance of respect and equality in dating relationships, and these messages must be reinforced in school, home, and community settings. The STEP program provides critical support for innovative prevention efforts with youth and teens.” Nearly 1.5 million high school students nationwide experience physical abuse from a dating partner in a single year. In fact, in one year, over 4,000 incidents of rape and sexual assault occurred in public schools around the country. Schools need more effective policies and procedures to address this problem when it occurs among their students. The STEP program was authorized by Congress in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization bill (Public Law 109–162) but was not funded. STEP helps middle and high schools collaborate with local domestic violence and sexual assault service providers, law enforcement agencies, courts and other organizations to improve school safety. Bringing the varying expertise of these collaborators together, STEP funds can: · provide training to school personnel; · provide support services and referrals for students experiencing abuse; · develop and implement policies in the schools to foster appropriate, safe responses to affected students and hold perpetrators accountable for their actions; · provide educational programming regarding domestic and dating violence, sexual assault and stalking to students and develop strong mentoring programs to aid students in coping with and understanding these types of violence. Three Eighth Congressional District projects were also included in the legislation. Reichert requested these funds which will go to help emergency communications in the City of Auburn and the surrounding Valley Cities region, as well as the Pierce County Sheriff’s Department and the Washington State Meth Initiative. For more information on these projects, visit https://reichert.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=131130.
06.16.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today to stop taxpayer funds from being diverted to governments that support terrorist activities and to keep terrorist detainees from being transferred into communities in the United States. The House voted today, 226-202, to cut funds for our troops in the field in order to loan U.S. taxpayer dollars to countries like Iran and Syria that support terrorist activities. The legislation also included a loophole that would make it easier to transfer terrorist detainees from military prisons into the United States. “Our men and women in uniform give one hundred percent effort every single day to defend our freedom, and it is our responsibility to support them one hundred percent,” said Reichert. “A funding bill to support our soldiers in the field in every way should not be used to bailout foreign sponsors of terrorism nor to permit captured terrorists to be transferred into our communities. This is just wrong. Our troops do not deserve to have their funding used as a political tool or to advance a political agenda. I was proud to stand with our soldiers to support their funding in a stand-alone troop funding bill last month; Congress should have worked together and rejected this bill show their respect for our soldiers. It is our duty to supply our troops with the funds they need to carry out their mission.” House Bill, Passed May 14 Final Version, Passed June 16 Overall funding $96.7 billion $105.9 billion Troop funding $84.5 billion $79.9 billion International Monetary Fund (IMF) $0 $5 billion for bailout of foreign economies. Total potential cost to taxpayers: $108 billion. Guantanamo Bay Prohibited funds from being used to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. Loopholes that allow Guantanamo Bay detainees to be transferred to U.S. soil. # # #
06.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced that $750,000 he requested for flood mitigation in the North Bend area was included in legislation that will soon be considered by Congress. These needed resources will support efforts to elevate homes in high risk flood areas to prevent future loss and damage. “Severe and repetitive flooding has devastated the homes of families throughout the North Bend area. While we cannot replace the many family keepsakes and memories lost due to this flooding, we can and should protect public safety and private property from future damage by assisting localities in their efforts to reduce flood hazards,” said Reichert. “I will continue to advocate for these critical resources as Congress works through the federal funding process.” Reichert successfully secured funding for the following project: FY2010 Homeland Security Requesting Entity Amount Link to more information King County – North Bend Area Residential Flood Mitigation $750,000 disclosure forms Background on the North Bend Area Residential Flood Mitigation Deep and repetitive floods have struck parts of the North Bend area. The Shamrock Park neighborhood, for example, includes several repetitive loss properties as identified by the National Flood Insurance Program. The neighborhood has been repeatedly flooded at different times from different sources including the South Fork Snoqualmie, Ribary Creek, and Clough Creek. The flooding cannot be prevented unless all sources are addressed. A more reliable, cost-effective solution would be to make each home less susceptible to high water. # # #
06.11.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced funding for Mount Rainier and the City of Buckley that was included in legislation being prepared for consideration in the House of Representatives. Congressman Reichert requested these funds which will improve access to the parks at Mount Rainer, and improve water availability in case of emergency for the City of Buckley. “Both of these projects are important to this district and to the areas they will serve,” said Reichert. “Mount Rainier, with this boost, will be able to handle a higher capacity of visitors to access the park and appreciate the natural beauty of the mountain. Local communities also benefit from increased tourism. I am also pleased to see the funding for the City of Buckley, so in the case of an emergency they will have access to a clean water supply. As these projects move through the Congressional process, I will continue to work for their completion in the final legislation.” Reichert successfully secured funding for the following projects: FY2010 Interior – Environment Appropriations Requesting Entity Amount Link to more information City of Buckley – Construct an emergency intertie booster station $333,850 disclosure forms Mount Rainier, Carbon River Gateway $2,150,000 disclosure forms Background: Mount Rainier Project The Carbon River Road has frequently been washed out, preventing visitors from reaching the Ipsut Creek campground and picnic area, as well as day-use parking for access to the Carbon Glacier and Wonderland Trail. To address this problem, and to eliminate the considerable maintenance costs necessitated by the frequent flooding, Congress passed an expansion of the park’s northwestern boundary three miles along the Carbon River Valley. The addition of these lands will allow the National Park Service to establish a new campground with associated roads and parking, new hiking trails, and riverfront fishing areas. The expansion will also afford much needed protection to the beautiful Carbon River Valley, conserving habitat for endangered and threatened species. The valley contains one of the last inland old-growth rainforests in the United States, and connects wildlife corridors from the park to Puget Sound. Among the property included within the newly expanded park boundary is the 240-acre Carbon River Gateway. This parcel lies adjacent to Forest Service lands that link current Park Service lands with the privately-owned parcels within the expansion area. City of Buckley Project The City of Buckley will construct an emergency intertie booster station to allow the City to use water from the City of Tacoma in an emergency. The City of Tacoma water system in this area operates with a hydraulic grade line of 810 feet. The City of Buckley water system operates with a hydraulic grade line of 882 feet. Therefore the booster station is required to overcome a static head of approximately 72 feet. The City’s largest water source is the S. Prairie Creek surface water source. The City’s water right for this source is 900 gpm. To allow the system to operate effectively with the S. Prairie Creek source out of service, the booster station will have a capacity of 900 gpm. The booster station will be constructed in right-of-way in a location close to existing City of Buckley and City of Tacoma water infrastructure. # # #
06.04.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced that more than $2 million in funding to improve public safety in King and Pierce Counties, Washington was included in legislation that will soon be considered by Congress. Congressman Reichert requested these funds which will go to help emergency communications in the City of Auburn and the surrounding Valley Cities region, as well as the Pierce County Sheriff’s Department and the Washington State Meth Initiative. “In these tough economic times, we cannot afford to let the safety of our communities suffer because of strained local budgets,” said Reichert. “These well-deserved funds will help in the fight on illegal drugs and to equip law enforcement and first responders with the tools they need to swiftly and effectively respond to emergencies and keep our children safe.” Reichert successfully secured funding for the following projects: FY2010 Commerce – Justice – Science Appropriations Requesting Entity Amount More Information City of Auburn – Valley Cities Public Safety Regional Broadband Network $150,000 Official Disclosure Forms Pierce County Alliance – Washington State Meth Initiative $1,500,000 Official Disclosure Forms Pierce County Sheriff Department – Region 43, Pierce County Metropolitan Public Safety Communications, Interoperable First Responder Emergency Communication System $500,000 Official Disclosure Forms Congressman Reichert has worked extensively on improving interoperability since coming to Congress in 2005, with his 21st Century Communications Act signed into law in October 2006 as part of comprehensive FEMA reform legislation. # # #
06.04.2009	A bipartisan group of members, including U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), and Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC) today introduced the Consumer Assistance Rebate for Energy (CARE) Act, legislation designed to return to consumers 100 percent of the revenue made by reducing CO2 emissions under federal climate change legislation. “Action is needed to address global climate change, but we must make certain that any legislation to do so considers the potential economic impact, particularly on the pocketbooks of American families,” said Reichert. “This commonsense bill would be a good first step toward ensuring that the interests of these families and small businesses are considered as climate change proposals are debated in Congress.” Human activity has contributed significantly to the earth’s climate increase in recent decades. Because climate change could seriously impact human health, ecosystems, wildlife, weather and agriculture, Congressional action to reduce national emissions of greenhouse gases contributing to climate change is necessary. Due to the fact that consumers could see an increase in the price of energy, further increasing the price of transportation and consumer goods, the CARE Act requires that any climate legislation provide consumers a rebate - through individual taxes, increases in social security or unemployment benefits, as well as other means - to offset these costs. The bill would ensure that all revenue from the sale of allowances or credits, taxes or fees imposed on greenhouse gas emissions would be returned to the American people. “Climate Change is a serious issue,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill will control costs for consumers, helping to maintain family budgets while at the same time reducing harmful green house gas emissions. It is vital that we keep the economic needs of consumers in mind as we forge a new American energy plan.” “Anything the government collects from polluters should go back to American taxpayers in the form of lower taxes and increased Social Security benefits,” ?said Congressman Dan Lipinski. “We should not get caught up in a fight over how to divvy up the money collected by a cap-and-trade scheme or carbon fee. I think that’s something both Democrats and Republicans can agree on.” “Cap-and-trade is a massive tax increase in the midst of a recession, which almost no economist would recommend,” Inglis said. “Any climate bill should be revenue-neutral which means that we would cut taxes somewhere else before we impose a tax (in equal amount) on emissions. I'm opposed to a cap-and-trade tax increase, but I'm excited about a tax swap. If we change what we tax, free enterprise will create new-energy jobs, we'll clean up the air and we'll improve our national security.” # # #
05.22.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day: “This special weekend gives us the opportunity to honor those who gave their all for the country they, and we, love. As many enjoy time off with their families, barbecues, and community events over this weekend of remembrance, I encourage all citizens to take time to reflect on the sacrifices our veterans and their families made to keep our country safe and preserve our freedom. It is my hope that every American remembers not just every week, but each day, that we have something as precious as freedom because of the service of our courageous men and women in uniform. We must never forget those who honorably served and gave their lives as part of our nation’s Armed Forces, and we thank those who have served, and continue to serve.” With Congressman Reichert’s support, the U.S. House of Representatives this week passed measures to bolster support and benefits for veterans, and a resolution honoring Memorial Day: · H.R. 466, the Wounded Veteran Job Security Act: Prohibits an employer from discriminating against an individual because of any injury or disability caused by military service. The bill would provide protection for individuals with service-related injuries under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA). · H.R. 1170: Encourages the development of new assistive technologies for specially adapted housing for disabled veterans. · H.R. 1089, Veterans Employment Rights Realignment Act of 2009: would provide for the enforcement of the employment and unemployment rights of veterans working in Federal agencies. · H.Res. 360: legislation that urges all Americans and people of all nationalities to visit the national cemeteries, memorials, and markers on Memorial Day. For more on Congressman Reichert’s support for veterans, click here.
05.19.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded President Barack Obama’s proposal for a new national fuel efficiency standard to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: “President Obama’s consensus-based plan to reduce auto emissions is vital to protecting our environment, conserving natural resources, and ultimately reducing our dependence on foreign oil. The proposal will also encourage innovation and the development of new energy technologies that can help us achieve energy independence and preserve the planet for future generations. I commend President Obama for his initiative and pledge to work with him to gain support for this proposal.” The Administration’s proposal would raise corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) standards to 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016. The plan received not only the support of environmental advocates but also commitments from major automakers like Ford, GM, Chrysler, Toyota, Honda, Volkswagen, BMW, and Mercedes-Benz. Congressman Reichert introduced legislation in the 110th Congress to increase CAFE standards, and passed amendments to reduce traffic congestion and promote the use of plug-in hybrid vehicles. For more of his work on energy, click here. # # #
05.14.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a measure by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) to bolster school safety. Reichert’s amendment enables new education funds for school repairs to be used for upgrades and modernizations to ensure schools are prepared and able to respond to emergencies such as campus violence, acts of terrorism, and natural disasters. The amendment is part of the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, which makes grants to States and local educational agencies for the "green" construction, modernization, renovation, or repair of public school facilities. The bill passed the House 275-155. “I can think of nothing more fundamental to creating an optimal learning environment for our children than ensuring our schools are safe, secure places for them to learn and grow,” said Reichert, the Former Sheriff of King County, Washington, as he spoke on the House Floor on his amendment. “We have a responsibility to students, families, and teachers to ensure our schools are equipped with all the tools necessary to prevent and effectively respond to all emergencies. In addition to building modern schools with minimal environmental impact, we should build schools for the 21st century equipped with technology and modern equipment that create safe environments for teaching and encourage learning.” (Watch his statement in its entirety here) Reichert received overwhelming support on the amendment at the local, state and national level. Sue Rahr, the current King County Sheriff, said: "School safety is an evolving strategy. From mentorship to facilities mapping, we have to be vigilant in our efforts to ensure the safest possible environment for our kids, teachers, and school administrators. In tough economic times, this measure will contribute to reaching our goals of safe and secure schools." Randy Dorn, the Washington State Superintendent of Public Instruction commented, “Healthy schools are safe schools. Emergencies come in many forms, and this amendment will help us promptly deal with those emergencies, making our schools and communities safer.” “Congressman Reichert recognizes that our most critical infrastructure is our schools,” said Don Pierce, Executive Director, Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs (WASPC). “They house the nation’s children and should not be forgotten as we work to improve our homeland security. Although there has not been a major terrorist attack on America’s soil since 2001, there continues to be attacks in our schools. By providing technology to assist schools and local first responders, Congress can increase the odds that these incidents will have a positive outcome.” President of the National Sheriff’s Association, David A. Goad commented, "The increase in school violence throughout the United States in recent years has made it essential to equip schools with the technology to assist law enforcement and protect our nation's youths in the event of a critical emergency or violence event. Congressman Reichert's amendment will provide schools the funding necessary to upgrade and implement crucial technology, such as school mapping, surveillance cameras, and other essential security measures. This technology will enable law enforcement agencies to quickly assess any critical emergency or violent event, and will increase law enforcement agencies ability to swiftly respond and save lives. Furthermore, such technology will permit law enforcement to retrieve real-time data and the ability to have "eyes on" in the event of an incident within a school, which is a critical advantage in these situations. On behalf of the National Sheriffs' Association (NSA), I express our strong support for this amendment and commend Congressman Reichert for his dedication to ensure the safety of our nation's schoolchildren across the country." Reichert’s amendment was endorsed by the National Education Association. For more on the overall legislation visit: https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:h.r.2187:. # # #
05.12.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that Kendra Hobbs, a junior from Tahoma Senior High School, has won the 2009 Congressional Arts Competition held in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District. Kendra was chosen last night after judging took place at the Bellevue Arts Museum, with 28 students participating from area high schools. “We had so many great projects and talented artists in this year’s competition, but I’m excited to announce our winner, Kendra Hobbs,” said Reichert. “It’s so important for our young people to be able to develop and demonstrate their talents, whether they are painting, drawing, or sculpting. This generation represents the future of this country and we need to encourage and instill in them that there is limitless opportunities to do what you want to do, to pursue the American dream, whatever your dream may be. Congratulations to Kendra, and everyone who participated in this year’s competition.” Kendra’s artwork, a pointism work entitled, “Owl,” will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel, a prominent thoroughfare on Capitol Hill, tread by numerous visitors and members of Congress to the U.S. Capitol. Kendra is invited to Washington, D.C. to attend the annual unveiling ceremony held on June 24, 2009. Since 1982, the Congressional Arts Competition has offered high school students from across the nation the opportunity to exhibit their artwork in the United States Capitol. Over the years, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the competition. This year’s submitted art projects will be on display at the Bellevue Arts Museum until May 24, 2009. # # #
05.06.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded President Barack Obama’s announcement of a new 6-year commitment to address critical global health priorities. This effort will build on former President Bush’s work on AIDS through the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) program, includes funding for serious diseases like tuberculosis and malaria, and supports programs to reduce infant mortality and improve maternal health. “I applaud President Obama’s commitment to global health, which coincides with legislation I recently helped introduce to provide better care for mothers and newborns in the world’s poorest countries before, during, and after childbirth,” said Reichert, the Co-Chairman of the Congressional Global Health Caucus. “The United States must continue to lead international efforts to develop cures and treatments for deadly diseases, and provide hope to those who need it most.” The President’s initiative follows the recent introduction of the Newborn, Child, and Mother Survival Act of 2009, which Reichert co-authored with Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04). As co-chairs of the Congressional Global Heath Caucus, Reps. Reichert and McCollum worked together on the legislation to keep mothers and children in the world’s poorest countries alive and healthy, before, during and after childbirth. For more on the legislation, visit: https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:HR1410:. # # #
05.01.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in favor of the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act of 2009, comprehensive reform legislation crafted to bring new transparency to consumer lending and crack down on deceptive practices. “Americans rely on access to credit in the course of their daily lives,” said Reichert. “It’s vital that they have the details they need to make informed decisions about the lending options that best suit their needs. I’m pleased to join members on both sides of the aisle to pass this important bill that will protect families and small businesses from deceptive lending practices and empower them to make smart financial decisions during these trying economic times.” The bill would ban companies from retroactively raising interest rates, designate the amount of time (45 days) in which consumers must be notified of rate increases, and prohibit a credit card company from raising the rates on one card for a missed payment on another. Among many provisions, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights: · Protects cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases; · Prevents cardholders who pay on time from being unfairly penalized; · Protects cardholders from due date gimmicks; and, · Shields cardholders from misleading terms. Last September, a nearly identical bill – HR 5244, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act - passed the House 312-112 but did not advance in the Senate. In December, the Federal Reserve released final regulations that would ban many of these practices, but the new rule does not take effect until July 2010. The measure passed today would take effect 90 days after the President signs it. # # #
04.28.2009	As Congress prepares to deal with the public health emergency caused by the swine flu virus, the Congressional Global Health Caucus will hold a briefing next week to address the spread of Swine Influenza in the U.S. and abroad. In light of the rapidly changing information about the infection, which has passed the point of containment, and the challenge of keeping Congress informed and prepared to respond, caucus leaders will lead an important information effort to help Members stay up-to-date about the global spread of the disease. “While no cases in the U.S. have yet proved fatal, it is important that we remain prepared and vigilant in our efforts to contain the Swine Flu virus,” said Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08). “This must include involvement at all levels of government, including internationally. The U.S. and Mexico need to work together on a coordinated response to prevent this outbreak from becoming a pandemic, and both governments must prepare and communicate to their citizens about ongoing developments. Every individual needs to take precautions to help contain the pandemic, and we must all be cautious about our health and well-being to protect our families and especially our children from contracting this dangerous virus.” “This swine flu outbreak is a serious global health threat that requires action by governments, medical professionals, and individuals. Our collective ability to deal with this public health emergency depends on us being knowledgeable about flu prevention so we can learn best practices and act. The Global Health Caucus was set up for this very purpose – to fill the information gap and help connect the dots. President Obama is correct in saying that right now the virus is a cause for concern, but not panic. I will continue to work with the administration to make sure we are taking every step necessary to protect the health and safety of the American people and the global community,” Congresswoman McCollum said. The Department of Health and Human Services declared a public health emergency as a precautionary measure to ensure the U.S. can easily and immediately access vital resources. The caucus will closely monitor the outbreak and its potential to become an epidemic and disseminate timely information to Members and staff by circulating Dear Colleagues communications and convening briefings about the evolving situation. The Co-chairs of the bipartisan caucus are U.S. Representatives Betty McCollum, Dave Reichert, Vic Snyder, Donna Christensen, Mike Simpson and Joe Wilson. The Congressional Global Health Caucus provides a forum for Members of Congress, congressional staff and the global health community to share information, dialogue and enhance understanding regarding the existing and emerging global health challenges facing the U.S. and the world. For more, visit: https://reichert.house.gov/about-me/full-biography. # # #
04.23.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a champion of local law enforcement since his arrival in Congress, today applauded House-passed legislation to strengthen the Community-Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which provides grants to states and localities to hire and train law enforcement officers, purchase and deploy new crime-fighting technologies, and develop new and innovative policing strategies. “The passage of today’s bill is an important step in regaining the focus on supporting local law enforcement. For too long, the COPS program, a program I utilized as Sheriff of King County, has taken enormous cuts,” said Reichert, a 33-year veteran of law enforcement. “After September 11, 2001, the role of law enforcement changed dramatically and continues to evolve, and we must provide these men and women with the resources they need as we ask them to do more in protecting our nation. Local cops are the ones on the front lines – they are the men and women keeping our families safe every day. One of the most important things that cops need to know is that their community supports them, and that includes all levels of local, state, and federal government. This bill sends a message that their importance, and their work, has not gone unnoticed.” The COPS Improvement Act of 2009 will put an additional 50,000 more officers on the street, and will update the scope of the COPS programs by expanding the purpose areas, adding: school resource officers, illegal drug programs, and hiring officers to perform homeland security duties. The bill will also create new grant programs to include the Troops-to-Cops Program, the Community Prosecutors Program, and the Technology Grants program. Visit https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:HR1139: to learn more about the legislation.
04.22.2009	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) today made the following statement in the Congressional Record recognizing Earth Day 2009: “Almost forty years ago today, what was an idea to spread awareness about our environment has become global recognition and awareness of the importance of protecting the Earth. Earth Day began in 1970, when 20 million people participated across the U.S. “Earth Day has grown into a global tradition, with a billion people expected to take part this year in 180 nations around the world. “It is a movement that succeeds because of the passion of each individual, realizing that there's something bigger than ourselves - that what each of us contribute can make a difference in our world, and on our environment. “In Washington State, we take special pride in our natural resources, and I'm proud to follow in the footsteps of so many in our great State who have worked together to protect the outdoors and our environment. "One of the popular, natural glories of my Congressional district in Washington State is the Alpine Lakes Wilderness, a 362,000 acre wilderness that sits just west of the Seattle metropolitan area. Just over a week ago, I joined the senior Senator from Washington State to discuss our recently introduced legislation to designate over 22,000 acres of additional wilderness and institute federal protection for two pristine rivers in my district. Our new legislation will expand the boundary of the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area to embrace important lower-elevation lands, and establish Wild and Scenic designations for the Pratt and parts of the Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers. “Earth Day brings an excitement to the movement of protecting our environment, but we need to take the Earth Day movement from single-day actions—such as park cleanups and tree-planting parties—to long-term commitments in our everyday lives. Whether that is supporting legislation, or making small changes to be more environmentally conscious, each is equally important. These commitments will make a difference for our children and the generations to come.”
04.10.2009	U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), joined by members of the Alpine Lakes Working Group, and local elected officials came together today at the Three Forks Natural Area in North Bend to discuss their recently introduced bi-partisan, bi-cameral, Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act. "There is no better way to explain why we need to protect our lands and rivers than to come see them," Senator Murray said. "This is an area that is easily accessible to so many people in our state and region and yet it represents an escape from everyday and a return to what we value most. Our state has a strong tradition of respecting and protecting our natural environment and I am excited to be a part of this effort to continue that mission. I want my grandson and future generations to be able to enjoy this pristine place. I want to thank all the people who helped make the introduction of our bill possible and look forward to continuing my partnership with them and Congressman Reichert to make this designation a reality." “We’re together today to illustrate our commitment to this effort and the Washington State tradition of preserving our natural resources,” said Reichert. “Introducing the bill together was a great moment, but coming together to the area to discuss the proposal gives a deeper meaning to what we’re trying to do in Congress. It’s more than passing a bill in Washington, D.C. – it’s making a difference for the land and rivers we see here today, and a difference in the lives of nature enthusiasts, our environment, and those who will enjoy it in the future. I’m excited to be working with Senator Murray and others in the Washington State delegation, and also those here today who are committed to this cause.” Murray and Reichert recently introduced legislation in the Senate and House that would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. The Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act will expand the existing wilderness by over 22,000 acres to include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds and protect these two rivers. The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities and economic benefits to the state and region. More: https://murray.senate.gov https://reichert.house.gov/press-release/reichert-introduces-wilderness-expansion-legislation # # #
04.03.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today after debate on the Fiscal Year 2010 House budget resolutions: “Just as families sit down at the kitchen table to map out how to make ends meet, the government must also identify priorities and put forward a responsible outline to address challenges like economic recovery, health care reform, and energy independence. I was concerned by some of the ways that both the Democratic and Republican plans suggested we meet these challenges. They put ‘politics as usual’ ahead of real solutions, and we were left with two polarizing plans instead of progress. “We must come together to find meaningful, common-sense solutions to the challenges before us, reflecting the values found at kitchen tables across our country. We must offer tax incentives to invest and create jobs, not raise taxes on job creators and small businesses. We must reduce wasteful spending, not increase the debt by $9.3 trillion. And we must protect seniors’ retirement security and health care for low-income families, not borrow or cut from those who face some of the greatest difficulties during these trying times. “It’s my hope that as we work this year on the specifics with each separate spending bill, that we do so with our country – the United States of America – in mind. That’s what the citizens of this country want, and what we need for this country to forge ahead.�? Reichert spoke out on the House Floor Thursday morning to voice his concerns. To view the speech, visit www.youtube.com/repdavereichert.
03.31.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the passage of a bill he helped introduce to expand and improve emergency care for children who need treatment for life-threatening illnesses or injuries. The Wakefield Act, which passed the House 390-6, reauthorizes the Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) grant program that helps states and medical institutions buy pediatric equipment for hospitals, train first responders, and improve standards of emergency care for children. Reichert has been one of the measure’s strongest supporters in Congress, having twice secured its approval in the House and successfully passed an amendment in 2007 that increased resources for the program by $2.5 million. “Families must have the comfort of knowing that if their children are involved in serious accidents, that the right emergency services are ready and available to deliver the very best care in that time of need,” said Reichert. “The injuries and illnesses that bring children to the emergency room are significantly different than those that affect adults, and it is essential that hospitals and first responders have the adequate tools and equipment to serve them. I have been a tireless advocate for the Emergency Medical Services for Children program because as a former first responder and the former Sheriff of King County, I understand its importance to emergency preparedness and quality trauma care for our children. Now, we must lean on the Senate to follow the lead of the House and pass this important bill.” Although children account for 30 million annual visits to the emergency room – more than a quarter of all visits – many hospitals and trauma centers are not adequately prepared to handle these patients. A recent Center for Disease Control study found that only 6% of all U.S. emergency departments have all of the supplies necessary for handling pediatric emergencies. As the founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, Reichert successfully passed an amendment increasing funding for the EMSC program by $2.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Health and Human Services spending bill. His caucus also sponsored briefings on the program and helped secure the bipartisan support of more than 70 Members for the reauthorization. The Wakefield Act passed the House in August 2008, but did not pass in the Senate before Congress adjourned. # # #
03.26.2009	Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), joined by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Washington State Congressmen Jay Inslee (WA-01), Brian Baird (WA-03), Adam Smith (WA-05), and Jim McDermott (WA-07), introduced legislation today in the Senate and House that would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and designate both the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic. The Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers Protection Act will expand the existing wilderness by over 22,000 acres to include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds. ”Conservation and preservation of our natural resources reflects the values I grew up with here in Washington State. I want to leave the same kind of legacy for my grandson and for future generations to enjoy,” Senator Murray said. “Pushing new wilderness in Congress is not always easy, but it’s the right thing to do and the right way to do it is by working together. That’s why I’m proud to join with Congressman Reichert and many other members of our state’s Congressional delegation to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness area and add new protections for our rivers.” “We brought together stakeholders, local elected officials, businesses, sportsmen and many others to ensure this process is collaborative and we will continue to seek their input as we move forward. I know the road to passing wilderness is not always easy, but when it’s done right, in a collaborative way, I believe we will have something to celebrate and enjoy for generations.” “What we do today will have a lasting impact on future generations. We must do our part to preserve land, not just in faraway places, but in our own backyard, here in Washington State,” said Reichert. “I’m excited that Senator Patty Murray is joining me in this effort to preserve wilderness, and I am also grateful for the support of Senator Cantwell, and Congressmen Inslee, Baird, Smith, and McDermott in carrying on the great Washington State conservation tradition of working together to preserve our natural resources for our children and grandchildren. I am hopeful that joining forces in the House and Senate will enable us to move this bill quickly and see it become law. “This effort is a direct result of the hard work of countless volunteers and stakeholders from across the Eastside and the state who came together to help advance this important bill. I look forward to working with Senator Murray, our Washington State delegation, and our supporters as we work to make this a reality.” “This is an exciting time for all of us who have been working to support this important legislation.” said Tom Uniack, Washington Wilderness Coalition’s Conservation Director. “We are so thankful for the strong congressional leadership provided by Senator Murray and Congressman Reichert on this proposal. Like the effort to designate the Wild Sky Wilderness, this legislation is built on bipartisan and strong local support which should serve it well as it moves through Congress.” The existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and is one of the most visited wilderness areas in the country. It is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country and provides diverse recreational opportunities. Key elements of the new Alpine Lakes legislation include: Providing the protection of the Wilderness Act of 1964 for the lower elevation lands, which will bring a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, into the wilderness area and increase its overall biodiversity. The addition of these lower elevation lands also has the direct effect of protecting a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities easily accessible for wilderness enthusiasts. To designate the Pratt and Middle Fork Snoqualmie Rivers as Wild and Scenic, which would permanently protect the rivers’ free-flowing character, water quality and outstanding recreation, fisheries, wildlife, geological and ecological values. This designation provides for many recreational activities including unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center. Reichert, joined by state and local officials, other local leaders and constituents of the community, announced his intention to introduce legislation in August 2007, and introduced the original wilderness protection measure in November 2007. From extensive stakeholder inquiries involving recreation groups, conservationists, tribes, local lawmakers, nearby landowners and public agencies, Reichert worked carefully to involve these stakeholders in discussions as the legislation was crafted and as it was introduced. Following a long-fought victory to create the Wild Sky Wilderness Area in 2008, Senator Murray continued a tradition of open public process to help protect public lands. Murray held meetings with stakeholders and a public workshop early in 2009 to discuss the wilderness proposal and hear local community input on the legislation. As a result of those meetings, Senator Murray wrote companion legislation in the Senate and both versions of the bill include the new addition of Wild and Scenic designation for the Middle Fork Snoqualmie River. More: https://murray.senate.gov https://reichert.house.gov/press-release/reichert-introduces-wilderness-expansion-legislation # # #
03.19.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement after voting to recoup taxpayer dollars going towards lavish bonuses at AIG: “These bonuses are yet another reason why I opposed the bailouts in the first place: there continues to be no transparency or accountability while the government spends more and more of the taxpayers’ money. Taxpayers deserve every dollar back that was spent on outrageous bonuses to top executives at bailed out companies surviving on the backs of taxpayers, especially as our economy struggles and families are concerned about putting food on the table. “As this legislation moves through Congress, we must make certain that it does not inadvertently punish those who have fallen on hard times through no fault of their own, including those who have lost their jobs and are receiving severance pay. I am disappointed that this bill was not considered by my committee, and I will continue to work to protect hardworking Americans from potential unintended consequences.” Earlier, Reichert co-led a hearing to investigate how billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), which was established as part of the $700 billion “bailout” legislation last year (H.R. 1424). Last fall, Reichert also called on AIG to return the money it spent on a lavish spa retreat after receiving bailout funding. He has supported other legislation to hold them accountable, including: · Helping to introduce legislation to require the Treasury to provide all records of their negotiations with AIG to the House of Representatives. · Signing onto legislation to remove the provision in the stimulus bill that permitted executive bonuses for bailed out companies. · Voting yesterday to bring legislation to the floor that would direct the Treasury Secretary to implement a plan to recoup the payment of AIG bonuses. The bill would also require approval by the Treasury for any future bonus payments made by TARP fund recipients. (Roll Call 131) Reichert opposed both votes on bailout funding in September and October of 2008. Congressman Dave Reichert is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. # # #
03.18.2009	U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Ron Kind (D-WI), Wally Herger (R-CA), and Suzanne Kosmas (D-FL) introduced legislation today to address an unfair tax on health insurance premiums for the self-employed. The bill would assist 420,000 sole proprietors in Washington State and over 21 million nationwide. “As we look for solutions to ease the burden of skyrocketing health care costs for small businesses and families, this legislation is one step in the right direction to help those who are self-employed,” said Reichert. “It levels the playing field for our country's job creators at a critical time when our economy is struggling, small businesses are struggling, and families are more worried about the cost of health insurance.” Under the current tax code, corporations can deduct the cost of health insurance premiums as a business expense and forego payroll (FICA) taxes on these costs. Self-employed workers, however, cannot take the same deduction and must pay an additional 15.3 percent tax on those premiums. While health insurance costs are a major concern of all employers, this tax provision unfairly forces the self-employed to pay an extra $1,850 annually. “In a tax code as complicated as our own, we need to make sure that all taxpayers are treated fairly. Unfortunately, under current tax law, the self-employed aren’t allowed to take the same deductions on health care premiums as other businesses,” Rep. Kind said. “We need to fix this disparity to make health insurance more affordable for our nation’s entrepreneurs, including the over 300,000 sole proprietors who do business in Wisconsin.” “The United States is on the verge of a health care crisis, millions of people are without insurance because of rising health care costs, and we need to rise above partisanship to overcome these obstacles,” said Rep. Herger. “The Equity for Our Nations Self-Employed Act would correct part of the problem by helping to level the playing field in healthcare costs. It’s patently unfair that sole proprietors, a vital part of job creation and our economy, are penalized with additional taxes because they are not granted the write offs that larger businesses receive. Our legislation would correct this inequity and help make health insurance more affordable for millions of Americans.” “It is absolutely unfair that the self-employed are forced to pay an extra tax on their health insurance premiums,” said Rep. Kosmas. “Our bipartisan legislation will fix this inequity and lower health care costs for over one million Floridians. Rising health insurance costs are a burden to small businesses and families across Central Florida, and I am pleased to sponsor bipartisan, common-sense legislation that addresses this critical issue while helping self-employed small business owners during these difficult economic times.” “This minor, very doable correction of the tax code will make it easier for the 21 million self-employed small-business owners in the U.S. to afford quality health insurance," National Small Business Association President Todd McCracken said. “America’s job creators – small business owners – ought to have equal tax treatment for the purchase of their healthcare. The nations self-employed don't have that equality today. This bipartisan legislation aims to correct that inequity so that entrepreneurs have more affordable healthcare options,” said Susan Eckerly, Senior Vice President of Federal Public Policy for the National Federation of Independent Business. “We look forward to working with Congressman Kind, Herger, Kosmas and Reichert to provide this long overdue tax equity to the self-employed.” “More than half of our members believe the current health care system is not meeting their needs or those of their families,” said National Association of Realtors President Charles McMillan. “Reform of our nation’s health care insurance system for the self-employed is a top NAR priority. On behalf of Realtors® across the country, we enthusiastically support and thank Congressman Kind, Herger, Kosmas and Reichert for championing health care tax reform that will equalize the tax treatment of health insurance premiums for the self-employed with those currently available to other businesses. Additionally, this will help make health care insurance more affordable for our members and for other independent contractors.” "We ought to be encouraging sole proprietors, not penalizing them. Yet the tax code currently does just that," said R. Michael Beene, Senior Health Policy Expert and General Counsel for the National Association for the Self-Employed. "This bill puts the self-employed on equal footing with other American businesses, addresses an area that has too many uninsured individuals and families and rights a wrong at a time when we most need it. On behalf of the NASE and its 200,000 members we offer our full support." # # #
03.10.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer to formally announce the launch of the House Wounded Warriors Program. The Wounded Warrior Program, an initiative begun by the Speaker during the 110th Congress, was established to create fellowships that provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Reichert was one of the first members to participate, bringing Zack Guill on staff in his District Office to assist with federal services to veterans. Guill started in Reichert’s office in December 2008. “We couldn’t be more excited to have Zack be a part of our staff,” said Reichert. “He’s served our country proudly and with honor, and I’m pleased the House began this program to not only give veterans much-deserved employment, but also to help those returning. Zack is a great resource for other veterans who are navigating the bureaucratic process, because he understands what they’ve gone through, and has gone through it himself. He’s an integral part of our team and we’re honored to have him, and the rest of the wounded warriors employed in the U.S. House of Representatives.” Zack Guill, an Army veteran, works in Reichert’s Mercer Island District Office, helping veterans with their issues in the federal government. Guill joined the Army in late 2002 as an airborne infantryman. After basic training and airborne school, he was stationed in Vicenza, Italy and was then deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, and again to Iraq, serving a total of three tours of duty. Two months into his third deployment his vehicle was hit by an IED, where he sustained injuries. Upon returning to the U.S., he worked closely with the Rear Detachment Commander and First Sergeant making sure that wounded soldiers that were coming back were taken care of and got the proper care that they deserved. He was medically retired in late 2008 and later joined Congressman Reichert’s office in December 2008. “I’m really excited to be a part of Congressman Reichert’s office – and have the ability to help other veterans,” said Guill. “It’s a great opportunity not only for me, but for all of the other participants, and the people we are able to help. They can relate to us and it’s a great feeling to be giving back and helping other veterans.” To date, 9 “wounded warriors” are currently working for Members of Congress as part of the fellowship program with a goal of having 25 fellows by the end of 2009. More information: On the Wounded Warrior Program: https://cao.house.gov/wounded-warrior # # #
02.25.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s announcement of former Washington State Governor Gary Locke’s nomination as Commerce Secretary: “President Obama makes a great choice in Gary Locke and I urge the Senate to swiftly confirm him. As the former Governor of Washington State, Locke was an advocate for trade and I hope will bring his free trade principles to this Administration. As we look for solutions to strengthen our economy, opening new markets to trade is an important pillar of any economic policy we put in place. I look forward to working with future-Commerce Secretary Locke as he joins the Obama Administration, and congratulate him in this nomination.” # # #
02.25.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement tonight in response to President Barack Obama’s address to Congress: “Tonight, I was proud to be present as our nation’s President took to the podium in his first address to Congress. This is a critical time for our nation, and I share President Obama’s faith that “we will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of Americawill emerge stronger than before.” “We face great challenges when it comes to our economy. People are hurting. I share President Obama’s goals for rapid economic recovery, even if we have different visions for some of the ways to get there. We must continue to look for ways to come together –Congress, the President, and every citizen of this nation. I am concerned that the address leaves open the possibility of raising taxes on small businesses,the proven engines of job creation and prosperity. We need to keep intact the freedom for ordinary Americans to pursue real opportunities, and to do so, we must keep taxes low, open markets to trade, and work to ensure access to credit. “I also look forward to working with President Obama to address the threat of climate change, preserve our wilderness and natural resources, and achieve energy independence. I was pleased to hear the President’s focus on health care,and look forward to working together to make health care more affordable for families and seniors. “My goal is to continue to stand up for every constituent I represent. I will continue to fight for low- and middle-income American families, and the small business men and women of this country. While we face challenges each and every day, hope in this country – and in the American dream – cannot be lost.”
02.18.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) presented King County Executive Ron Sims and the Metropolitan King County Council with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol on Inauguration Day. Reichert also presented the Council with his statement in the Congressional Record honoring President Barack Obama on his inauguration, recognizing the historical significance as it brings fulfillment to the dream of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and honoring King County, which is named after the late Dr. King, Jr. “It’s my hope that this flag, flown over the U.S. Capitol Building on Inauguration Day, will forever represent the spirit of this historic day, for King County and the citizens of this country,” said Reichert. “I was so proud to watch from the same stage as a Member of Congress, as President Obama took his oath before the thousands gathered together in the spirit of our great democracy, and I’m even more proud to share this with the people here at home, in my district and in Washington State.” Reichert gave brief remarks to the Council, recounting the memories of Inauguration Day. Executive Sims and King County Council Chair Dow Constantine also gave brief remarks. "It is truly an honor to have this Inauguration Day flag take a place in the Martin Luther King Jr. Courthouse," said King County Executive Sims, who is nominated by President Obama to be Deputy Director of Housing and Urban Development. "The history of this flag flying over the nation's capital when a transformational leader, Barack Obama, was sworn in as President, makes this a true treasure for the county and its citizens." "The inauguration of President Obama was a pivotal moment in the history of the American people. Executive Sims will soon join the new administration, continuing his exemplary record of public service," said Council Chair Dow Constantine. "I thank Rep. Reichert for giving the people of King County a memento of this historic event to symbolize the great promise of change and renewal it represents." More photos can be found here: https://reichert.house.gov/photo-gallery/photo-gallery and high resolution photos are available upon request. Reichert’s remarks in the Congressional Record follow: SPEECH OF HON. DAVID G. REICHERT OF WASHINGTON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009 Mr. REICHERT. Madam Speaker, today I rise in celebration of the inauguration of President Barack Obama and in honor of the dream of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In August of 1963, Dr. King shared dream with the world, ``that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: `We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.' '' To so many, this inauguration symbolized the realization of this dream. As the Representative of the Eighth District, I'm proud to stand before you today to recognize the importance of President Obama's place in history, and the fulfillment of the dream of Dr. King. The majority of the Eighth Congressional District of Washington is within the boundaries of King County, and in 1986, King County renamed itself in honor of Dr. King, ``a man whose contributions are well-documented and celebrated by millions throughout this nation and the world, and embody the attributes for which the citizens of King County can be proud, and claim as their own.'' The inauguration of President Barack Obama represented a monumental step forward in fulfilling Dr. King's vision for America. It was also a moment to celebrate our nation's freedom and cherish our democracy as we witnessed the peaceful transition of leadership between two individuals elected by a free people. In the words of President Obama's inauguration speech: ``..... we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord.'' Just 16 days ago President Obama shared these words with the nation as he took to the oath to become the 44th President of our great nation. He shared these words, I believe, to inspire a nation facing great challenges and opportunities ahead. I am so proud to know that, as I serve in the U.S. House of Representatives, I am serving in Washington, DC with a man in the White House who is the absolute embodiment of the beautiful words Dr. King spoke. With that in mind, I requested an American flag to be flown over the Capitol on Inauguration Day to present the flag to King County Executive Ron Sims and the entirety of the County Council, in remembrance of this historic day as the nation moves forward and looks to a future filled with hope and lives on in the American spirit.
02.13.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today opposed the $789.5 billion stimulus package before the U.S. House of Representatives that lacked sufficient relief for the struggling economy. With only 18% of the package providing tax relief for hardworking Americans and small businesses, many of the spending programs will not provide the immediate aid needed to boost economic activity. “Americans are scared, and people are hurting, but we have to get this right,” said Reichert, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “We need a bill that immediately generates jobs. Our economy is fragile, and there are workers across Washington State and the country receiving pink slips. Those who have lost their jobs need hope, stability and security. Families and small businesses need help. That’s why we need legislation to preserve, protect and create jobs, not just increase spending. Many of the programs in this bill are good programs, but they don’t create jobs now – and that’s what we need in this crisis. I can’t vote for this bill with a clear conscience when it’s not the right thing for hurting Americans.” Concerns with the Stimulus Reichert Solutions Spending too much on programs that won’t create jobs. Target spending on infrastructure and other programs that can put people to work now. Failing to provide significant tax relief for the lowest income families. Cut marginal tax rates for the lowest income earners, reducing the 10% tax bracket to 5% and the 15% bracket to 10%, giving more targeted and lasting relief. Failing to provide relief for small businesses. Lower the tax burden on small businesses in Washington State to make critical investments and employ more workers. It fails to address free trade or help US companies export more goods to create more jobs. Enact trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea to bolster production of goods and services in Washington State. Spending $20B on health IT without requiring certification that these systems to manage health records will be able to communicate with each other – which is the very purpose of health IT. Ensure that health IT systems are interoperable before spending billions on them. (Reichert offered an amendment to accomplish this in the Ways & Means Committee) Including language that could lead to the government getting directly involved in Medicare and Medicaid patients’ health care and reduce their choice of care to suit their needs. Support policies that ensure that patients and their doctors have control over their health care needs and services. Reichert continued, “In his inaugural address on January 20, 2009, President Barack Obama called on Congress to "spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day, because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government." I’m pleased that President Obama reached out to Republicans, and has reached out to my office to work together on this critical issue, and we will continue to work together for the sake of our children and grandchildren, and the future of this country.” # # # Reichert answered phone calls Friday morning from constituents on their thoughts and concerns on the stimulus package. Click here for a photo of Dave at the front desk in his Washington, D.C. office.
01.28.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today opposed an $825 billion spending package for which there was little evidence that it would create new jobs. Despite the concerns of many lawmakers, economists, and American citizens, the bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 244-188. “This is a time for smart, accountable, and targeted investments to get our economy back on track, not more of the same shotgun spending that mortgages our children’s futures,” said Reichert. “This package excluded key stimulus provisions from bipartisan negotiations with President Obama and was rushed to the House floor without any assurance that its $825 billion price tag would jumpstart our economy or create jobs. Just last week, the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation could not say whether any jobs would be created by this massive spending package. We cannot let calls for swift action overrun common sense, thorough consideration, and healthy debate.” Reichert continued, “Everyone remembers the bailout from last fall, which demonstrated what happens when government rushes to act without real accountability: mistakes were made, and taxpayers were left with a $700 billion tab. I could not in good conscience support this nearly $1 trillion measure for which there was little evidence that it would create new jobs. There were many provisions in this package that I strongly support; but we need an economic stimulus, not just another spending bill. “Unequivocally, this crisis calls for immediate, bipartisan action – but action that has a proven record of creating jobs and that ensures taxpayer funds are spent wisely. I strongly support proven stimulus measures to address our economic crisis, including extending broad-based tax relief for families and small businesses, opening new markets to trade, and making smart investments in infrastructure improvements.” During consideration of the package in the House Ways & Means Committee last Thursday, Reichert supported several other common-sense proposals to stimulate the economy, ranging from reducing income taxes to prohibiting taxes on unemployment benefits. It was in this same meeting that the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation testified that it could not be determined whether any new jobs would be created by the bill. Reichert concluded, “After meeting with President Obama yesterday, I’m hopeful that he will work with members on both sides of the aisle to enact proven stimulus measures, and I will continue to support his efforts to bring Democrats and Republicans together to build consensus and craft effective legislation for our economy.” Reichert laid out many of the provisions he is seeking in a comprehensive stimulus measure, including: · Reduce income tax rates for the lowest earners, from 10% to 5% and 15% bracket to 10%. · Extend tax incentives for small businesses to make critical investments and employ more workers. · Prohibit taxes on unemployment benefits. · Enact tax deductions to make health insurance more affordable. · Offer incentives for energy efficiency and home purchases. · Invest wisely in highway construction and public transportation. · Open new markets to trade. *Reichert spoke during debate on the stimulus package Tuesday night. To view click the image below.
01.22.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today made the following statement after Microsoft, Corp., announced their second quarter results and the elimination of up to 5,000 jobs: “The unfortunate news today from a giant in Washington State’s economy hit home for thousands in my district and across the Puget Sound Region. As a leader in our state and a model of entrepreneurship across America, Microsoft’s news today provides another example of the far-reaching effects of the downturn. “As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, I’m working closely with my colleagues to craft stimulus legislation that will include measures to create an engine for growth and have a proven record of job creation – broad-based tax relief for individuals and businesses, opening new markets for trade, and fostering incentives for growth. We must work together – Republicans and Democrats – to pass legislation that aids struggling workers, families, and companies, and restores the confidence our economy needs to get back on track.” # # #
01.19.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement upon the upcoming inauguration of the nation’s 44th President. President-elect Barack Obama is scheduled to take the oath of office on Tuesday, January 20, 2009. “The inauguration of President-Elect Barack Obama is a historic moment for our nation, and represents a monumental step forward in fulfilling the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s vision for America. This is also a moment to celebrate our nation’s freedom and cherish our democracy as we witness the peaceful transition of leadership between two individuals elected by a free people. “I appreciate President-Elect Obama’s pledge to work across the aisle to seek consensus, facilitate compromise, and advance solutions – it is the same approach that I brought to the King County Sheriff’s Office and to Congress. I’m eager to work with our nation’s new leader on the challenges ahead. We have a unity in our purpose – to serve every man, woman and child, across this nation. I remain steadfast in my desire to work together, with Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle and the new Administration, to do what’s right for my constituents and this country.” # # #
01.14.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today supported renewing and strengthening the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which extends health care coverage for low-income children. “Although this legislation isn’t perfect, I’m proud to help the states continue to provide for the health care needs of less-fortunate children in our communities,” said Reichert, the founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus. “I’m also pleased that this bill includes a measure I’ve fought for since my first year in office to fix a long-standing funding inequity that prevented Washington State from receiving its rightful share of federal health dollars.” Reichert continued, “Families should never have to choose between putting food on the table and sending their children to the doctor. Renewing SCHIP is an important step, but we must also take this opportunity to renew our commitment to making health care more affordable for individuals, families, and seniors. It is essential that we preserve Americans’ choices of health care coverage and embrace market-oriented solutions that expand access to better quality care while reducing costs.” With the funding fix that Reichert has long fought for and helped secure, Washington State taxpayer dollars will be recommitted to supporting Washington children instead of going to residents of other states. Reichert’s health care accomplishments in the previous Congress include founding and co-chairing the bipartisan Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus; passing an amendment to bolster funds for children’s emergency medical care (H.R. 3043), leading the fight in Congress to significantly increase funding for critical medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and serving on the select Centrist Health Care Coalition, a congressional working group that meets monthly to explore and discuss a range of bipartisan, pragmatic ideas for reforming our health care system. Background on SCHIP The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), established under the Balanced Budget Act (BBA) of 1997, is a state-federal partnership designed to provide low-income children with health insurance—specifically, those children under age 19 from families with incomes under 200 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL), or $42,400 for a family of four in 2008. SCHIP received nearly $40 billion in funding over ten years as part of the BBA, and legislation supported by Reichert and passed by Congress in December 2007 (P.L. 110-173), extended the program through March 2009, while providing additional SCHIP funds for states. # # #
01.09.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement regarding the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ December unemployment report and Boeing’s announcement of pending job cuts: “Today’s grim news confirms what we already know - that the economic troubles we face reach all corners of America, touching individuals, families and businesses alike. Boeing’s announcement highlights just how the pains of the economic downturn are hitting home in Washington State. As one of the premiere employers in our state, Boeing serves as an engine to our economy and our delegation must do what we can to support them during this difficult time. “Our government’s response to the economic downturn must be swift, comprehensive, and targeted to deliver assistance where it can be most effective. This is a time for meaningful solutions and I remain committed to working in a bipartisan manner to enact legislation that creates jobs, aids struggling workers, families, and companies, and restores confidence in our economy.” Reichert is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. # # #
01.09.2009	With the support of Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), the U.S. House of Representatives today passed a resolution recognizing Israel’s right to defend itself against attacks by Hamas, reaffirming the United States’ strong support for Israel, and supporting the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Reichert released the following statement of support for Israel as the attacks in Gaza continue: “I strongly support Israel’s right to defend itself, and am saddened by the innocent loss of life during this conflict. Hamas wrongfully broke a ceasefire agreement with unprovoked violence, and Israel is justified in responding in self-defense. America must stand firmly by Israel to protect freedom, confront terrorism, and seek a peaceful resolution that halts this senseless violence.” # # #
01.07.2009	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that his long-time Chief of Staff, Mike Shields, has been named to the new staff of incoming National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) Chairman Pete Sessions. Shields will become the Director of Special Projects at the NRCC and will oversee the Incumbent Retention Program as a part of his portfolio. The NRCC is a political committee devoted to returning Republicans to the majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am very happy that Mike has been identified by our party’s leadership as someone who can help return House Republicans to the majority,” Reichert said. “His leadership, knowledge and his dedication to the people of the Eighth District will be missed. He made a huge impact in our organization from the beginning of my tenure in Congress. While we’re losing a valued and respected member of the staff, we’re excited to see him grow in this new position, so it’s with mixed feelings that I congratulate him on his new position.” In addition, Reichert announced that Christopher Miller will fill Shields’ position as Chief of Staff, moving up from the position of Deputy Chief of Staff. “I’m thrilled to have Chris Miller step up to lead the Reichert team; Chris has been with me since the beginning of my first term, and we’ll be well-served with Chris at the helm,” Reichert continued. “With his hands-on experience and leadership in this office, he’s more than ready to take on this responsibility as we move into the 111th Congress. He’s fostered a great environment in his tenure and will do a fantastic job as my new Chief.” Miller has served in Reichert’s office since the beginning of his first term in 2005, first serving as his Legislative Director. Miller is a former member of the late Rep. Jennifer Dunn’s staff, and is a native of the Pacific Northwest, growing up in Oregon. Other staff promotions in the office include: Jason Edgar, a native of Issaquah, WA, will be moving to Legislative Director from Senior Legislative Assistant. Marshall Reffett, a native of Redmond, WA, will become a Legislative Assistant. # # #
01.07.2009	After being sworn-in for a third term yesterday, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced his appointment to the House Committee on Ways and Means. The Committee’s jurisdiction puts Reichert on the front line of efforts to address the economic crisis, strengthen our health care system, and enact free trade agreements. “I'm honored to accept an appointment to the Ways and Means Committee and ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work to address the economic crisis facing our nation," said Reichert. "Representing one of the most trade-dependent states in the nation, this assignment will enable me to continue my tireless advocacy for enacting free trade agreements, keeping taxes low for families, businesses, and individuals, and ensuring access to affordable, high quality health care. These are challenging times, and I intend to bring to the Committee the same pragmatic, solution-oriented approach that I employed as the Sheriff of King County and throughout my first two terms in Congress. “The issues before this committee are especially critical to my constituents, who understand the need for open markets, lower taxes, and health care reform. The Eighth District remains an epicenter of small business growth, a home to major U.S. employers, and a hotbed of medical research, biotechnology and medical device innovation. I’m excited to carry on the Ways and Means legacy of long-time Eighth District Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn and to join my colleague from Washington, Jim McDermott, to begin the work of the 111th Congress at a critical time in our nation’s history.” “I’m excited to welcome Dave Reichert to the Ways and Means Committee,” said Dave Camp, the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “As we work vigorously to address the economic downturn, Dave’s proven leadership on trade issues over the past four years will be a tremendous asset to the committee as we look to open new markets to trade. I look forward to Dave’s strong advocacy as we tackle critical economic issues including health care reform, trade and tax policy.” Among many issues, the House Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over trade, tax, and health care policy. For more information, visit https://waysandmeans.house.gov/. Each representative from the Eighth District of Washington has been seated on this committee, since the inception of the seat in 1980. To learn more about Reichert and the Eighth District, visit https://reichert.house.gov. # # #
11.11.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement honoring our nation's veterans: "We owe our veterans our gratitude each and every day – but today we take pause solely to thank them, to reflect upon their sacrifices for our freedom. Our country's recent historic election was made possible by those who wear our nation's uniform, and by those who have gone before them. As we transition to a new administration and begin the 111th Congress, I will continue to fight for the benefits our veterans have earned and deserve.” # # #
10.16.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today received a 100% score from the Humane Society on legislation support and votes during the 110th Congress. Issues considered in the scorecard include horse slaughter, downed animals, puppy mills, animal fighting, and polar bear protection among others. “Be it cracking down on dog fighting, advocating for the protection of families’ beloved pets from theft and harm or ensuring the end of the cruel treatment of wildlife or farm animals, I am committed to supporting and advancing legislation that encourages the humane treatment of all animals," said Reichert. Reichert was also named a “Legislative Leader” by the Humane Society for his role in introducing important animal protection legislation. Reichert joined a bipartisan group of House colleagues to introduce the Great Ape Protection Act (H.R 5852), which calls for the end of cruel, invasive research on chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas and other primates. Other Washington State House Reps. receiving 100% scores were Norm Dicks (WA-06) and Jay Inslee (WA-01). Background on the Scorecard from the Humane Society The Humane Society Legislative Fund publishes an annual Humane Scorecard to measure the support of federal legislators for a broad range of animal protection issues. For the 110th Congress (2007-2008), this Scorecard provides an easy way for constituents to assess how their U.S. Senators and Representatives acted on these issues. The Humane Society Legislative Fund (HSLF), formed in 2004, is a social welfare organization which works to pass animal protection laws at the state and federal levels and to educate the public about animal protection issues. Link to 2008 Humane Society Scorecard: https://www.fund.org/pdfs/2008_humane_scorecard.pdf. # # #
10.14.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today praised the signing of his bill, H.R. 6098, the PRICE of Homeland Security Act, into law. “This bill – now law – is a shining example of how bipartisan teamwork can accomplish great things, especially when we work together with other concerned state and local leaders," said Reichert, former Sheriff of King County and member of the House Homeland Security Committee. "Last year, we worked for this funding when we passed the bill implementing the 9/11 recommendations (H.R.1), but the Department of Homeland Security took their own liberties and denied important funding to our first responders, ignoring the intentions of H.R. 1. When we discovered that our first responders in Washington State were going to lose funding because of DHS's blatant disregard for our original legislation, we immediately went to work to write a bill that would leave no question – for DHS or our first responders. “I came to Congress for this very reason – to cut through the red tape of the federal government, work for the needs of my constituents, and bring people together to solve problems,” Reichert continued. “We fought tooth and nail to get this bill through Congress to continue support for first responders, as local budgets struggle to keep local communities safe and also remain vigilant in a post-9/11 world. I'd like to thank Washington Adjutant General Timothy Lowenberg and Chief John Batiste of the Washington State Patrol for supporting this bill and urging other legislators to get behind it, showing them the true need for this funding. I'm pleased to see this bill become law." “Homeland Security is one of the top priorities for sheriffs across the Nation. State and local fusion centers, in partnership with the Federal Government, play an integral part in providing sheriffs critical security information in order to protect their communities,” stated Sheriff David Huffman, Chairman of the National Sheriffs’ Association Homeland Security Committee and Sheriff of Catawba County, North Carolina. “The enactment of H.R. 6098 will allow state and local fusion centers to continue to retain experienced security analysts without fear of losing or being denied valuable funding. Most importantly, H.R. 6098 will allow fusion centers to retain their trained, professional personnel for a longer period of time. Additionally, it will increase the flow of vital communication between the federal, state, and local partners, particularly sheriffs, and allow sheriffs to continue the fight against terrorism and protect our homeland. I commend Congressman Reichert for sponsoring this important legislation and I commend the President for signing it into law.” Fusion centers are designed to help federal, state, and local law enforcement and homeland security officials to share accurate, actionable, and timely information with police and sheriff’s officers working to secure their communities from terrorism. Reichert’s bill received unanimous, bipartisan support through the House and Senate. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) grant guidance on local law enforcement funding ignored the intent of legislation Reichert got passed last year within H.R. 1, the bill which implemented recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The legislation intended for the federal government to continue funding intelligence analysts at fusion centers without a timeline for a cutoff of funding. With the new guidance, funding would be lost after two or three years, depending on requirements met, and would result in a reduction of intelligence analysts in Washington State. Reichert reintroduced the bill to clarify the responsibility of DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion centers,” including the Washington State Joint Analytical Center, which works to protect the state of Washington, but was in danger of losing funding without Reichert’s bill and his work to change the rule. Reichert’s legislation received support from the Major Cities Chiefs Association, headed by Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department, the National Governor’s Association and the National Sheriff’s Association. Reichert’s work to keep communities safe in the 110th Congress includes: · Improving Intelligence Support to State and Local Officials: Successfully passed an amendment for a $10 million increase to fund the Department of Homeland Security Intelligence program that provides key information sharing with state and local officials; · Funding for School Resource Officers: Worked behind the scenes to include important funding for School Resource officers in past Department of Justice funding legislation; · Funding for Public Safety: Successfully passed an amendment that cleared a backlog of death benefits for the families of fallen officers and doubled the funding of the program; and, · Fighting Domestic Violence: Successfully passed an amendment to fully fund a program that helps courts keep victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse safe. More: 09/23/2008: Congressional Quarterly: Reichert House-Passed Legislation Clears Senate Panel 07/29/2008: Reichert Homeland Security Legislation Passes House 06/11/2008: Reichert Law Enforcement “Fusion Center” Legislation Sails Through His Subcommittee 06/02/2008: VIDEO, KIRO TV: Budget Cuts Threaten Anti-Terrorism Center 06/02/2008: Tacoma News Tribune: Federal cuts could hinder anti-terrorism efforts here 05/25/2008: Albany Times-Union: Anti-terror funding cut; Lawmakers question U.S. decision to cap pay for information centers 05/19/2008: Reichert Counters DHS Move on Local Intelligence Funding 03/20/2008: Reichert Letter to Dept. of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget # # #
10.14.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) this week will call on AIG to return money to the federal government after the news that the insurance giant spent over $440,000 on a lavish spa retreat for executives at a resort in Monarch Beach, CA, if proven that AIG used taxpayer dollars. AIG recently received an $85 billion loan of taxpayer dollars from the federal government. "At a time when American taxpayers are concerned about their next paycheck and are at risk after the federal government has spent almost a trillion dollars bailing out Wall Street, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, this is unacceptable," said Reichert. "AIG has slapped taxpayers in the face and we call on them to return any and all improperly spent taxpayer dollars. The company must be held accountable. “I did not vote for the $200 billion Fannie-Freddie bailout, or the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, precisely because I was worried that there is not enough oversight measures included in the legislation. Now we see these reports and it disgusts me. People in our country are hurting, their retirement funds are disappearing, and these executives take advantage of them. Now that the other bailout packages have passed, I will go back to Congress later this year and into the next and continue to ensure that they have the proper oversight and accountability built into them so that this cannot happen again.” Text of the letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke follows. The letter will be sent this week. # # # October 2008 The Honorable Henry J. Paulson, Jr. The Honorable Ben S. Bernanke Secretary of the Treasury Chairman, Federal Reserve Board of Governors 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Twentieth Street & Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20220 Washington, DC 20551 Dear Secretary Paulson and Chairman Bernanke: We write to express strong concerns about AIG's possible misuse of federal taxpayer funds. It has come to our attention that, after the Federal Government provided a loan of $85 billion to AIG, the AIG executives hosted a lavish $440,000 retreat at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California. Even more troubling, the day after this was revealed to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the New York branch of the Federal Reserve announced it will borrow $37.8 billion in investment-grade securities from AIG in exchange for cash. At a time when many of our constituents have serious concerns about their own financial security, we demand that you ensure that no taxpayer funds were used by AIG to host this retreat. If taxpayer funds were used, we demand that AIG repay the American people in full. It is crucial that the American people be able to trust the actions of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. # # #
10.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) opposed the Senate-tweaked economic bail-out legislation when it came before the House of Representatives today. The measure, nearly identical to the original version Reichert opposed on Monday, passed by a vote of 263 to 171. “It is imperative that we act to ensure that middle class families and entrepreneurs have access to credit, so that they can buy homes, put children through college, grow businesses, and create jobs,” said Reichert. “There’s a better way to get this done than to rush to authorize an unprecedented sum of taxpayer dollars for which we have little assurance that it addresses the real illness in our financial system, and not just a symptom of it. This proposed remedy could be more harmful than the illness. “In an effort to secure new votes for the bailout, the Senate also added many provisions that other Members and I have long championed, like extensions of the state sales tax deduction, child tax credit, and funding for rural schools. They even tacked on legislation I helped author to aid victims of the Exxon Valdez oil spill secure their retirements. But at the end of the day, this remained a vote on a virtually unchanged bailout package that I opposed earlier in the week, and which did not include many of the improvements I advocated for to better protect taxpayer dollars, utilize private capital, and improve oversight of the funds. “Furthermore, to get our economy back on track, we must address our nation’s lack of a comprehensive energy policy, skyrocketing health care costs, needs for improvement in education for a strong workforce, stalled trade agreements, and keeping taxes low.” Reichert was pleased that the Senate package included an increase in FDIC insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 that he sought and helped introduce even before consideration of the first bailout bill. He continued to advocate for alternative proposals throughout the week, communicating with House Leadership and other policymakers to call for greater restrictions on the Treasury authority and solutions that employed private capital, not taxpayer dollars. Unfortunately, House Leadership did not permit any alternative measures to be considered on the floor prior to the vote. Reichert spent the week gathering information, evaluating dozens of proposals, and carefully deliberating the package. He met with and solicited input from Republican and Democratic lawmakers, leading economists and financial experts, Treasury Secretary Paulson and senior Administration officials, members of his 8th District Economic Advisory Committee, and heard from thousands of constituents. # # #
09.29.2008	Legislation authored by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) cleared the final hurdles today to go to the President’s desk for signature, to be signed into law. H.R. 6098, the PRICE of Homeland Security Act passed through the Senate Saturday and then received final approval from the House today after its initial passage on July 29, 2008. The bill ensures critical funding for law enforcement fusion centers, including the Washington Joint Analytical Center whose funding for analysts is endangered without a change in law. "Protecting our homeland begins with the state and local law enforcement on the front line, and no one understands that better than Dave Reichert,�? said Rep. Peter King (NY-03), Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee. “Passage of this major legislation is not only a victory for Dave, who was relentless in fighting for these fusion centers, but it’s a victory for every cop on the beat who relies on the best intelligence to keep our communities safe. I commend Congressman Reichert for all his hard work; he is truly an incredible advocate for law enforcement agencies across this country.�? Reichert made phone calls to the Senate late last week to get the bill passed through the Senate and to leadership on both sides to achieve final passage in the House before Congress recessed for the year. “This bill’s passage and getting it signed into law was one of my top priorities, and getting it through both Houses of Congress is a true achievement not only for first responders of Washington State, but for first responders across the country,�? said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence and former Sheriff of King County, Washington. “We fought tooth and nail to get this bill through Congress to continue support for first responders, as local budgets struggle to not only keep their local community safe, but be ever-vigilant in a post-9/11 world. One of the primary reasons I came to Congress was to ensure that the federal government is a true partner with local law enforcement. Federal law enforcement can’t do its job without local law enforcement and accordingly, must give them the federal resources they need to get the job done. I can’t say enough about how much this bill will mean to our first responder communities, especially those in Washington State, and I’d like to thank Washington Adjutant General Timothy Lowenberg and Chief John Batiste of the Washington State Patrol for supporting this bill and urging other legislators to get behind it and showing them the true need for this funding. I urge the President to swiftly sign this bill into law.�? Fusion centers are designed to help federal, state, and local law enforcement and homeland security officials to share accurate, actionable, and timely information with police and sheriff’s officers working to secure their communities from terrorism. Reichert’s bill received unanimous, bipartisan support through the House and Senate committee process. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) grant guidance on local law enforcement funding ignored the intent of legislation Reichert got passed last year within H.R. 1, the bill which implemented recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The legislation intended for the federal government to continue funding intelligence analysts at fusion centers without a timeline for a cutoff of funding. With the new guidance, funding would be lost after two or three years, depending on requirements met, and would result in a reduction of intelligence analysts in Washington State. Reichert reintroduced the bill to clarify the responsibility of DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion centers,�? including the Washington State Joint Analytical Center, which works to protect the state of Washington, but was in danger of losing funding without Reichert’s bill and his work to change the rule. Reichert’s legislation received support from the Major Cities Chiefs Association, headed by Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department, the National Governor’s Association and the National Sheriff’s Association. Reichert’s work to keep communities safe in the 110th Congress includes: Improving our Intelligence Gathering: Successfully passed an amendment for a $10 million increase to fund the Department of Homeland Security Intelligence program that provides key information sharing with state and local officials; Funding for School Resource Officers: Worked behind the scenes to include important funding for School Resource officers in past Department of Justice funding legislation; Funding for Public Safety: Successfully passed an amendment that cleared a backlog of death benefits for the families of fallen officers and doubled the funding of the program; and, Fighting Domestic Violence: Successfully passed an amendment to fully fund a program that helps courts keep victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse safe. More: 09/23/2008: Congressional Quarterly: Reichert House-Passed Legislation Clears Senate Panel 07/29/2008: Reichert Homeland Security Legislation Passes House VIDEO, KIRO TV: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czmaLsCZHEQ 06/11/2008: Reichert Law Enforcement “Fusion Center�? Legislation Sails Through His Subcommittee 06/02/2008: VIDEO, KIRO TV: Budget Cuts Threaten Anti-Terrorism Center 06/02/2008: Tacoma News Tribune: Federal cuts could hinder anti-terrorism efforts here 05/25/2008: Albany Times-Union: Anti-terror funding cut; Lawmakers question U.S. decision to cap pay for information centers 05/19/2008: Reichert Counters DHS Move on Local Intelligence Funding  03/20/2008: Reichert Letter to Dept. of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget # # #
09.29.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to protect taxpayers by opposing the authorization of $700 billion to buy troubled assets. The House rejected the measure by a vote of 205-228. “Undeniably, action is necessary to address the crisis in our financial markets and ensure that credit remains available for middle class families to buy homes and put their children through college. That’s evident by the daily fluctuations in the market. I’m hopeful that Congress will soon consider a modified version of the bill that was rejected today that will stabilize markets, utilize more private capital, and bring new oversight, reform, and accountability while protecting taxpayers. "It’s more important to get this legislation right than to act in haste. Panic on Wall Street brought us to this point, and we cannot let panic in Congress push through a remedy that is worse than the illness. Instead of a $700 billion blank check, we need a comprehensive package that helps Wall Street recover with more private capital, not taxpayer dollars; that holds accountable the bad actors who contributed to this crisis; and that enforces existing laws while modernizing outdated ones. "Congress has already approved $200 billion to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $85 billion bailing out AIG; what assurance do we have that this $700 billion gamble isn’t just another roll of the dice at taxpayer expense?” Reichert was concerned that the package did not go far enough to curb executive compensation, did not contain appropriate oversight and enforcement, and did not require Wall Street to contribute what it should to the rescue. He was especially concerned that this proposal did not include any long-term planning for our fiscal future, particularly for how to fulfill our promise to provide benefits owed to our seniors like Medicare and Social Security. Reichert spent the week gathering information, evaluating dozens of proposals, and carefully deliberating the package. He met with and solicited input from Republican and Democratic lawmakers, leading economists and financial experts, Treasury Secretary Paulson and senior Administration officials, members of his 8th District Economic Advisory Committee, and heard from thousands of constituents. # # #
08.05.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced legislation late last week that would allow advanced biofuels to replace petroleum in the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The Promoting Real Opportunities for Energy Security Act (PRO Energy Security Act), H.R.6823, would give the Secretary of Energy the authority to acquire advanced biofuels for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) instead of crude oil. The option to acquire advanced biofuels would be triggered if the price of oil stays above $75 a barrel for 3 consecutive days. This would provide a stable market for advanced biofuels and promote further research and development to bridge to our nation’s energy independent future. "We all understand that we must move away from an oil-based economy. This legislation is a step government can take to help spur domestic production of alternative fuels,” Reichert said. “Easing the pain at the pump for families, consumers and businesses comes through action, and a multifaceted approach. This legislation serves as a catalyst for important energy research and development. The government can be an ideal investment partner by giving financial security to researchers and investors to develop alternative energy by creating additional demand. American innovation is the key to our cleaner, more secure energy future and this bill can help us get there. And what better way to help make our energy policy more secure than using the Strategic Petroleum Reserve itself to create a market that will help get us off of foreign oil.” Reichert’s recent work on energy policy and independence focuses on a multifaceted plan with short-, mid- and long-term solutions to wean the country off of, fossil fuels – in particular, from foreign sources – to cleaner, renewable domestic sources such as plug-in hybrids and by utilizing options available now, such as the promotion of mass transit. In recent weeks, Reichert’s legislative action on the energy crisis includes: Got a transportation amendment passed (June 26, 2008) as part of the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008 (H.R. 6052), that promotes mass transit use by providing additional funds for bus park-and-ride lots to better serve suburban commuters; and, Got an amendment passed through the Science and Technology Committee (July 16, 2008) that advances the development of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, a critical alternative energy source for the Pacific Northwest. For more information on Reichert’s work on energy, visit https://reichert.house.gov. # # #
07.30.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) responded today after learning of politically-biased radio advertisements attacking The Boeing Company, sponsored by a group calling itself “Alabamians to Build American Tankers.” Reichert issued the following statement: "This unfair attack against Boeing, and specifically Washington State, is malicious and should be taken off the air. I was at Boeing the day the announcement was made in February that Airbus had initially won and saw the disappointment on the faces of the hardworking employees. I truly got the sense of what a family Boeing is and how painful this process had become to them. Inserting political statements and attack ads into this process is not only disrespectful, but a deceitful attempt to tamper with a government process that has already been troubling in the past. We already have enough divisive attack ads in our country; we don’t need to see them surrounding this issue – particularly false and misleading ads like these. “As the Government Accountability Office concluded on June 18, 2008, the Air Force made multiple errors in the initial selection. These attack ads are a direct assault on the 20,000-plus Boeing employees living in my district who only want a fair shot. These employees are some of the finest workers our country has ever produced, with a long tradition of excellence and innovation. We should all join together in being proud of how their products represent the best of America, not attack them because they are from another state! We are all Americans, after all. “I believe that the group responsible for this ad should apologize to every Boeing worker and I urge my colleagues in the Washington State, Kansas and Alabama delegations to join me in calling for these ads to be taken down so that the bidding process can carry on in a fair, responsible and respectful manner. These ads are beneath the dignity of the country these tankers will ultimately serve.” Politico’s “The Crypt” blog has the audio of the advertisements played today on NewsTalk 630 WMAL, an AM radio station in Washington, D.C. URL: https://www.politico.com/blogs/thecrypt/0708/A_new_low_in_tanker_fight.html?showall # # #
07.30.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) got legislation passed today that will help retain critical funding for law enforcement fusion centers, which bring together local, state and federal law enforcement officials to gather law enforcement information in the fight against terrorism. Reichert’s bill, the PRICE of Homeland Security Act, received unanimous, bipartisan support through the U.S. House of Representatives. “The House today showed true-blue support to our first responders by passing this bill,” said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Intelligence and former Sheriff of King County, Washington. “Local budgets are stretched thin as they fight local crime while also working with federal partners to prevent terrorism in a post-9/11 world. One of the primary reasons I came to Congress was to ensure that the federal government is a true partner with local law enforcement. Federal law enforcement can’t do its job without local law enforcement and accordingly, must give them the federal resources they need to get the job done. I will continue to fight for this bill to become law, working with the Senate, with pending cuts looming this October. We’re a step closer, but we need to finish the job.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) recent grant guidance on funding ignored the intent of legislation Reichert got passed last year within H.R. 1, the bill which implemented recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The legislation intended for the federal government to continue funding intelligence analysts at fusion centers without a timeline for cutoff. With the new guidance, funding would be lost after two or three years, depending on requirements met, and would result in a reduction of intelligence analysts in Washington State. Reichert reintroduced the bill to clarify the responsibility of DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion centers,” including the Washington State Joint Analytical Center, which works to protect the state of Washington, but is in danger of losing funding without Reichert’s bill. On June 11, the bill passed through the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment. The bill unanimously passed the House Committee on Homeland Security on June 26, 2008. Reichert’s legislation has received support from the Major Cities Chiefs Association, headed by Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department, the National Governor’s Association and the National Sheriff’s Association. Companion legislation has yet to be introduced in the Senate. More: TODAY: VIDEO, KIRO TV: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czmaLsCZHEQ 06/11/2008: Reichert Law Enforcement “Fusion Center” Legislation Sails Through His Subcommittee 06/02/2008: VIDEO, KIRO TV: Budget Cuts Threaten Anti-Terrorism Center 06/02/2008: Tacoma News Tribune: Federal cuts could hinder anti-terrorism efforts here 05/25/2008: Albany Times-Union: Anti-terror funding cut; Lawmakers question U.S. decision to cap pay for information centers 05/19/2008: Reichert Counters DHS Move on Local Intelligence Funding 03/20/2008: Reichert Letter to Dept. of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget # # #
07.29.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following statement in response to the decision by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to ban Iraq from the Olympic Games in Beijing: “The International Olympic Committee’s decision to ban Iraqi athletes from participating in the Summer Games undermines the true spirit of the Olympics, where countries put aside their differences to find common ground in celebrating the centuries-old tradition of athletic competition. This doesn't have anything to do with war or peace or politics - this is about young people’s dreams of competition and an opportunity for the Iraqi people to celebrate their new nationhood on the world stage. “These courageous Iraqi athletes have triumphed over persecution from torturous regimes, and today are struggling to keep the peace and bring hope to their newly democratic country. What message does it send them, the Iraqi people, and the world if these seven athletes are denied access to the Olympiad because of a bureaucratic decision? It will be a disgrace to the international community if countries with terrible human rights records are permitted to take part in the games and yet these athletes are robbed of their dreams. They have earned the right to compete in Beijing and deserve the opportunity to demonstrate to the world their strength, perseverance, and commitment to a better Iraq and a brighter future. “I join with others who are dismayed by this decision, and call on President Bush and leaders of other free nations to urge the IOC to reverse their decision today and allow an emerging democracy, its people, and its athletes to come together with the rest of the world.” # # #
07.24.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced important security funding for non-profit groups in Washington State. The Department of Homeland Security is granting $295,313 to the Seattle area, a reduction from last year’s $543,944. Under the Fiscal Year 2008 Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), the total nationwide grant funding shrunk from $25 million to $15 million. “With unfortunate firsthand experience, the Puget Sound area particularly understands the need for non-profits to be protected,” said Reichert. “Groups such as the Jewish Federation utilize federal funding to protect their participants, staff and others, who are at risk. With the abrupt end to the Haq trial recently, the issue still weighs on our minds, and I’m pleased to see additional funding coming to our area to protect families and workers.” Non-profits in Seattle receiving funding include: Jewish Federation of Greater Seattle: $75,000 Congregation of Beth Shalom: $70,313 Congregation of Ezra Bessaroth: $75,000 Temple De Hirsch: $75,000 The grants are awarded to eligible 501(c)(3) organizations at high risk of international terrorist attack in high risk Urban Areas. Eligibility was limited to organizations located in UASI sites. Grants are being awarded through eligible State Administering Agencies according to criteria that include: (1) prior threats or attacks by a terrorist organization, (2) symbolic value of a site that renders it a possible terrorist target, (3) the organization’s role in responding to or recovering from terrorist attacks, and (4) the organization’s threat, vulnerability and/or consequence as determined by a previously conducted risk assessment. Other funding announced by Congressman Reichert include: Washington State through the State Homeland Security Grant Program: $19,780,000 Seattle/Bellevue through the Urban Area Security Initiative Program: $10,340,000 Seattle/Bellevue through the Regional Catastrophic Preparedness Grant Program: $3,662,569 For more information on these grant programs, visit https://www.fema.gov/. # # #
07.24.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in favor of transportation legislation to boost the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) by $8 billion and bring much-needed funding to bridges and transportation infrastructure across the country. The legislation ensures full funding of the highway and public transportation investment levels authorized by the 2005 transportation legislation, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFE TEA-LU). The $8 billion funding boost is essentially a repayment from the General Treasury Fund from dollars it borrowed in 1990 from the HTF when the HTF had a surplus. “Washington State is in dire need of transportation funding, with record congestion and bridges such as 520 and the Alaskan Way Viaduct needing upgrades,” said Reichert. “Now, with gas prices at record highs, people are driving less and conserving on fuel. Because of this conservation on the roads, revenues normally coming in to provide for repair and construction of our transportation systems is sliding downwards, and this funding will assist in maintaining the necessary level of funds until the Highway Trust Fund’s outdated financing mechanism can be restructured.” The bill will save over $207 million to Washington State and over 7,000 related jobs. HTF revenues are falling behind from projections made in 2005, and without this legislation, the American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials have estimated that the shortfall could lead to a loss nationwide of nearly 380,000 jobs. # # #
07.22.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today passed a bipartisan amendment out of the House Committee on Science and Technology that advances the development of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, a critical alternative energy source for the Pacific Northwest. The amendment was lauded by members on both sides of the aisle as an important step toward providing real solutions for our nation’s energy crisis. “It is essential that we develop alternative and renewable forms of energy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, secure our nation’s energy future, and begin to ease consumers’ pain at the pump,” said Reichert. “My amendment will promote the development of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles and ensure that our nation’s electric power grid is adequately prepared to handle the increasing use of plug-in hybrids. This technology is here, it is becoming increasingly commercially viable, and we must do all that we can to encourage the widespread use of this important alternative to gas-guzzling cars, trucks and SUVs.” Reichert’s amendment establishes a pilot program to promote the widespread use of plug-in hybrids by testing their impact on our nation’s electric power grid. The research would be carried out through the Department of Energy’s National Laboratory System, which could include the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in Richland, WA. Members on both sides of the aisle were quick to praise the importance of the amendment, as were renewable energy experts from the Pacific Northwest. “It’s clear to me that use of plug-in hybrids is going to have a large impact on our national electric system, and it’s incumbent upon us to understand what that impact is going to be and how to deal with it, because it offers us an opportunity to use vehicles as a storage mechanism for energy so I applaud the amendment and offer my support,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney (D-CA). “This amendment is so important to improving the use of plug-in hybrids…furthering our conservation and improving our use of gasoline,” said Congresswoman Judy Biggert (R-IL). "It is essential to break the near total monopoly of oil in transportation,” said Steve Marshall, Senior Fellow, Cascadia Center for Regional Development. “There is nothing that can do more good more quickly than by advancing plug-in cars and trucks that connect to the power grid. This legislation, and the amendment by Congressman Reichert, is a good step toward the day when we have a choice to use domestic electric power instead of foreign oil in our cars and trucks." # # #
07.14.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today hailed new data showing that the Bellevue-Seattle-Tacoma Metropolitan Area is the fourth largest export market in the nation. Through just the first half of 2007, sales of Seattle products in the global marketplace totaled $25.1 billion, nearly matching the entire sum for the area less than two years ago ($30.1 billion). “These surging exports demonstrate the critical importance of free trade to economic growth and job creation in King and Pierce counties,” said Reichert. “In this time of economic uncertainty, it’s imperative that we continue to open markets for Washington State goods and services. Our local economy is becoming more, not less, dependent on trade. If we are going to remain competitive we must enact pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea to grow our economy, create more jobs, and strengthen diplomatic relations with strategic allies. These agreements are too important to allow them to languish while Congress plays election-year politics with trade policy.” U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez commented, “Opening new markets for Seattle’s exporters will further bolster the metropolitan area trade and support local jobs.” Reichert remains a staunch advocate for free and fair trade. He has called on the Washington State congressional delegation to unite and urge House leadership to bring these pending trade agreements to the floor for votes. He also recently traveled to Colombia with U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab on a bipartisan delegation to meet with President Alvaro Uribe, labor unions, disarmed paramilitaries, and local officials to get a firsthand look at the impact free trade would have on Colombia, its developing democracy, and its efforts to thwart the destabilizing influence of Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez. The Bellevue-Seattle-Tacoma metropolitan region is comprised of Seattle, Tacoma, Bellevue, Everett, Kent, Renton, King County, Snohomish County, and Pierce County for statistical purposes. The area trailed only New York, Houston, and Los Angeles in terms of goods exported through the first half of 2007. Japan, China, and Canada were the leading export destinations for Northwest goods. The data were compiled by the U.S. Department of Commerce, which measures the value of merchandise goods for 369 metropolitan areas across the nation. Service export values were not included in this data series. More information is available at www.trade.gov/metrodata. More: 07/10/2008: Reichert Letter to the Editor in the Seattle Post-Intelligencer: Talk Trade 05/14/2008: Delegation letter to Pelosi on the Korea Free Trade Agreement (5-14-2008) (pdf) 04/10/2008: Reichert Op-Ed in the Seattle Times: Colombia Free-Trade Pact Should be Approved 04/09/2008: Delegation Letter to Governor Gregoire on Colombia Free Trade Agreement (4-09-2008) (pdf) 04/09/2008: Delegation Letter to Pelosi on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement (4-09-2008) (pdf) # # #
07.09.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today after Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced that the Air Force would re-bid the contract for the KC-X Tanker: “Secretary Gates is making the right call today on allowing Boeing a fair shake at this contract – and I believe if given a fair chance, Boeing will build the Air Force’s new KC-767 Tankers fueling critical military equipment. We all know that Boeing’s employees are second to none and if given an even playing field, they can beat anyone. I hope in this new process the Air Force will take into account the national security implications of using a foreign company to supply our military, as well as the recommendations laid out by the Government Accountability Office.” On June 18, 2008, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) upheld Boeing’s protest of the Air Force’s decision to award the tanker contract to Airbus/EADS. More: 06/18/2008: Reichert Lauds GAO’s Decision Upholding Boeing Protest 05/14/2008: In Wake of Tanker Decision, Reichert, Hare Ask House Leaders to Address National and Economic Security Concern 04/03/2008: Reichert Expresses Opposition to Tanker Decision 03/18/2008: Reichert Seeks Input on Tanker Decision 02/29/2008: Statement by Murray, Cantwell, Dicks, Larsen, Inslee, Smith, McDermott and Reichert on Tanker Decision # # #
06.26.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) amendment to ease congestion, help the environment, and save commuters from high gas prices unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. Reichert’s amendment to the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008 (H.R. 6052) promotes mass transit use by providing additional funds for bus park-and-ride lots to better serve suburban commuters. As Americans’ use of mass transit continues to rise with the price of gasoline, Reichert’s amendment was hailed by members of both parties as a common-sense solution to ease their pain at the pump. “This amendment enables suburban commuters to take advantage of the benefits of mass transit, avoiding both congestion and another expensive trip to the gas station,” said Reichert. “Eastside commuters are increasingly using the convenience of park-and-ride transit to make their daily trip to work. I’m pleased that both parties came together to support this common-sense solution that will help alleviate gridlock and the pain at the pump. Every step we can take to ease the pain of high energy prices chips away at the problems this country faces both today and in the future.” Speaking on his amendment during floor debate, Reichert stated, “Like every community, people in the Puget Sound Region in Washington State are parking their cars and taking transit more often. In my district alone, the number of people who rode Sound Transit's buses and trains in 2007 increased by nearly six times the nationwide increase. In the first quarter of 2008, the express bus service connecting two suburbs of Seattle, Lynnwood, Washington with Bellevue, Washington, grew by 31% from the first quarter of 2007! Ridership on Sound Transit's service between Everett, Washington and Bellevue, Washington is up 24%, and ridership between Federal Way and the Microsoft campus in Redmond is up 12%.” Transit systems serving suburban commuters that travel longer distances from relatively distant suburban locations to central business districts have found that increasing commuter bus park-and-ride availability directly increases transit ridership on these routes. Expanding these parking facilities is a way to incentivize transit systems and the communities they service to increase their suburban park-and-ride lot capacity, and therefore increase the use of transit. Rep. James Oberstar (D-MN), Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, complimented Reichert, saying, “I commend the gentleman on his statement, very thoughtfully done to increase the federal share for parking facilities that serve commuter bus routes.” The average price of a gallon of gasoline in Washington State today rose to $4.34, up from $4.02 one month ago, and from $3.11 last year. H.R. 6052 authorizes $1.7 billion in funding for federal grants for public transit systems to improve transportation services. The funding is authorized over two years in grants that transit agencies could use to reduce fares and expand services. H.R. 6052 passed the House by a vote of 322-98. Reichert is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. # # #
06.26.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) legislation on law enforcement funding is ready for a vote on the House Floor. Reichert’s bill, the PRICE of Homeland Security Act, roared easily through the full Committee on Homeland Security, receiving unanimous support from the 33 bipartisan members of the Committee. Introduced in May, the legislation authored by Reichert has moved swiftly because of his work to gain support and the importance of its implementation to the security of the country, because of the work done by the fusion centers in danger of losing funding without this bill. Responding to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) recent grant guidance on funding that ignores the intent of legislation Reichert got passed last year and reduce the number of intelligence analysts in Washington State, Reichert reintroduced the bill to clarify the responsibility of DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion centers,” including the Washington State Joint Analytical Center, which works to protect the state of Washington, but is in danger of losing funding without Reichert’s bill. On June 11, the bill passed through the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment. “By moving this bill, the Committee has sent the message to our first responders – that we recognize the important work they do and we won’t allow these fusion centers to shut down,” said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Intelligence and former Sheriff of King County, Washington. “I’m pleased that Chairman Bennie Thompson and Ranking Member Peter King allowed this bill to move forward. Local budgets are feeling the crunch as they fight local crimes while working with federal partners to prevent terrorism. One of the primary reasons I came to Congress was to ensure that the federal government is a true partner of law enforcement. We will continue to fight for this bill to become law, as the pending cuts loom in October of this year.” “I commend Congressman Reichert for all his hard work on this vital piece of homeland security legislation,” Congressman Peter T. King, Ranking Member on the Committee on Homeland Security said. “No one understands the needs of local law enforcement better than Dave. He knows that in the fight against terrorism we all rely on the work of these fusion centers and our state and local partners. This bill will help ensure we have the boots on the ground needed to keep our communities safe.” Reichert’s legislation has received support from the Major Cities Chiefs Association, headed by Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department, and the National Sheriff’s Association. The Major Cities Chiefs Association letter of support is attached. More: 06/11/2008: Reichert Law Enforcement “Fusion Center” Legislation Sails Through His Subcommittee 06/02/2008: VIDEO, KIRO TV: Budget Cuts Threaten Anti-Terrorism Center 06/02/2008: Tacoma News Tribune: Federal cuts could hinder anti-terrorism efforts here 05/25/2008: Albany Times-Union: Anti-terror funding cut; Lawmakers question U.S. decision to cap pay for information centers 05/19/2008: Reichert Counters DHS Move on Local Intelligence Funding 03/20/2008: Reichert Letter to Dept. of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget # # #
06.25.2008	The U.S. Supreme Court decision against the death penalty for child rapists shows that there is a need for a federal law to give life sentences for these predators, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) said today. He has introduced legislation, the “Lock Up Child Rapists Now Act,�? to provide mandatory life imprisonment for child rapists. “I respect the Court’s decision regarding the death penalty for child rapists. But we need stricter laws than what are currently in place to protect children from these predators. Enough is enough. We have seen too many stories of repeat offenders ruining the lives of our children because we have not yet had the courage to do the right thing by locking them up for life. This deters potential offenders with the threat of a life-sentence, and will put offenders behind bars for good so our children are safe, parents are reassured that we are doing what we can to prevent crime, and future offenders know that they will spend the rest of their lives behind bars if they commit the most heinous crime.�? Reichert’s legislation (H.R. 6050) provides mandatory life imprisonment for adults convicted of raping a child under the age of 12 years. According to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN), 15% of known sexual assault and rape victims are under 12 years old, and 46% of rapists released from prison are rearrested within 3 years of their conviction. H.R. 6050 protects our children by keeping these offenders off the streets and behind bars. # # #
06.25.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today supported a significant funding increase for state and local law enforcement. Reichert praised the passage of H.R. 3546, which provides a $490 million increase for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) program, funds for which Reichert has long advocated and funding that is critical to fighting drugs, gangs, and violent crime in local communities. “We must give our police officers the resources they need to do their jobs and continue to keep our communities and our nation safe,” Reichert said. “It is unacceptable to turn our backs on law enforcement if we want to adequately fight the spread of drugs like Meth. These emergency funds will significantly aid our local law enforcement agencies in eradicating drugs and gangs from our neighborhoods and keeping our children safe.” Funding for the Byrne JAG program was cut by two-thirds in the previous fiscal year. The $490 million increase restores funding to the level that passed both the House and Senate last year. Washington State would lose over $5 million in funds if these cuts were not restored; seriously impeding local law enforcement’s ability to combat and prevent crime in our communities. These grants support multi-jurisdictional drug and gang task forces and especially help combat drug and gang activity in small towns and rural communities. Congressman Reichert is a long-time champion of the Byrne JAG program. He previously advocated for the inclusion of $429.6 million for the Byrne JAG program in the emergency supplemental spending bill, and in 2005, helped pass an amendment to increase funding for the program by $25 million. Reichert serves on the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. # # # *This release has been corrected from it's original version to reflect the passage of Reichert's amendment in 2005.
06.25.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement on the ruling by the United States Supreme Court to reduce the damages awarded to the victims of the March 1989 oil spill of the Exxon Valdez: “I am sad to hear that the amount of money owed to the victims of the Exxon Valdez spill has been reduced. These innocent Americans have suffered two tragedies; first being the victim of an oil spill, second being the victim of a legal system that allows a corporation to shirk their responsibilities by using legal delays. “But those delays are now over. There are no more excuses for ExxonMobil to fall back on; they must now pay the victims of this disaster what they are owed. “One-third of the victims have passed away while ExxonMobil delayed their way out of paying for the damage they caused to families and businesses when 11 million gallons of their oil spilled in 1989. Exxon is not vindicated in their delay tactics – they were wrong and have been proven legally liable for what they did. “This ruling adds to the obligation we have to pass legislation I haven introduced that creates preferential tax treatment to the victims final awards, so these victims can get the most out of what’s paid to them. It’s the least we can do to step in and right some of the wrongs that have been committed.�? The Associated Press estimates nearly 33,000 Alaskans are in line to share in the award, about $15,000 a person. Since coming to Congress in 2005, Reichert has been an advocate for justice for the victims of the oil spill, and introduced legislation to allow them to maximize the value of the damages received (H.R. 1334). The measure allows fishermen and others involved in the Exxon Valdez oil spill litigation to average their income for federal tax purposes dating back to 1994, the year of the original settlement. It also gives them the opportunity to contribute any future financial awards from the litigation into retirement accounts. By the numbers: $4.5 billion – Original punitive damages awarded by a federal jury $2.5 billion – 2006 punitive damages awarded by 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals $25 million – punitive damages Exxon claims it should pay 33,000 – estimated unpaid plaintiffs 11 million – gallons of crude spilled into Prince William Sound 1,300 – miles of once pristine coastline damaged 2,800 – sea otters killed by spill* 35,000 – birds killed by spill* *Estimate by Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council More: 04/02/2008: Reichert Floor Speech: Exxon Mobil’s Recklessness 02/27/2008: Reichert Congress Blog Post: Supreme Court Hears Exxon Valdez Case 03/27/2007: D.C. notebook | Bill tosses belated lifeline to spill victims 03/07/2007: Reichert and Young Introduce Bill to Protect Retiring Exxon Valdez Victims 01/08/2007: Reichert Continues Fighting for Victims of Exxon Valdez 03/25/2006: Reichert wants the heat on Exxon for Valdez oil spill # # #
06.24.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to preserve seniors’ access to Medicare services. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (H.R. 6331) protects doctors’ Medicare reimbursement from cuts set to take effect on Monday, making certain that seniors are not turned away from care because of inadequate physician payments. The measure passed the House by a vote of 355-59 with the unanimous support of the Washington State congressional delegation. “We must continue to protect Medicare benefits and ensure that our seniors maintain access to health care,” said Reichert. “It is essential that we adequately reimburse doctors for treating Medicare patients. Seniors should never be turned away from the care they need simply because the government fails to fulfill its obligation. Today’s vote was an important demonstration of the broad, bipartisan support for preventing cuts to physician reimbursement and fixing the broken formula that creates this annual problem.” Reichert added, “I remain frustrated that the search for real solutions for our doctors and seniors continues to be delayed by the political games being played by congressional leadership. This bill contained some objectionable provisions that were included for purely political reasons and that the Senate already indicated will prevent this measure from being signed into law. We can’t permit partisanship to jeopardize seniors’ access to the care they need and deserve.” H.R. 6331 would provide a temporary 18-month patch to the broken physician reimbursement formula that leaves doctors facing significant payment cuts. Physician reimbursement would be cut by 10.6% on July 1 if this temporary payment patch is not enacted. H.R. 6331 would also offer incentives for physicians to prescribe medications electronically and includes the language of a measure Reichert cosponsored to improve care for chronic kidney disease (H.R. 1193). The Senate indicated soon after the House vote that a compromise agreement had been reached that would strike controversial provisions in the measure and speed it toward being signed into law. # # #
06.24.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted last night in favor of legislation to assist veterans returning from active duty who may encounter financial hardships. The National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Act (HR 4044) recognizes the unique financial situations of Guardsmen and Reservists returning from active duty by exempting them from certain bankruptcy filing requirements. “I am firmly committed to doing everything I can to support and honor our veterans, whether it be improving medical care, expanding compensation and benefits, or in this case, helping to ensure a seamless transition from active duty,” said Reichert. “Last week, I proudly supported the new G.I. Bill, which greatly improved veterans’ educational benefits. I’ve worked to solve the difficulties veterans face through my Veterans’ Resource Fairs, legislation I’ve introduced, and by supporting bills that benefit our veterans.” Reichert has authored and supported critical legislation for veterans, including: Reichert’s Veterans’ Job Assistance Bill unanimously passed the House in July 2007. The bill improves the government’s responsiveness to the employment needs of Guardsmen and Reservists returning from active duty; Reichert’s Grave Marker Bill, which was signed into law in December 2007, as part of the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act. Reichert’s bill renews and expands a benefit for veterans to ensure that all veterans will receive headstones or grave markers recognizing their service to our country at no cost to their families. Assistance for wounded warriors: voted for legislation to expedite and improve the benefits and claims process, require the Department of Defense and Veterans' Affairs to establish a single medical information system, and enhance oversight of military medical facilities. Read more: 05/19/2008: Reichert Hails War Funding Deal: “Congress Finally Stopped Playing Politics with GI Bill” 05/28/2008: Letter to the Editor: Our veterans deserve benefits, not politics, for service 05/15/2008: Reichert Statement on War Supplemental Votes 05/12/2008: Reichert Hails Third Veterans’ Resource Fair 04/11/2008: Reichert Helps Introduce New GI Bill to Increase Veterans’ Education Benefits For more on his work on Veterans, visit: https://reichert.house.gov/issue/veterans # # #
06.23.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today following the passage of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which allows our nation’s intelligence officials to monitor hostile terrorist communications that endanger American lives. The bill allows immediate foreign surveillance when critical information would be lost due to time constraints, and the bill provides a process for federal court review of surveillance. This legislation also includes provisions to streamline the process to obtain FISA court orders. “I’m pleased that we came to a bipartisan compromise to pass this critical bill. Up to this point there had been too many political games played with this important legislation. This program is far too important to get bogged down because people in Washington, D.C. are trying to score political points. I’m glad that we were finally able to come together and pass legislation that allows us to move forward and keep our country safe. I fully support both keeping our citizens safe and upholding the constitution. This bill does both. We need to remain alert, giving the intelligence community the tools to do their job. Constant threats and recent memories remind us that our national security must be a forefront issue – and that it is better to prevent than to respond.” Reichert has passed critical legislation to protect the homeland, including: Major FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) Overhaul after Hurricane Katrina to better prepare the federal government for disaster response; Passed an amendment last summer to boost intelligence funding when cuts were threatened. Prior to the Reichert Amendment, H.R. 2638, the 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, cut the account $8 million dollars below FY07 levels; and, Sponsored the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act, which ensures first responders have ability to communicate during emergencies. Reichert is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment. For more on his work on Homeland Security, visit: https://reichert.house.gov/issue/defense-and-national-security. # # #
06.19.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the deal announced this morning on the war funding bill to be considered in the House today, which proposes to fund the New G.I. Bill without a politically motivated tax increase, and removes restrictions from the supplemental war funding. “The deal announced on the war funding bill is not only a victory for our men and women in uniform, it is a victory for the veterans who will now get a G.I. Bill they deserve. Congress finally stopped playing politics with the G.I. Bill I cosponsored and included it in this package without a massive tax increase attached to it. I’m pleased to see our veterans receiving what they deserve, and our Armed Forces receiving the support they need to complete their missions. Previous attempts by House leadership to politicize this legislation are exactly what is wrong with Washington, D.C.” More: 05/28/2008: Reichert Letter to the Editor: Our veterans deserve benefits, not politics, for service 05/15/2008: Reichert Statement on War Supplemental Votes 04/10/2008: Reichert Helps Introduce New GI Bill to Increase Veterans’ Education Benefits # # #
06.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) upheld Boeing’s protest of the Air Force’s decision to award the tanker contract to Airbus/EADS: “Today’s GAO decision confirms what Boeing and other supporters have been saying all along, that the Air Force made errors in awarding the contract to Airbus. Over the last one hundred days, Boeing has laid out the case for why the KC-767 should receive the contract to replace the aging KC-135. It has been clear all along that the process was flawed, as evidenced by the clear recommendations made by the GAO. This is a great victory for Boeing, Washington State and every American who values our nation’s economic and homeland security.” More: 05/14/2008: In Wake of Tanker Decision, Reichert, Hare Ask House Leaders to Address National and Economic Security Concerns Tanker Letter to Leadership (May 14, 2008) 04/03/2008: Reichert Expresses Opposition to Tanker Decision 03/18/2008: Reichert Seeks Input on Tanker Decision 02/29/2008: Statement by Murray, Cantwell, Dicks, Larsen, Inslee, Smith, McDermott and Reichert on Tanker Decision # # #
06.17.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released a statement and excerpts from his interview with KOMO Radio yesterday regarding the Privileged Resolution brought to the floor by Congressman Dennis Kucinich (OH-10) last week. There has been some confusion because of the procedural nature of the vote brought to the floor and some incorrect reporting. Reichert voted to send the bill to committee so that Congress could spend time focusing on the important issues facing the country. “I am not for impeaching the President. In the middle of an energy crisis, an economic crisis, the war on terror, rising food prices, flooding in the Midwest and tornadoes to deal with, to bring this type of vote to the floor is shameful. This is precisely what is wrong with Congress and why the American people are so disillusioned with it. “On one hand you had Democrats embarrassed by their own party and a member who wants to avoid these issues and instead impeach a president 6 months from leaving office. On the other hand you had Republicans trying to score political points by forcing a debate on the floor on this issue to expose how dumb it is. I voted to send it back to committee and kill the issue altogether so we could move on. There are a lot of things Congress needs to be acting on and spending one minute on this issue is a waste of the people’s time. “The bill goes back to committee where it will languish forever…It's just the way things are operating back there and I think what's sad is there are a number of great bills that are poised to be brought to the floor: the G.I. Bill hasn't been brought back to the floor yet, we have a bill that would fund intelligence functions here in the homeland (H.R. 6098), we have our Alpine Lakes Wilderness bill (H.R. 4113) which is languishing in the subcommittee. There are a number of great bills that I've cosponsored that languish. People recognize that we've only got six months here let's focus on getting some things done and work on problems and issues that the American people are interested in, right now, today and quit this partisan politics. People want us to work together.” The report initiated from the “How Your U.S. Lawmaker Voted” listing on Sunday. # # #
06.13.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement on an internet search-advertising partnership between Google and Yahoo, reached Thursday night: “The test of any business deal between two companies is whether it will promote or restrict competition. In the case of the deal announced today between Google and Yahoo we see the dominant, number one competitor in the online advertising market teaming up with its number two competitor, consolidating 90% market share in Google’s hands. It doesn’t take an antitrust attorney to see that this doesn’t pass a competition test. It’s bad for everyone who values choice and innovation on the Internet, especially advertisers, publishers and consumers, and I call on my congressional colleagues and the Department of Justice to give it all the critical scrutiny it deserves before rejecting it.” # # #
06.11.2008	Legislation authored by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) moved through the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment Wednesday morning. The PRICE of Homeland Security Act (H.R. 6098) passed unanimously through the Subcommittee and will now move to the full Committee on Homeland Security. Responding to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) recent grant guidance on funding that would change legislation Reichert got passed last year and reduce the number of intelligence analysts in Washington State, the Congressman reintroduced the bill to clarify the responsibility of DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion centers,” including the Washington State Joint Analytical Center, which works to protect the state of Washington, but is in danger of losing funding without Reichert’s bill. “We simply can’t allow these fusion centers to shut down – they are keeping our communities safe through the work that they do,” said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee and former Sheriff of King County, Washington. “I’m pleased that my discussions with Chairwoman Jane Harman (D-CA) were successful, and she also recognized the need to move this bill quickly so our law enforcement is not forced to lay off important intelligence analysts. We rely on our local law enforcement to be the boots on the ground, a job critical to preventing further attacks on our country. With this reliance, we must provide support. As local budgets continue to be squeezed with the increasing pressure to fight gangs and violent crimes, the federal government can’t pull the rug out from underneath them. One of the primary reasons I came to Congress was to ensure that the federal government is a true partner of law enforcement. I will continue to fight for this bill to keep moving forward.” Reichert’s legislation has received support from the Major Cities Chiefs Association, headed by Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department, and the National Sheriff’s Association. Click here for the Major Cities Chiefs Association letter of support. More: 06/02/2008: VIDEO, KIRO TV: Budget Cuts Threaten Anti-Terrorism Center 06/02/2008: Tacoma News Tribune: Federal cuts could hinder anti-terrorism efforts here 05/25/2008: Albany Times-Union: Anti-terror funding cut; Lawmakers question U.S. decision to cap pay for information centers 05/19/2008: Reichert Counters DHS Move on Local Intelligence Funding 03/20/2008: Reichert Letter to Dept. of Homeland Security and Office of Management and Budget # # #
06.05.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today praised the passage of his resolution honoring women for their roles in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields. ”Women have made great strides in the workplace, yet disparities remain in certain fields,” said Reichert. “According to the Department of Education, approximately 20 percent of those entering the engineering field are women. Congress must continue to educate the public about the important role of women in society and recognize the key accomplishments of women in scientific fields. And in our schools and communities, we must encourage more young women to pursue careers in science and technology fields by adequately funding STEM education in our schools. I was proud to offer this resolution to recognize the significant contributions of women to these fields.” Reichert also took the opportunity to praise local organizations promoting women in science. “Much is being done in the Pacific Northwest to achieve these goals,” said Reichert. “Seattle’s Pacific Science Center remains an educational force in our region and continues to inspire students’ interest in science. Boeing and Microsoft are drivers for women in technical fields. Similarly, the Museum of Flight recognizes the success of female aviation pioneers and helps young women discover career possibilities in the world of aerospace.” The resolution passed the House today by voice vote. # # #
06.05.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the passage of his amendment before the House of Representatives today, as part of H.R. 3021, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public Schools Facility Act. This legislation seeks to make grants to local education agencies for the construction, modernization, or repair of public kindergarten, elementary, and secondary educational facilities. Reichert’s amendment added a provision that encourages smaller class sizes for students and teachers. “Our children have been forced to learn in overcrowded classrooms with insufficient resources for too long; passage of my amendment to reduce class sizes in our schools is a victory for students and teachers across the nation. With smaller class sizes our children will finally receive the individualized instruction they need to excel. “As we help usher our schools into the 21st century we should consider how new technologies and building designs can accommodate smaller class sizes. My amendment accomplishes this by permitting local education agencies to use modernization grants for projects that seek to reduce class sizes in our schools.” H.R. 3021 authorizes $6.4B for the next fiscal year (FY 2009) to modernize, repair, renovate, and build environmentally friendly public schools, and an additional $500 million over five years to help reconstruct and renovate public schools damaged by hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. Supporters of the bill include: the National Education Association, Sierra Club, The Wilderness Society, U.S. Green Building Council, National PTA, Earthjustice, American Lands Alliance, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, American Association of School Administrators, Small School Districts’ Association, Building and Construction Trades Department, Mason Contractors Association of America, National Association of Elementary School Principals, National Association of Secondary School Principals, National School Boards Association, and the Rebuild America’s Schools Coalition. To watch Reichert’s entire speech, visit: https://youtube.com/watch?v=gWW2rgBvE_k. # # #
06.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today in response to the President’s announcement that he will likely veto climate change legislation proposed for debate in the Senate this week: “It’s disappointing to hear the premature veto threat by the President before legitimate debate occurs. Climate change is a critical issue for so many Americans – in both parties – and this country deserves a healthy debate to lead to action on this issue. I’m frustrated that the Administration would threaten to veto this bill before it even reaches the Senate floor. “I am a cosponsor of similar cap-and-trade climate change legislation, the Climate Stewardship Act, because it is the most feasible piece of legislation that takes important steps to fight climate change, and does so in a way that doesn’t negatively impact consumers. “America wants action. While I might not agree with every provision the Senate agrees upon in their bill, I do support an immediate, thorough discussion of solutions. We must set a tone in this discussion that we can come together – that both sides of the aisle will have a place in the conversation and a voice in the actions that we take to combat this issue. Americans, and my constituents, benefit when both sides work together to find feasible solutions.” You can read Reichert's recent op-ed on Republicans and the issue of the environment here: https://thehill.com/leading-the-news/republicans-should-embrace-environmentalism-2007-09-27.html.
05.27.2008	Mercer Island, WA – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) will recognize two constituents at his Mercer Island District Office on Wednesday, May 28, 2008, at 3:00 PM for earning the Congressional Award – an award presented to young Americans participating in a voluntary program, measuring their skills and efforts in four areas: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. Rachel Meis of Renton, WA, and Keren Stewart of Redmond, WA, earned their awards through their unparalleled commitment to community, wellness and volunteerism. “Rachel and Keren give hope to so many young people, that if you set your mind to it, you can achieve so much,” said Reichert. “Their achievements say so much about their character, and I’m proud to recognize them and the work they’ve completed. Young people are the cornerstone of this country’s future, and I hope the spirit shown by these two young people inspires others to set goals and work to achieve them.” Rachel, who earned a Silver Medal, completed more than 250 hours of Voluntary Public Service volunteering with Vista Missions, a non-profit organization which provides vision and dental clinics to impoverished nations. Rachel also bettered her own personal records for the Physical Fitness element, in both the 100 and 200 meter races. To accomplish her Exploration activity, she explored a previously unfamiliar culture to her by traveling to Mexico and immersing herself into the Mexican culture. Keren, a Silver and Bronze Medalist, improved her piano skills, dedicated herself to strenuous aerobic activity and traveled to Ecuador where she immersed herself in the tribal culture of the Ashuar people. In addition, she completed over 200 hours of Voluntary Public Service lending her time to “Making Memories,” a non-profit organization that takes donated wedding gowns and helps meet the dreams of those afflicted with terminal breast cancer. In order to achieve a Bronze, Silver or Gold Congressional Award, each participant sets and achieves challenging goals in each of the four areas. The Award is a public/private partnership with the operating budget coming entirely from private donors and in-kind support such as office space donated by Congress. It was established in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. For more information, visit www.congressionalaward.org. # # #
05.21.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to extend a number of critical tax incentives for families and businesses, including the state sales tax deduction, the child tax credit, and the research and development tax credit. He opposed a different version of the bill that extended these incentives for only one year because it levies a new $55.5 billion tax increase on individuals and businesses while giving away special tax benefits to trial lawyers. “Only in Washington, D.C., could a bill to extend tax cuts be crafted in a way that actually raises taxes. As our economy lags and American families struggle with rising food costs and gas prices, the last thing we should do is raise taxes on job-creating businesses and hard-working American families,” said Reichert. ”Tax relief empowers the American people to grow businesses that strengthen our workforce and keep our economy competitive. Most importantly, it allows families to do the simple things, like pay their bills, put food on the table, and keep their gas tanks full. “I have fought to lower taxes and cosponsored most of the provisions in this bill. How does it make any sense to include them in a bill that actually raises taxes? It’s crazy! I have been a champion of the state sales tax deduction because lower taxes help Washington’s families. Yet, in Washington, D.C. you can only cut taxes if you turn around raise them in the same bill. Further, the Senate has already indicated that this political-game legislation stands no chance of passage. I will continue to fight to extend and make permanent these vital tax incentives in a manner that is fiscally responsible and does not harm our economy.” 44 Senators have pledged to oppose this legislation in its current form. Several tax relief provisions expired at the end of 2007 or are set to expire at the end of 2008. Congress extended many of these provisions as a part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006.In addition, Congress passed the Tax Increase Prevention Act which ensured that the AMT did not affect 23 million American families for tax year 2007 on December 27, 2008. Reichert is a cosponsor of legislation to extend or make permanent the majority of these tax incentives, and has fought to enact them since he arrived in Congress. Visit https://reichert.house.gov to learn more about Reichert’s work on the budget, taxes and spending. # # #
05.21.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today to uphold a Presidential Veto on the Farm Bill: “This $307 billion legislation disrespects every American taxpayer,” said Reichert. “How can Americans have faith in their government when it hands out millions of dollars in subsidies to millionaire farmers, while our veterans, smaller farmers, schools, and health care safety net need a boost? I’m disappointed with the actions of Congress today, on both sides of the aisle. I would rather see this money go to pay for the Veterans GI Bill than the massive tax increase Congress proposed.” “This bill is simply business as usual as it makes little meaningful reform to bloated farm programs, and continues allowing wealthy farmers to receive the bulk of farm payments, leaving small farmers and consumers to continue to struggle with increased food and gas prices. At a time when our country needs new thinking, Congress has gone straight back to the old playbook to do things the same as always.” The bill passed the House 316-108, overriding the President’s veto. Last year, Reichert joined Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Paul Ryan (R-WI) in introducing bipartisan legislation in the House that would end the farm subsidy and encourage greener farming practices. Reichert’s FARM-21 legislation provided an opportunity for Congress to re-invest money into conservation, nutrition, and renewable energy programs. It represents the first major rethinking of farm policy in decades. Unfortunately, the final vote on the Farm Bill in the House today failed to adequately address these reforms. Read more about how Dave Reichert’s statements on agriculture policy: 05/14/2008: Reichert: “Farm bill is business as usual” 07/24/2007: Reichert Joins Reform Coalition to Unveil ‘Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment’ 06/13/2007: Reichert Introduces Bold New Farm Legislation # # #
05.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today joined 170 bipartisan House members in helping to introduce a new GI Bill to improve and expand veterans’ education benefits. Among numerous provisions, the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Act (H.R. 5740) increases benefits for all members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, including Guardsmen and Reservists; creates stipends for textbooks and housing; and grants veterans more flexibility in the use of their benefits. H.R. 5740 is companion legislation to S. 22 in the Senate, a bipartisan bill introduced by Sens. Jim Webb and John Warner, both of Virginia. “Our men and women in uniform sacrifice so much to defend our freedom, and one of the many ways we can begin to repay our debt of gratitude is to honor their service by giving them the educational assistance they deserve,” said Reichert. “I remain committed to providing our veterans and their families with the benefits that they have both earned and deserve, including our Guardsmen and Reservists who have played an increasingly important role in the conflicts since September 11.” The original Montgomery GI Bill, designed to help World War II veterans get educational benefits upon their return home from war, has been modified several times over the past sixty years. However, the existing GI Bill does not adequately support those members of the Reserves and National Guard who make up a greater percentage of America’s Armed Forces today than in the past. The new GI Bill that Reichert cosponsored will bring educational benefits for our service members into the 21st century. “After six and a half years of service, our nation’s men and women in uniform deserve a GI Bill that rewards their service and invests in their future,” said Senator Jim Webb. “I see the educational benefits in this bill as crucial to a service member’s readjustment to civilian life and as a cost of war that should receive the same priority that funding the war has received the last five years. In keeping with the spirit of the original World War II GI Bill, this improved bipartisan and bicameral legislation will give this new generation of veterans an educational benefit similar to what the original �?greatest generation’ received.” With a significant bipartisan segment of the House cosponsoring the new GI Bill, momentum is clearly behind efforts to provide increased benefits to the brave men and women sent to Iraq and Afghanistan to fight Global War on Terror. H.R. 5740 will help guarantee that when our troops return home from duty that they have the resources available to build a bright future for themselves and their families. To strengthen support and quality of life for veterans, Reichert has: · Hosted two Veterans’ Resource Fairs, and holding his third on May 10, 2008, in Renton, WA. These fairs assist veterans in gaining access to the benefits available to them, ranging from health care services to financial assistance; · Passed legislation, signed into law in December 2007, which renews and expands a memorial benefit for veterans to ensure that all veterans will receive headstones or grave markers recognizing their service to this country at no cost to their families; and, · Passed legislation to improve the government’s responsiveness to veterans’ job needs. After commissioning a study of problems veterans face in return to the civilian workforce from active duty, authored and passed legislation to improve the government’s responsiveness to veterans’ job needs. # # #
05.19.2008	Responding to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) recent grant guidance that would change legislation he passed and reduce the number of intelligence analysts in Washington State, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is set to reintroduce the PRICE (Personnel Reimbursement for Intelligence Cooperation and Enhancement) of Homeland Security Act. “I am disturbed by the grant guidance DHS has issued regarding the language I had passed for fusion center funding,” Reichert said. “When I first heard of this announcement I sent a letter to DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff and Office of Management and Budget Director Jim Nussle asking for this guidance to be changed immediately. But it has become clear that the Administration has no intention of complying with the intent of the legislation I introduced, so new legislation is needed to remove all doubt regarding the vital funding of intelligence personnel at the local level. Local law enforcement rose to the occasion after 9/11 and helped create intelligence fusion centers to share information between jurisdictions, an important relationship that has been critical to preventing further attacks. The federal government has asked local law enforcement to work in a partnership with them to keep the country safe. But as local budgets continue to be squeezed and increasing pressure is put on local law enforcement to fight the growing gang epidemic, sex offenders or other violent crimes, the federal government needs to uphold its end of the bargain. This is one of the primary reasons I came to Congress: to ensure that the federal government truly is the partner it claims to be to local law enforcement. I will fight for this funding because it is so critical to keeping us safe.” “Continued federal support of the fusion centers is critical to the security of the homeland,” said Washington State Patrol Chief John Batiste. “There’s no way we can sustain our operations without it.” At the beginning of the 110th Congress, Congressman Reichert introduced H.R. 1694, the PRICE of Homeland Security Act. Because of his leadership on this issue, the intent of H.R. 1694 was included in another bill, H.R. 1, which passed Congress and was signed into law in August 2007. Reichert’s language requires DHS to fund current local law enforcement personnel serving in intelligence “fusion” centers through a grant system. Unfortunately, a recent grant “guidance” issued by DHS misinterprets this legislation to severely limit new personnel or overtime costs. This will force the Washington State Patrol to terminate some intelligence analysts currently serving in Washington’s “fusion” center, the Washington Joint Analytical Center (WAJAC), on or before September 30, 2008. The WAJAC is located in Seattle and is Washington’s primary statewide fusion center designed to share information between state, local, and federal officials. Reichert will soon reintroduce the PRICE of Homeland Security Act. This new legislation will make clear to the Administration that they need to adequately fund our nation’s intelligence activities. It will clarify that local law enforcement and contractors serving in the WAJAC can be paid for by DHS grant funding. Link to referenced letter. Visit https://reichert.house.gov to learn more about Reichert’s work on Keeping Communities Safe. # # #
05.16.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today on the late-night vote in the Senate Thursday to invalidate ruling by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to allow media companies to own a newspaper and a television station in the same market: “I’m pleased to see the Senate take action on this legislation and I hope the House follows suit and quickly takes up the companion bill I introduced with Congressman Jay Inslee in March. Congress must send a clear message to the FCC that we will not tolerate a rule that rewards big business at the expense of our democracy. “While I believe in a marketplace that allows companies to operate as freely as possible; I believe it is a role of government to stand between corporations and consumers when the public interest is at stake. I will continue to do what I can to maintain a diverse, free and unbiased source of news for my constituents and citizens across this nation.” Congressman Reichert spoke out in November 2007 during the FCC’s public hearing in Seattle. View his comments by visiting https://youtube.com/watch?v=sJ3WjiNpRCQ. # # #
05.16.2008	Congress voted today on three separate measures directed at troop funding, war policy restrictions and domestic spending priorities. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) once again supported critical funds for our men and women in uniform while opposing a domestic spending amendment that played politics with veterans’ benefits. Reichert commented on the domestic spending measure: “Only in Washington, D.C. can we take war funding votes that are not on a real bill and are not actually intended to become law. In this city we take political statement votes that result in more partisan fighting instead of solutions. It is shameful. “Today’s vote on important national programs was yet another example of Congress playing political games at the expense of our veterans and our health care safety net. I am an original cosponsor of the new GI Bill, just as I have voted time and again to protect our health care providers from devastating funding cuts; but the way to pay for these important measures is by reducing spending, not by raising taxes during an economic downturn. You get the feeling in this city that every time we face a problem the answer is to solve it by having Americans pay more of their hard-earned money rather than someone showing some leadership. "In the past week alone, the House gave away $38 billion in hand-outs to multi-millionaire farmers, and to speculators who contributed to our housing crisis. These funds would be far better spent supporting the men and women who have sacrificed so much for our nation and those who bring needed care to the underserved. Reichert also condemned Congress for playing politics with veterans’ benefits. “This same vote was crafted to intensify partisan attacks and to further divide the House at a time when our nation demands real solutions. A vote on veterans should not be used as a political tool. House leaders have already heard from the Senate that this measure is ‘dead-on-arrival’, but they chose to hold this vote anyway, instead of seeking bipartisan ways to enact a broadly-supported and much-needed education benefit for our veterans. They should be ashamed of themselves. I have a message for all of our veterans back home: I will keep working to get you the benefits you deserve and cut through the politics here in Washington, DC.” Prior to consideration of the three separate measures, Reichert offered an amendment that would begin a draw-down of American taxpayer dollars going into Iraq for reconstruction in a responsible way. His measure would require the Iraqi government to take responsibility and bear the cost for the reconstruction of their country, not the American taxpayer. It limits U.S. funding in Iraq to the form of a loan, while encouraging the Iraqis to spend their billions of dollars in surplus oil revenue on their own economic development and reconstruction efforts. View Reichert speaking on the House Floor on his amendment by clicking here. # # #
05.14.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted against the Farm Bill Conference Report today, the final version of the Farm Bill before the House. Last year, Reichert joined Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Paul Ryan (R-WI) in introducing bipartisan legislation in the House that would end the farm subsidy and encourage greener farming practices. Reichert’s FARM-21 legislation provided an opportunity for Congress to re-invest money into conservation, nutrition, and renewable energy programs. It represents the first major rethinking of farm policy in decades. Unfortunately, the Farm Bill Conference Report presented in the House today failed to adequately address these reforms. “This bill fails to address key reforms we raised in our FARM-21 Act, reforms that will affect American taxpayer and our entire planet,” said Reichert. “We have an opportunity to transition from our current outdated system of big corporate farm subsidies to a modern, entrepreneurial system that will invest in renewable energy, the environment, conservation, and the effort to combat hunger while simultaneously saving taxpayer dollars. I’m disappointed the House failed to take this opportunity and simply continued business as usual. My constituents didn’t elect me to continue business as usual, and I will continue to fight for these important reforms.” Reichert opposed multiple provisions in the legislation. The legislation: Continues to Subsidize Millionaire Farmers. This Farm Bill will continue to allow married couples with household incomes of up to $2.5 million to receive subsidies, much higher than the $750,000 limit being claimed by proponents of the bill. The difference comes about because the non-farm income limit of $500,000 and farm income limit of $750,000 can be combined, and applied to each spouse separately. As a result, millionaire “farmers” throughout the country will continue to be eligible for payments. Continues to Subsidize Corporate Farming Enterprises. Farm subsidy payments are concentrated in the hands of the few, with the top 10 percent of recipients receiving nearly two-thirds of all farm payments. Bad for Conservation Efforts. This bill effectively eliminates federal incentives to preserve native grasslands, cuts the Conservation Reserve and Wetlands Reserve Programs, and changes the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program. Contains Numerous Earmarks. This bill contains numerous wasteful earmarks. These include a $250-million earmark for land in Montana and an earmark that requires the USDA Forest Service to sell land to a ski resort. Costs More Than Advertised. The true cost of the Farm Bill is much higher than the advertised by the conferees. PAYGO (Pay As You Go) gimmickry and special interest tax breaks and earmarks not contemplated within the advertized $10-billion framework push the overall cost to $23 billion over the baseline. Read more about how Dave Reichert approaches farming policy: Reichert Introduces Bold New Farm Legislation Reichert Joins Reform Coalition to Unveil ‘Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment’ # # #
05.14.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Congressman Phil Hare (D-IL), along with 37 of their Republican and Democratic colleagues, today sent a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Republican Leader John Boehner (Ohio) expressing their concern about the national and economic security implications of the Air Force’s decision to award a $35 billion dollar aerial tanker contract to Northrup Grumman and the European Aeronautic Defense and Space (EADS) Company. “The GAO is currently engaged in examining the many legal and process questions associated with the Air Force’s tanker competition and decision,” the letter reads. “But the necessary GAO review will not address the broader national and economic security concerns raised by the tanker decision. Congress must address these serious issues before the tanker program can move forward—we owe it to the warfighter, to American workers, and to American taxpayers to ensure not just that the technical acquisition process worked as it was supposed to, but that the nation buys the best tanker.” “We want Congressional leadership to understand that the Boeing tanker decision is not inconsequential to our national security or the responsibilities of Congress,” said Reichert. “The recent decision jeopardizes our national security, and hurts our American defense industry workforce. We live in a time when we’re all aware of the threats to our nation and the importance of keeping our citizens safe. It is critical that wherever possible the companies making our sensitive military equipment should be American. We need to take a step back, look inside our own processes and policies and determine if there’s a fix to be made. GAO is doing their job and we should do ours.” “The GAO study is looking at flaws in the process,” Hare said. “Congress needs to examine the underlying problem. This tanker contract represents an unprecedented break from the Buy America policies at a time when our manufacturing industry is already taking it on the chin. With 260,000 jobs lost in the first half of this year alone, we cannot afford to outsource our defense industrial base. I hope my colleagues will keep that in mind as the House begins debate on the Fiscal Year 2009 defense policy bill.”Tanker Letter to Leadership (May 14, 2008)
05.12.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) hosted his third successful Veterans’ Resource Fair on Saturday in Renton, with over 300 veterans attending and almost 60 veterans’ service providers participating. “I love the fact that Congressman Reichert took the time to talk to me and all of the veterans who showed up,” said Joe Ingram, Executive Director of Vets Edge, a service organization for homeless and transitional veterans looking to restore themselves back into society. “You can tell he really cares about veterans. I brought a vet with me from Tent City and because of the Vets’ Fair he has gotten the process started to receive a pension. Thank you, Congressman Reichert.” “Bringing Washington State veterans together with the organizations that can help them get the services and benefits they deserve makes these resource fairs worthwhile,” said Reichert. “I’m pleased that nearly one thousand veterans have attended these three fairs across the Eighth District, and I am proud to continue working to make a difference in the lives of these courageous men and women who have sacrificed so much to defend our freedom.” Reichert continued, “I am equally pleased to announce that my office is one of only a dozen in Congress that will help establish a program creating congressional job opportunities for wounded warriors. Having a veteran working in my congressional office will give a voice to so many veterans in shaping the policies that need their input. Our veterans are some of the hardest-working, most honorable citizens in this country, and I am excited to be a part of this ground-breaking program and provide opportunities to veterans who deserve it.” Background on Reichert Veterans’ Resource Fairs The Veterans’ Fair is conducted to enroll more Washington State veterans in the VA healthcare system and to acquaint them with other benefits and services available to them. After several months of planning and the combined efforts of many, more than 350 veterans came together with more than 100 service providers representing 47 organizations in Bellevue on March 31, 2007, with a similar turnout for the second Veterans’ Resource Fair in Auburn in September 2007. Because of those resounding successes, Reichert again brought organizations together to benefit veterans living in and around the Renton area. New to this third Veterans’ Resource Fair was the announcement regarding the Congressional Wounded Warrior Program. As recognition of his leadership on veterans’ issues, Reichert was one of only a dozen bipartisan Members chosen to help implement this exciting fellowship program that will provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans in the offices of Members of the House of Representatives. # # #
05.08.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in favor of a housing package intended to bring relief to our nation’s struggling housing market. The package included several measures, including a long-sought overhaul of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a modernization of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), an expansion of the FHA’s loan guarantee program and a housing-focused tax measure that will give an important tax credit to first-time home buyers. “In this period of market turmoil, we must provide immediate assistance to homeowners who have fallen on difficult times through no fault of their own, but we must also take up long-term solutions to stabilize our economy,” said Reichert. “Appropriate assistance and mortgage products must be available for worthy homebuyers, and we must continue to crack down on predatory lenders and offer tax incentives to homebuyers without giving a free pass to the bad actors who contributed to this market downturn. “But it would be near-sighted not to simultaneously tackle the long-term solutions that grow our economy and create jobs. We must make permanent critical tax relief for families, individuals, and businesses. This includes the deduction for state sales tax that affects every single Washington taxpayer, the 15% capital gains rate, and the child tax credit. We must also continue to enact free trade agreements to open new markets for American businesses and create more jobs for American workers.” Washington State currently ranks 48th out of the 50 states in terms of our foreclosure rate. Congressman Reichert will continue to focus on bringing stability to the markets so that home prices in Washington State aren’t affected by plummeting home values and foreclosures in other parts of the country. # # #
05.08.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the completion of legislation to create the Wild Sky Wilderness in Washington State:“It’s awesome to see this bill finally reach the finish line! My sincere congratulations first to the people of Washington, who will be able to enjoy this wilderness and the benefits of protected wilderness for generations to come. I also extend my congratulations to Representative Rick Larsen and Senator Patty Murray, who have worked long and hard to overcome many hurdles to make the dream of Wild Sky a reality for the people of Washington. “With the passage of Wild Sky, Washingtonians have reason to hope for the addition of more wilderness areas. My hope, with the accomplishment of Wild Sky, is that we can keep this momentum going and move forward with the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions bill. Like so many who have gone before us, such as Dan Evans, Slade Gorton, Scoop Jackson, Lloyd Meeds and Jennifer Dunn, we must work across party lines to achieve shared goals. And these shared goals are to protect the lands and natural resources that we treasure." The legislation – now law – designates 106,577 acres of national forest as wilderness to permanently protect prime terrain in Washington's north Cascades. Reichert has introduced the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Wild Pratt River Act of 2007, to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness in the State of Washington, to protect the complete watershed of the free-flowing Pratt River as a Wild and Scenic River.
05.06.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is hosting his third Veterans’ Resource Fair this Saturday, May 10, 2008, from 9 a.m. – noon in Renton. The event is open to all veterans, their families and other interested residents. New to this third Veterans’ Resource Fair is the opportunity for veterans to learn more about the Congressional Wounded Warrior Program. As recognition of his leadership on veterans’ issues, Reichert was one of only a dozen bipartisan Members chosen to help implement this exciting fellowship program that will provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans in the offices of Members of the House of Representatives. “To date, over 600 veterans have attended these fairs, and we’d like to see that number grow even more,” said Congressman Reichert. “One of the main benefits is simply getting all of these individuals together under the same roof with the service providers who can help them. Seeing veterans and their families getting comprehensive help – from financial assistance to job assistance to health care – makes it all worthwhile. “I’m also excited to be a part of the pilot program to create job opportunities for wounded veterans, and to have the ability to bring someone into my office. Our veterans are some of the hardest-working, most honorable citizens in this country, and it’s wonderful news to be a part of this ground-breaking program and provide opportunities to veterans who deserve it. It is so important for our veterans to get involved in Congressional offices so their voices can be heard and our policies can be shaped by their experience.” WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and all interested veterans and their families. Representatives have been invited from organizations who have previously participated: Department of Education Higher Education Coordinating Board Harborstone Credit Union Small Business Administration Department of Labor SCORE - (SBA) King County Veteran's Program U.S. Army - Puget Sound Association United Services Organization Madigan Army Medical Center Tri-West Healthcare Alliance Hire a Hero King County Housing Authority U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development The Northwest Veteran Tahoma National Cemetery Social Security Administration Marine for Life Vietnam Veterans of America U.S. Department Of Agriculture - Rural Development Veterans Affairs - Fisher House U.S. Air Force Enlisted Accessions Recruiter Veterans Affairs - Benefits Madigan Tri-Care Veterans Affairs – Vocational Rehab/Employment Green River College Veteran retraining program National Association of Black Veterans Patriots Pride Operation Homefront Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs Washington National G
04.29.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today upon the passage of the Wild Sky Wilderness legislation in the House: “I’m pleased to see the Wild Sky legislation pass so quickly out of the House again, following the Senate’s unnecessary delay of this important bill. Passage today makes this bill ready for the President’s signature, and I will encourage him to quickly sign it into law. After the long fight for this bill, Washingtonians have reason to hope for the addition of more wilderness areas. I hope the excitement surrounding this occasion spurs momentum to move forward with the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Expansion bill." # # #
04.24.2008	It was recently brought to the attention of the Office of Congressman Dave Reichert that his support of legislation was misstated in two recent press releases, dated April 16, 2008 and April 22, 2008. The Congressman is a cosponsor of the Climate Stewardship Act, and the releases incorrectly referred to the Safe Climate Act. This was an inadvertent mix-up by his staff (possibly stemming from the considerable amount of time that the office has spent studying two similar, but distinct, and comprehensive pieces of cap-and-trade legislation that address global warming and reduce CO2 emissions). There was no intention to misstate his position or give the impression he was supporting a different bill. To clarify, Congressman Reichert has actively considered two pieces of cap-and-trade legislation to address global warming and reduce CO2 emissions: the Climate Stewardship Act (HR 620) and the Safe Climate Act (HR 1590). He is one of only 14 Republicans on the most viable cap-and-trade bill in the U.S. House of Representatives supporting climate change legislation. While he agrees with the underlying principles in the Safe Climate Act, he has cosponsored the Climate Stewardship Act because it is the most feasible piece of legislation that takes important steps to fight climate change, and does so in a way that doesn’t negatively impact consumers. It leaves important decisions to elected officials in Congress that can be held accountable, rather than officials within the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). By contrast, the Safe Climate Act, while an important bill, does not indicate how the new cap and trade system will work; but rather mandates that the EPA develop a system to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050. Because a cap-and-trade system would create a new regulatory market, Reichert believes Congress should have a more significant role in shaping how the EPA will implement the new system (the bill he supports calls for over 70% reduction by 2050). Regardless of what bill comes through Congress, Congressman Reichert looks forward to shaping the debate in a way that immediately addresses this problem while maintaining economic growth for the nation. # # #
04.23.2008	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement recognizing Earth Day: “Today, on Earth Day, the nation takes a moment to reflect on the beauty of our natural resources – the environment that surrounds us with clean air, the forests, wetlands and the beauty of places such as Mount Rainier. We’re at a critical time, and we must act now to preserve these precious resources. Americans recognize the importance of this issue and the effects it will have on the futures of our children and grandchildren. “In this same spirit, I will continue to work on crucial legislation to protect our natural treasures, including measures such as my bill to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and the Climate Stewardship Act, to reduce global warming. Just today the U.S. Department of Transportation announced implementation of standards that I helped pass through Congress last year, to increase fuel economy in our vehicles. Last week, the Senate passed Wild Sky legislation, a victory for Washington state in creating an additional wilderness area. These are important steps forward on the path to cleaner air and a healthier environment. “While we take a day to enjoy the outdoors, we must not forget the challenges ahead to preserve our environment for generations to come. I will also continue to work to change my party so that we have a healthy ongoing conversation in public policy where we are not debating whether we should act, but what is the best way to work together to solve problems.” # # #**This release has been corrected since the original release date to accurately reflect the Congressman’s co-sponsorship of the Climate Stewardship Act.
04.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) reacted today to the President’s speech on climate change: “All Americans recognize the importance of protecting our environment for the sake of our children and grandchildren. We must act now to preserve our environment, protect our forests, wetlands, and natural habitat. President Bush has taken a tremendous step forward in making sure our world stays healthy and green, but there is so much more to be done. This plan that includes other developing nations like China and India is an important step. The future depends on all of us, Democrats and Republicans and Independents, working together. The President’s initiatives send a strong message to all Americans, especially Republicans. It is time to take action; the debate is over. “As I’ve said before, too many in my party have forgotten that conservation is conservative. I’ve been working with colleagues in both parties to promote bipartisan legislation such as the Climate Stewardship Act, which would reduce carbon emissions and greenhouse gases through market-driven incentives, with a long-term target of reducing global warming pollution by 75% by mid-century. I’ve also introduced legislation to expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and continue a Washington state tradition of working collaboratively to preserve precious wild lands and rivers for our children and grandchildren. “Americans are innovators – and we should continue to provide that leadership to the world in developing alternative technologies to meet the energy demands of the future. We must continue to provide for incentives – through the elected representatives – to appropriately deal with the challenges wea face. “This issue requires a thoughtful, strategic approach, that doesn’t harm our businesses or our economy but brings people together so we can develop good environmental policy that is also sound economic policy. This is a needed step to begin a collaborative, bi-partisan approach to reducing our nation’s greenhouse gas emissions while protecting our nation’s economic interests. I am happy to have the President at the table for this important discussion, and I look forward to building upon his preliminary objectives with my colleagues in Congress. “It is not healthy for our country to only have one set of solutions to our environmental problems. Republicans need to encourage the president to do the right things on the environment.�? Congressman Reichert’s further conservation and environmental efforts include: · Cosponsor of the Wild Sky Wilderness Act; · Voted against drilling in ANWR, and supporter of the Udall-Eisenhower Arctic Wilderness Act to protect the ANWR Reserve; · Introduced CAFE standards legislation; · Cosponsored legislation to develop plug-in hybrid technology; and, · Consistently supports funding boosts for national parks, including funding for Mount Rainer. Congressman Reichert’s recent opinion piece on the environment can be found here: https://thehill.com/leading-the-news/republicans-should-embrace-environmentalism-2007-09-27.html. # # #**This release has been corrected since the original release date to accurately reflect the Congressman’s co-sponsorship of the Climate Stewardship Act.
04.18.2008	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Christopher Shays (CT-04) introduced a resolution yesterday expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that going forward, Iraq reconstruction should be paid for by the Iraqi Government. Iraq’s oil sales brought in $41 billion in 2007, and over $10 billion in 2008 through March 5, 2008. Approximately $12 billion is in an account into which Iraqis put revenues, and out of which they draw for expenditures. Another account contains $27 billion in currency reserves. “It is unacceptable that Iraqis are accumulating billions of dollars in accounts from oil revenues and the United States spends billions of dollars on Iraq’s defense and economic development,” stated Shays. “As I wrote in my latest letter outlining my observations and recommendations from my 20th trip to Iraq, the Iraq government needs to begin paying for the security, health and welfare of their country.” “The Iraqi government must bear the cost for the reconstruction of their country, not the American taxpayer,” said Reichert. “Iraq holds the third-largest oil reserve in the world, and Iraq must lead their nation to stability, peace and prosperity by paying for the reconstruction of their infrastructure.” Please click here for a copy of the Resolution. # # #
04.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) testified today before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security in favor of H.R. 5057, The Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act. Congressman Reichert detailed his experiences with DNA technologies and its critical importance in the criminal justice system. “Thank you Chairman Conyers, Ranking Member Smith, Chairman Scott and Ranking Member Gohmert for the opportunity to be here this morning. I am pleased to share with you my experience with forensic DNA technology and the critical role that technology played in bringing a serial killer to justice and providing answers to the questions the victims’ families had been asking for many years. “Before coming to Congress, I spent over 30 years in law enforcement in the King County Sheriff’s Office, in Seattle, Washington. I have personally witnessed how forensic DNA has closed unsolved rapes and homicides in Washington State. For 20 years I was involved in the case of the Green River Killer, in which at least 48 women were found murdered throughout King County, Washington; the first five were found along the Green River and so it was called the Green River Task Force. DNA evidence played a central role in this investigation and ultimately led to the conviction of Gary Ridgway. “Ridgway became a suspect early in the investigation but after passing a polygraph test and with no physical evidence to link him to the crimes, he walked free. Police collected bodily fluids from the first victims found in 1982, and first took hair and saliva samples from Ridgway in 1987. At the time, the technology did not exist to compare these samples with the evidence collected at the crime scenes. These samples were later subjected to DNA analysis. When the tests came back on September 10, 2001, the DNA from 3 of the 48 victims was attributed to one suspect, Gary Ridgway. It is incredible that nearly two decades later, thanks to advancements in DNA technology, a small saliva sample compared with the first crime scene evidence from 1982 would prove the key to unlocking one of the most notorious serial murder cases in our history. Gary Ridgway pled guilty to 48 separate counts of murder and later admitted to having sex with and killing over 70 women. He is now serving life in prison. “I cannot speak enough about the importance of DNA analysis to law enforcement and to the victims and their families. DNA analysis is a powerful tool that can potentially help solve hundreds of cases where no known suspect currently exists. Unfortunately, there is a severe backlog for DNA testing. It is a real tragedy that we have the technology needed to bring offenders to justice and peace to their victims, yet we’re unable to fully utilize it. “For victims of rape and sexual assault, DNA promises the opportunity to finally reclaim their lives – their sense of security, confidence, and independence that only comes after knowing their offender is caught and behind bars. Today, an alarming 1 in 6 women and 1 in 33 men have experienced an attempted or completed rape, and 1 out of 4 college-aged women have been sexually assaulted. In 2006, there were over 270,000 victims of rape, attempted rape, or sexual assault in the United States. Sex crimes are one of the most personal, offensive, and destructive crimes. Often victims are never able to fully recover from the psychological and emotional distress associated with the offense. DNA has the unequaled ability to identify rapists, bring them to justice, and grant peace of mind to victims. We owe it to our daughters, sisters, and neighbors to do everything in our power to eliminate the DNA backlog so rapists are taken off the streets and prevented from claiming more innocent victims. “The bottom line is the FBI and state and local law enforcement must eliminate the backlog and get the DNA samples into the system. It is the only way the DNA does all that it’s capable of. “I commend the Judiciary Committee for taking up this charge to eliminate the DNA backlog through the reauthorization of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program. This program goes a long way towards helping states and local government eliminate the current backlog of unprocessed DNA samples so that dangerous perpetrators like Gary Ridgway can be caught and communities across our nation will be safer.” # # #
04.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement today upon the passage of the Wild Sky Wilderness legislation in the Senate: “Almost a year after passing the House of Representatives, and almost 6 years after it was introduced, I am pleased to see the Senate finally break the log-jam and pass legislation creating the Wild Sky Wilderness. As a cosponsor of this legislation, I know how important it is for us to preserve this country’s natural resources for our children and grandchildren to enjoy. Today’s passage of the Wild Sky Wilderness Act shows what can happen when the Washington State delegation works together for the benefit of the environment. With the passage of this monumental legislation, I am hopeful that my colleagues in the Washington state delegation will join me in continuing this momentum and help pass the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Wild Pratt River Act of 2007. So far, we have not been able to obtain any co-sponsors of this bill or to receive a hearing. But I remain optimistic that the success of Wild Sky has paved the way for the success of this important bill. I have already contacted the President of the United States and urged him to sign Wild Sky into law.” # # #
04.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) expressed his profound disappointment today at a House vote that will deny debate on the Colombian Free Trade Agreement: “Yesterday, I was shocked, but today, I’m outraged and saddened. As a representative from the most trade-dependent state in the nation, I urged my colleagues in the Washington state delegation to reject this unprecedented rules change and allow the Colombia Free Trade Agreement to come to the floor for a vote. Today, this did not happen. I’m disappointed at the lack of support from our entire delegation. We should be united across party lines to support our state's economy and workers. “Delaying this free trade agreement today also signals to our allies that America is closed for trade, and encourages our rivals to exploit new markets. It also derails the consideration of other pending trade agreements like one with Korea, Washington State’s fourth largest trading partner. This is unequivocally the wrong message to send in this time of economic uncertainty. “This trade agreement is a good deal for American workers. It is supported by such large local employers as Boeing and Microsoft. How can we unite to decry the Airbus tanker deal, and yet not work together to advance trade measures that support our state’s economy and workers? Not only can we help workers in the United States, but also poor, struggling people in Colombia. Through this agreement, we had the opportunity to give them hope. The political games the House played today to cater to special interests are shameful.” Congressman Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group, which unites Members of Congress to work toward the passage of trade legislation that supports business, jobs, and economic growth. April 10, 2008 Reichert in the Seattle Times: Colombia free-trade pact should be approved April 9, 2008 Reichert Calls on Colleagues: Washington State Delegation Must Unite to Demand Pelosi Hold Colombia Free Trade Vote April 7, 2008: Reichert Travels to Colombia, Stresses Importance of Free Trade Pact March 6, 2008: Reichert: “Trade agreements cannot languish” November 8, 2007: Peru Free Trade Agreement Advances in the House, Reichert Urges Congress to Pass Other Trade Agreements October 1, 2007: Reichert Applauds Passage of Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension # # #
04.18.2008	Following the testimony by General David Petraeus and U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker on the status of Iraq, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) made the following statement: “I was pleased to hear the testimony of General Petraeus as he described the success of the surge. While he was optimistic, he also stressed that this progress was reversible and that a failed state in Iraq would pose serious consequences for the greater fight against Al Qaeda, for regional stability, and for the already existing humanitarian crises in Iraq. I support his plan to withdraw troops down to pre-surge levels, and to re-evaluate the situation when he returns to report to Congress. “In order for the Iraqi government to continue to progress towards stability, now is the time to communicate to the Iraqis that we will provide security, but that its own government must bear a greater load of the responsibility for reconstruction. A secure and stable Iraq needs to have robust investment from its own country and take ownership over reconstruction efforts such as rebuilding sewers, water systems, schools and roads. “I first began investigating this idea when I visited Iraq last September and talked to military personnel on the ground who suggested that it was time we helped the Iraqis learn to rebuild their own country, and time they shouldered the financial burden. As I have watched the progress of Gen. Petraeus’ plan, and after hearing his testimony, I am convinced the time is right for the Iraqi government to take responsibility for their own reconstruction with their oil revenues. “Iraq currently holds the third-largest oil reserve in the world. At a time when the price of a barrel of oil is skyrocketing, we need to take this opportunity to help the Iraqis begin to function independently, which is what they want too, and to do so while we can still provide the necessary security to allow the reconstruction process to occur. “The House of Representatives will soon be considering a supplemental spending bill to allow for continued operations in Iraq. This legislation must include language stipulating that Iraq should use a greater percentage of its oil surpluses to pay for reconstruction efforts, not the American taxpayer. I will follow this bill closely as it moves through committee, and if such language is not included that the Iraqis pay for reconstruction with oil surpluses, I will offer my own amendment on the House floor. “Let me be absolutely clear: I am not suggesting we set a timeline for a draw-down or removal of our troops. Calls for this action are improperly based on domestic politics on the ground in the United States, not on military reality on the ground in Iraq. We must continue to fund the men and women who are risking their lives everyday and ensure that they have the best training and equipment available to carry out their duties. I believe the military decisions in Iraq are best left to the generals on the ground. Any decision to draw-down troops must be entrusted to them and I will await General Petraeus’ report in July after the withdrawal of troops to a pre-surge level. “But the ability of our troops to return home responsibly and honorably is directly dependent on how quickly the Iraqi government can achieve stability on its own. This begins with them taking accountability over their own finances and their own reconstruction. Ultimately, that is the best course of action not only for our own troops and the American taxpayer, but for the Iraqi people who want to take control of their own future as well.” # # #
04.18.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today circulated an emergency letter (attached) to colleagues in his state calling on them to join as one voice and urge Democratic leadership to reconsider plans to stop a vote on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA). House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced today that she would hold a vote Thursday to change existing rules in order to delay consideration of the agreement. “Speaker Pelosi’s decision to actually change the rules of the House in order to derail consideration of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement is shocking,” said Reichert. “At a time of economic uncertainty, I am disappointed that the Speaker would let special interests trump debating a measure that is critical to Washington State and that grows our economy, creates jobs, and furthers positive relations with a strategic ally. “Many times when Republicans were in the majority, my colleagues would call on me to go to my leadership to help the state, for instance when we learned of language that would allow supertankers onto Puget Sound. Today, I urge all of my colleagues in the Washington delegation – including Governor Gregoire – to join together and reject the Speaker’s effort to shelve this vital measure. Surely our collective voices will have an impact. Ours is the most trade-dependent state in the country. This is not a partisan issue – we should be able to join together and ask Speaker Pelosi to reconsider for the sake of our state’s economy and workers. “The Colombia FTA will increase Washington exports, create new jobs, and enable us to continue pushing for other pending trade agreements under consideration, such as the Korea FTA, which is Washington State’s fourth-largest trading partner. We are all aware of the state of our nation’s economy. This is not the time to signal to the world that America is closed for trade and embolden China and Europe to exploit global markets.” According to recent news reports, Pelosi will force a vote tomorrow on legislation that would delay required action on a free trade agreement with Colombia. The measure that will be voted on will first have to pass the House Rules Committee, which could meet this afternoon. Congressman Reichert traveled to Colombia over the weekend with a bipartisan congressional delegation, and held meetings with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, the country's Attorney General, former guerilla combatants that have been demobilized, members of the business community, displaced workers, and leaders of labor unions who support the agreement, as well as labor leaders who oppose it. He left the country even more convinced that this trade agreement would benefit the state of Washington and the country. Video coverage of his trip can be viewed here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-CHSBK-HxCk. Congressman Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group, which unites Members of Congress to work toward the passage of trade legislation that supports business, jobs, and economic growth. April 7, 2008: Reichert Travels to Colombia, Stresses Importance of Free Trade Pact March 6, 2008: Reichert: “Trade agreements cannot languish” November 8, 2007: Peru Free Trade Agreement Advances in the House, Reichert Urges Congress to Pass Other Trade Agreements October 1, 2007: Reichert Applauds Passage of Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension # # #
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the passage of a bill he championed to expand and improve emergency care for children who need treatment for life-threatening illnesses or injuries. H.R. 2464, the Wakefield Act, reauthorizes the Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) grant program that helps states and medical institutions buy pediatric equipment for hospitals, test best practices, and improve standards of emergency care for children. As the founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, Reichert successfully passed an amendment increasing funding for the EMSC program by $2.5 million in last year’s Health and Human Services spending bill. His caucus also sponsored briefings on the program and helped secure the bipartisan support of more than 70 Members for the reauthorization. “We must remember that the illnesses and injuries that bring children into the emergency room vary significantly from those that affect adults, and our hospitals and first responders must be well-equipped to provide proper treatment,” said Reichert. “The Emergency Medical Services for Children program provides vital support to help them do so. I have been a tireless advocate for this essential program because I understand its importance to emergency preparedness and quality trauma care for our children.” Reichert continued, “I was proud to work with Representatives Jim Matheson (D-UT), Peter King (R-NY), and Kathy Castor (D-FL) to advocate for the passage of this important measure. I hope that the Senate will follow our lead, pass this bill, and swiftly send it to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” H.R. 2464 passed the House by a broad bipartisan vote of 390-1. Although children account for 30 million annual visits to the emergency room – more than a quarter of all visits – many hospitals and trauma centers are not adequately prepared to handle these patients. A recent Center for Disease Control study found that only 6% of all U.S. emergency departments have all of the supplies necessary for handling pediatric emergencies.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) returned late Sunday evening from Colombia even more convinced that we need to pass a Free Trade Agreement with the South American country. Reichert was part of a bipartisan congressional delegation led by U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Susan Schwab that visited the country to gather facts about the pending trade agreement between the United States and Colombia. Reichert and members of the delegation held meetings with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, the country's Attorney General, former guerilla combatants that have been demobilized, members of the business community, displaced workers, and leaders of labor unions who support the agreement, as well as labor leaders who oppose it. “In this time of economic uncertainty, it is more important than ever to enact measures that grow our economy and create jobs for American workers,” said Reichert. “This trip gave me a firsthand look at what’s at stake in the Colombia Free Trade Agreement, and I am convinced that it deserves broad support and swift passage in Congress. Colombia is a success story. They have made tremendous strides in the security of their nation and are on the cusp of solving problems that previously seemed insurmountable. Furthermore, trade is absolutely essential to Washington State’s economy; we cannot afford to reject this carefully negotiated agreement and signal to the global community that America is no longer open to trade. This would tell the world that we are closed for business and put future trade agreements at risk. Reichert continued, “Not only will this agreement bring fairness to American businesses and farms in our existing trade relationship with Colombia, but it will also support a critical ally in the region. Free trade agreements are a core component of our country’s diplomacy and security. The Colombia FTA will bolster a nation that has stood tall as a beacon of democracy in the face of Hugo Chavez’s anti-American policies and that has worked alongside us to aggressively combat the illegal drug trade. The fact is they are beginning to succeed in implementing the “Plan Colombia” policy that President Clinton negotiated. This is the time to reach out and help Colombia turn the corner, not reject them and leave them behind. “There have been legitimate questions raised about this particular trade deal, and I was pleased the U.S. Trade Representative asked me to go along with her because I wanted to investigate and see for myself whether there was truth in the claims put forward by supporters and opponents of the FTA. Not only was I able to meet with citizens in the country who have a stake in this agreement, I was able to hear the questions of my colleagues who traveled with me and raised some of these concerns. While Colombia still has a way to go to finish protecting its citizens, I was very pleased at the answers we got on the progress they have made. Not only for their people, who have a fundamental right to peace, but for our people. If we want fewer drugs on our streets, we need to help Colombia. If we want less destruction of the rain forest, we need to help Colombia. If we want more stability in the region, we need to help Colombia.” Congressman Reichert is a strong supporter of free and fair trade. During his time in Congress, he has: § Advocated for the passage of free trade agreements with Panama, Colombia, and Korea, which have the potential to bring billions of dollars and thousands of new jobs into Washington State’s economy; § Supported free trade agreements with Central America, Oman, Bahrain, and Peru; § Supported additional funding for Trade Adjustment Assistance, which helps workers whose jobs were displaced by trade; § Met with Treasury Secretary Paulson and Korean Ambassador Lee Tae-Sik to promote trade agreements that benefit Washington State; and; § He is a member of the House Trade Working Group to build support for pro-growth, pro-jobs trade initiatives. Congressman Reichert was joined by House members Kevin Brady (R-TX), John Carter (R-TX), Phil English (R-PA), Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Jean Schmidt (R-OH). About the Colombia Free Trade Agreement The U.S. - Colombia FTA was signed on November 22, 2006 in Washington, D.C. On June 28, 2007, the United States and Colombia signed a Protocol of Amendment revising the Agreement to reflect the bipartisan consensus on trade of May 10, 2007. America’s two-way trade with Colombia reached $18 billion in 2007 – an increase of two billion from 2006 - making Colombia our fourth largest trading partner in Latin America and our largest export market for U.S. agriculture products in South America. In 2007, total U.S. goods exports to Colombia reached $8.6 billion. The U.S. - Colombia FTA will further open Colombia’s dynamic and growing economy to American goods and services. It will provide particular benefits to U.S. farmers and ranchers by immediately eliminating Colombia’s duties on high quality beef, cotton, wheat, soybeans, key fruits and vegetables, and many processed foods upon entry into force of the agreement. The U.S. market is already open to imports from Colombia. Currently, the vast majority of U.S. imports from Colombia – 91 percent - entered the United States duty-free under our most-favored nation tariff rates and various preference programs, such as the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) and the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). The U.S. – Colombia Free Trade Agreement will give American businesses, farmers, ranchers, and workers similar access to this important market. **In photos attached, pictured is Congressman Dave Reichert with President Uribe. Additional photos available upon request. ReichertColombia2 ReichertColombia3
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today gave the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “I rise today to express my strong opposition to the decision made by the Air Force to choose a foreign company for their new refueling tanker. “The recent Air Force decision to give the KC-X tanker contract to Airbus jeopardizes our national security…” The video is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EYGfXbBtsEM
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today recognized the first-ever World Autism Awareness Day, releasing the following statement, which was submitted into the Congressional Record: “Madam Speaker, In December 2007, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution declaring April 2 as the annual World Autism Awareness Day (WAAD). Autism is only the third disorder to be recognized in this manner by the UN, showing the pervasive nature of autism and its ever-increasing effect on millions of people worldwide. As the Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, I recognize the destructive force that is autism and I am proud to recognize Worldwide Autism Awareness Day in order to raise awareness of this life-altering and little known disorder. “Last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that autism now afflicts one in every 150 American children and nearly one in 94 boys. These numbers are extremely disconcerting, especially when coupled with the fact that we know little about the root causes of autism. “By raising public awareness of autism, hopefully more money will be allocated to research and develop cures and treatments. I am leading an effort to increase the funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Increasing NIH funding offers the best hope we have to finding cures and treatments for diseases and disorders like autism. Collectively, we must commit every available resource to biomedical research in order to enhance the quality of life for many, and it is my hope that raising awareness of this disorder will lead to new resources to combat it. “More children will be diagnosed with autism this year than with diabetes, cancer, and AIDS combined and autism is the fastest-growing serious developmental disability in the world. While currently there is no medical detection or cure for autism, early diagnosis and intervention shows much promise. With increased support for autism awareness, together we will offer hope in an area that desperately needs it. And finally Madam Speaker, I would encourage my colleagues to join us in this fight, to fund NIH medical research and bring hope to children and their families.” About Autism According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Autism is one of a group of disorders known as autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). ASDs are developmental disabilities that cause substantial impairments in social interaction and communication and the presence of unusual behaviors and interests. Many people with ASDs also have unusual ways of learning, paying attention, and reacting to different sensations. The thinking and learning abilities of people with ASDs can vary—from gifted to severely challenged. An ASD begins before the age of 3 and lasts throughout a person's life. To read more, visit: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/overview.htm. CNN: Autism: Unraveling the Mystery CNN reports on the impact and latest science concerning the developmental syndrome of autism in a global investigation. All day Wednesday, April 2, 2008. To read more, visit: https://www.cnn.com/SPECIALS/2008/news/autism/.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he is hosting his third Veterans’ Resource Fair on Saturday, May 10, 2008, from 9 a.m. – noon in Renton. The event is open to all veterans, their families and other interested residents. “To date, over 600 veterans have attended these fairs, and we’d like to see that number grow even more,” said Congressman Reichert. “One of the main benefits is simply getting all of these individuals together under the same roof with the service providers who can help them. Seeing veterans and their families getting comprehensive help – from financial assistance to job assistance to health care – makes it all worthwhile. Veterans are and will always remain a priority of mine – because of them, we remain free.” The Veterans’ Fair is conducted to enroll more Washington State veterans in the VA healthcare system and to acquaint them with other benefits and services available to them. As Congressman Reichert’s first Veterans’ Resource Fair was organized, the format expanded to include an even broader array of veterans’ service and benefit providers. After several months of planning and the combined efforts of many, more than 350 veterans came together with more than 100 service providers representing 47 organizations in Bellevue on March 31, 2007, with a similar turnout for the second Veterans’ Resource Fair in Auburn in September 2007. Because of those resounding successes, Reichert is again bringing organizations together to benefit veterans living in and around the Renton area. WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and all interested veterans and their families. Representatives have been invited from organizations who have previously participated: Department of Education Higher Education Coordinating Board Harborstone Credit Union Small Business Administration Department of Labor SCORE - (SBA) King County Veteran's Program U.S. Army - Puget Sound Association United Services Organization Madigan Army Medical Center Tri-West Healthcare Alliance Hire a Hero King County Housing Authority U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development The Northwest Veteran Tahoma National Cemetery Social Security Administration Marine for Life Vietnam Veterans of America U.S. Department Of Agriculture - Rural Development Veterans Affairs - Fisher House U.S. Air Force Enlisted Accessions Recruiter Veterans Affairs - Benefits Madigan Tri-Care Veterans Affairs – Vocational Rehab/Employment Green River College - Vet's retraining program National Association of Black Veterans Patriots Pride Operation Homefront Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs Washington National Guard Vet's Edge Tacoma Vet Center Military Officers Association Gold Star Wives Military Order of Purple Heart United States Department of Agriculture Government Services Administration Fort Lewis - Reflection Park King County Veterans Coalition WHAT: An interactive fair for veterans and their families to discover and discuss benefits available to them from numerous participating organizations, ranging from health care services to financial assistance. WHEN: Saturday, May 10, 2008, 9 a.m. – noon WHERE: Kennydale Elementary School 1700 NE 28th Street Renton, Washington 98056 Questions about the event can be directed to Congressman Reichert’s District Office at (206) 275-3438 or (877) 920-9208.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Reichert Seeks Input on Tanker Decision Wants constituents to speak up, add their voice Mercer Island, WA – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced the creation of an online survey on the Air Force’s decision on the contract awarded to EADS to build new air-refueling tankers, instead of Boeing. The survey is available at Reichert’s website, at www.house.gov/reichert <https://www.house.gov/reichert> . The page also includes other information, such as the survey pages of Senator Patty Murray and Congressman Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), and other related articles and correspondence. “I’ve heard from so many constituents who want to speak out on the issue,” said Reichert. “By utilizing the online survey, constituents are able to share if the agree or disagree, and why. The impact of this decision affects thousands of my constituents, and as we move forward on this issue, I appreciate their input on what our next steps should be. I want my constituents to add their voice to mine; to help me bolster my comments by adding their thoughts in the survey. Are they happy with this deal, or as upset as I am?” Constituents inputting their information will be updated on news regarding this issue. Petitions are prohibited from House of Representative websites by law, but surveys are permitted in seeking input from constituents on a particular issue. Congressman Reichert also release the following statement on the page: ”The recent announcement by the U.S. Air Force not to use U.S. aircraft for their new tanker program affects thousands of people in Western Washington many of them in the Eighth District. At a time of economic uncertainty, now is not the time to eliminate U.S. jobs. “We live in a time when we’re all aware of the threats to our nation and the importance of keeping our citizens safe. It is critical that wherever possible the companies making our sensitive military equipment should be American. “I am also concerned about the impact this decision might have on the case Boeing has against Airbus in front of the World Trade Organization. Airbus receives government subsidies – masked as “launch aid” – to build their aircraft. We must continue to ask questions about what the impact of Airbus losing this case would have on the price of their tankers in the future, and what effect this contract may have on Boeing’s case at the WTO. “The Air Force made a decision, but Boeing – and you – has a right to protest. I will join with other members of Congress in asking tough questions of this decision.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today issued the following video statement: “Hello, I’m Dave Reichert. “You know, sometimes you have to do what you think is right no matter what the consequences are. That is the way I operated when I was Sheriff, and that is the way I continue to operate in Congress. “That’s why I’m announcing today that I am going to voluntarily forgo requesting member projects, or “earmarks,” in the spending bills for 2009. “I am doing this because it is time for a change in the way things are done in Washington, D.C. “Earlier this year, I signed onto a bill that imposes a one-year moratorium on earmarks, and creates a bipartisan commission to look at how we can fix what has become a broken earmark system. A system that wastes taxpayer dollars and has been abused for personal gain. “Unfortunately, it appears that the Majority will not allow this bill to come to the floor and is taking no measures to fix the earmark system. We have come up on the deadlines for earmarks to be submitted and it looks like that it is just “business as usual.” “My constituents did not elect me to conduct business as usual. That’s why I am taking this action – to set an example, to push the leaders in both parties to recognize that enough is enough; that we must come together and reform Congress to create an earmark system that works. “I want to be clear: I am in favor of member projects, and I believe in the right of the Congress to dictate where federal dollars go. But the path we are headed down in Washington is not a good one. I am going to work to change our direction and create a federal spending process that is fair and open and that the public can trust. When it is, I will resume my strong advocacy for federal assistance for my District’s innovative and needed projects. “If you have any questions, please contact my office – information is available at my website, house.gov/reichert. “Thank you.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – A bipartisan group of five House members today filed a measure aimed at nullifying a controversial Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rule that would end a 32-year-old ban on radio and television broadcasters owning newspapers in Seattle and other of the nation's largest media markets. It is the House companion to legislation offered in the Senate last week. The “resolution of disapproval” is a congressional review mechanism, designed to give Congress an opportunity to prevent the implementation of rules created by federal agencies. It would need to pass both chambers and get the president’s signature or win an override vote within roughly three months from the time Congress is notified about the rule, which occurred in late February. “Consolidation already has brought us to the point where two companies control 70 percent of market revenue in an average radio market,” said U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), the resolution’s prime sponsor and member of the House panel with jurisdiction over the FCC. “We need to use every tool available to prevent further weakening of media-ownership rules.” “While I respect the free market, I believe it is a role of government to stand between corporations and consumers when the public interest is at stake. We want local media to remain local, diverse and free. Relaxing restrictions does not serve our citizens, and we’re taking further action to prevent these changes from negatively affecting our communities and the families at home. We have heard from our constituents loud and clear on this issue and will continue to do what we can to maintain the diverse, free and unbiased source of news that they clearly value,” added U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-Wash.). Other sponsors of Inslee’s resolution include U.S. Reps. Louise M. Slaughter (D-N.Y.), Maurice Hinchey (D-N.Y.) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.). “This bill signals growing momentum to end the corrupt era of Big Media giveaways,” said Josh Silver, executive director of Free Press Action Fund, which coordinates the StopBigMedia.com Coalition. “Members of both parties in both houses of Congress are fed up with the FCC’s intransigence on media ownership. We strongly support this bipartisan effort and will mobilize our activists across the country behind the resolution.” Inslee and Reichert long have been champions of media diversity. They both participated in a field hearing on media ownership the FCC held in Seattle on November 9. It was the last of only six public forums held nationwide. In December, the congressmen also introduced the Media Ownership Act, H.R.4835, which would halt the enactment of the new cross-ownership rule by requiring more time for public comment on rules proposed by the FCC. The Senate resolution of disapproval, S.J.Res. 28, was filed on March 5, 2008, by U.S. Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.). It has 17 bipartisan co-sponsors, including U.S. Sens. Barack Obama (D-Ill.), Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.), Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), and John Kerry (D-Mass.). In December, the FCC voted on and approved the new cross-ownership rule, which would end a three-decade ban on the common ownership of a daily newspaper and a television or radio station in the same market for the nation's top 20 media markets. It also would make it easier for the FCC to waive ownership rules in all markets. The rule was published in the Federal Register on February 21.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the testimony of Bill Gates before the House Science and Technology Committee, in what is likely to be Gates’ final congressional testimony before devoting the majority of his time to his philanthropic work with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Reichert also met with Gates in an afternoon closed-door meeting to further discuss high-tech, workforce, and education issues Wednesday. “Many of the issues Bill Gates raised today reflect my own concerns regarding America’s competitiveness for the future,” said Reichert. “Investments in STEM education and ensuring our companies are able to attract and retain the very best and brightest is critical to the future success and security of our country. It was an honor to have an influential figure from the Eighth District make his case before Congress.” The Microsoft Chairman testified today on efforts needed to strengthen the country’s competitiveness in the global marketplace, policies to encourage innovation and the role of technology in our economic growth. Congressman Reichert welcomed Gates with opening remarks and commented, “Through your leadership, Microsoft has remained not only a leading innovator, but also a beacon for thousands of small businesses across our country that the American Dream is alive and well and that with great vision and determination, great success can come from modest beginnings. Microsoft is truly an engine of our nation’s economic growth, and your company and your philanthropy continue to make tremendous contributions to Washington State, to our country, and to the global community. “These are challenging times, and I look forward to hearing your perspectives on trade, immigration, math and science education, foreign aid and other critical areas we need to improve upon so that America can remain a leader in this increasingly competitive global economy.” Reichert questioned Gates on the importance of aggressively opening global markets through free trade and the impact of the corporate tax rate on American companies’ abilities to compete in global markets. During his testimony, Gates commented, “While America’s innovation heritage is unparalleled, the evidence is mounting that we are failing to make the investments in our young people, our workers, our scientific research infrastructure, and our economy that will enable us to retain our global innovation leadership.” Gates also praised the Committee’s work, particularly in passing the America COMPETES Act, which was signed into law in 2007. COMPETES is legislation aimed at making America more competitive in the global economy by improving science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, as well as bolstering scientific research. Mr. Gates outlined the following goals for achieving what he described as “a strategy for innovation excellence:” o Strengthening educational opportunities, so that America’s students and workers have the skills they need to succeed in the technology- and information-driven economy of today and tomorrow; o Revamping immigration rules for highly skilled workers, so that U.S. companies can attract and retain the world’s best scientific talent; o Increasing federal funding for basic scientific research, to train the next generation of innovators and provide the raw material for further innovation and development by industry; and o Providing incentives for private-sector R&D, so that American businesses remain at the forefront in developing new technologies and turning them into new products and services.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – In what is likely to be his final congressional testimony before devoting the majority of his time to his philanthropic work with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates will testify before the House Science & Technology Committee on efforts needed to strengthen our country’s competitiveness in the global marketplace, policies to encourage innovation and the role of technology in our economic growth. Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), a member of the House Committee on Science and Technology, will welcome Mr. Gates and make an opening statement. This year, the Committee is celebrating its 50th Anniversary. To highlight this occasion, Mr. Gates will kick off the first in a series of hearings focusing on our country’s technological advances of the past half century and the challenges ahead. WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert, Eighth Congressional District of Washington Mr. William H. Gates, Chairman, Microsoft Corporation WHAT: Full Committee – Hearing Competitiveness and Innovation on the Committee’s 50th Anniversary with Witness: Bill Gates, Chairman of Microsoft WHEN: Wednesday, March 12, 2008 10:00a.m. – 12:00p.m. WHERE: 2318 Rayburn House Office Building As a member of the House Science and Technology Committee, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) serves on the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, and the Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight. Reichert is also a member of the House Congressional Internet Caucus and the House Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Caucus.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) attended the launch of the Space Shuttle Endeavour in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Endeavour lifted off from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida en route to the International Space Station (ISS). A bipartisan delegation of Members of Congress attended the launch, including House Science & Technology Committee Chairman Bart Gordon (D-TN) and Energy and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Nick Lampson (D-TX). “Space exploration and research continue to provide valuable discoveries, enhance our knowledge of the universe, and enable us to test and advance cutting-edge technologies for our nation’s future,” said Reichert. “America is and must remain a leader in global innovation and competitiveness. Missions like Endeavour’s keep our nation on a path of discovery and exploration for many years to come. “It was thrilling to witness ‘history in the making’ as the shuttle safely launched for the International Space Station. I particularly enjoyed sharing this opportunity with the many schoolteachers who gathered for the launch and who will bring the excitement of it back to their classrooms to encourage the next generation of astronauts, researchers and even teachers to engage in science education.” “Unfortunately our country is falling behind in math and science education. One of the many benefits of our space program is helping build a sense of wonder and excitement in math and science so important in encouraging children to become interested in those subjects.” According to NASA, the shuttle crew will deliver the first section of the Japanese-built Kibo laboratory and the Canadian Space Agency's two-armed robotic system called Dextre. Ten schoolteachers were selected to attend a NASA workshop as well as the shuttle launch. NASA officials developed an itinerary the teachers can take back to their classrooms to build enthusiasm about math and science among their students. The Committee maintains jurisdiction over U.S. civil space and aeronautics activity. For more information about the STS-123 crew and mission to the space station, visit NASA’s website. As a member of the House Science and Technology Committee, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) serves on the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, and the Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight. Reichert is also a member of the House Congressional Internet Caucus and the House Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Caucus.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today called on Congress to take action on pending free trade deals, with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea agreements still awaiting the approval of the U.S. House of Representatives. Although the House extended Andean trade preferences last week, congressional leadership has not yet scheduled a vote on any of the three pending agreements that are critical to economic growth in the Northwest. Reichert submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record: “Madame Speaker, While I am pleased that the House has once again renewed Andean trade preferences, I think this bill highlights more than ever the need to pass pending free trade agreements that have languished for far too long without consideration. We must continue to open markets to encourage American companies to innovate and compete with their global counterparts. This grows our economy and creates jobs. “I am proud to represent a district in Washington State that integrates our nation’s leading technology innovators with a vibrant and highly productive small business community. Opening new global markets gives them incentives to improve their products, produce more goods, and employ more American workers. I have seen these job-creating effects first-hand, with trade accounting for 1 out of every 3 jobs in my state. “In this time of economic uncertainty, Congress must act now to advance America’s broader trade agenda. We cannot allow important agreements with Panama and Korea to remain on hold while Europe and China continue to knock down trade barriers and improve their competitiveness in the global economy. And surely recent provocative comments by the leader of Venezuela helps put into perspective the urgent need to use the power of trade in Colombia. I urge my colleagues in the Majority to stop the delays and pass these free trade agreements. Let’s advance the trade measures needed to grow our economy, create jobs, and not only improve our relations with global partners, but also to foster global peace and freedom.” Congressman Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group, which unites Members of Congress to work toward the passage of trade legislation that supports business, jobs, and economic growth.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted for bipartisan mental health parity legislation that would expand insurance coverage for those suffering from mental disorders. After his effort to bring forward a broadly-supported Senate alternative was defeated, Reichert opposed final passage of H.R. 1424, the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act of 2007, because it could reduce access to care for the mentally ill and force the closure of a vital hospital in Washington State. “Mental disorders are very real and very critical medical conditions, and they must be treated as seriously as diseases of the lungs or heart,” said Reichert. “I am pleased that Congress is taking up the issue of parity in the coverage of these disorders and I fully support mental health parity. There is widespread support in Congress for parity in mental health coverage, and the best way to make this goal a reality is to work in a bipartisan fashion and in collaboration with all of the members of the mental health advocacy community. “That’s why I cosponsored an amendment to replace the controversial House legislation with a version that enjoys the full support of mental health patients, providers, and affected members of the business community. This carefully crafted compromise unanimously passed the Senate last year with the support of Senators Murray and Cantwell.” Reichert continued, “I am disappointed that the House refused to consider this broadly-supported, bipartisan legislation, and instead moved forward with a flawed bill that is simply too extreme and could derail the enactment of mental health parity altogether. The House bill could raise health care costs, reduce access to care for those suffering from mental illnesses, and close the Wenatchee Valley Medical Center. We must move forward with mental health coverage, but we cannot do so in a way that forces thousands of Washingtonians to lose access to medical services.” Reichert joined Representatives Heather Wilson (NM-01), John Kline (MN-02), and Dave Camp (MI-04) in bringing the Senate alternative before the House. After House leadership did not permit its consideration, Reichert took to the House floor to advocate for it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cZ0JO8kr7P8. The alternative bill (S.558) unanimously passed the Senate in September 2007. Among numerous provisions, it ensures coverage for mental illnesses and addiction disorders without requiring employers to offer coverage for disorders like jet lag, caffeine addiction, and mathematics disorder. 285 organizations support the Senate measure that Reichert brought forward as an alternative. A list can be found here: https://www.mhlg.org/01-02-08.pdf. Congressman Reichert has championed work on health care in the 110th Congress and throughout his tenure in office. His most recent health care accomplishments include: founding and co-chairing the bipartisan Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus; sponsoring and passing an amendment to bolster children’s emergency medical care (H.R. 3043), leading the fight in Congress to significantly increase funding for critical medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and serving in the Centrist Health Care Coalition, a congressional working group that meets monthly to explore and discuss a range of bipartisan, pragmatic ideas for reforming our health care system.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – "We are outraged that this decision taps European Airbus and its foreign workers to provide a tanker to our American military. "This is a blow to the American aerospace industry, American workers and America's men and women in uniform. "Boeing has 75 years of experience in building the tankers our military flies. Washington state's workers are second to none and so is their product. "At a time when our economy is hurting, this is a blow not only to our state, but the more than 40 states across the country who would help build this national plane. "We will be asking tough questions about the decision to outsource this contract. We look forward to hearing the Air Force's justification."
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced that the Pomegranate Center in Issaquah has received a $10,000 Challenge America Fast Track matching grant from the National Endowment for the Arts to aid in the creation of decorative tiles at Pear Tree Place, a residential rehabilitation facility located in Yakima, Washington. The grant provides support for arts projects in underserved communities through the United States. “I congratulate the Pomegranate Center on receiving this funding,” said Reichert, “Pear Tree Place in Yakima, created through the Pomegranate Center, will be a wonderful place for individuals and families who lack some of life’s essentials to start over, and this funding helps to foster a sense of community.” The Pomegranate Center, founded in 1986 by Executive Director Milenko Matanovic, is an internationally recognized leader in developing neighborhood gathering places and a leading nonprofit devoted to community-generated design and development. “Pomegranate Center is delighted to receive this grant,” said Matanovic, “It will be used to integrate art into Pear Tree Place in Yakima, a low-income, alcohol and drug free community that will become a home to individuals with disabilities and for previously homeless families. Pomegranate Center has a long track record of bringing art to such neighborhoods, and is looking forward to the opportunity of working with residents to create a more humane and safe place to live.” Since its inception, the Pomegranate Center has, among other things, published books and articles, produced performing arts festivals and beautified many affordable housing complexes.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today submitted the opening remarks for the Federal Communications Commission hearing on Media Ownership being held today in Seattle: (Click here to watch) “Good afternoon. I’d like to welcome the FCC Commissioners and all the attendees at today’s hearing to Seattle, WA. I appreciate the opportunity to share a few words with you and I regret that the Congressional schedule did not allow me to be with you today for this important discussion on media ownership. “Relaxing restrictions on media ownership is clearly not in the public interest. It seems strange that we must create rules in order to maintain diversity, yet, as Americans, we all know that freedom is not free. Our Founding Fathers had the foresight to create a great foundation of democracy in this country, and I’m proud to contribute my time working to protect those freedoms. American corporations create opportunities for us, creating jobs, fueling the economy and keeping our country competitive in this globalized era. But when it comes to media ownership, allowing these companies to simply take over can have the adverse effect of limiting the information available to local consumers. “Localism and diversity are the cornerstones of our democratic society. Localism enhances the public’s informed participation in our democracy, and a diverse media market reduces the risk that news will be censored or slanted by a few controlling interests. As the Supreme Court has stated, “the purpose of the First Amendment [of the Constitution] is to preserve an uninhibited marketplace of ideas in which truth will ultimately prevail,” and the right of the public to receive unbiased access to news and ideas should not “abridged by either Congress or by the FCC.” It is essential to the health of our democracy to ensure that this right is protected. “Today is the sixth and final public forum being conducted by the FCC on media ownership issues, prior to a potential vote later this year on new rules that will govern media consolidation. The rules adopted by the FCC will have a tremendous impact on the news coverage and variety of information available to communities across the United States. It is fitting that this final forum is being held here in Seattle, home to one of the largest remaining family and locally owned newspapers in America, The Seattle Times, which has exemplified commitment to and the power of localism. I thank the Commissioners for holding these forums. It is essential that the concerns of the American public be considered before making any changes to our current laws.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today introduced legislation that would expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and designate the Pratt River as Wild and Scenic. H.R. 4113, the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions and Wild Pratt River Act, will expand the existing 394,000-acre wilderness by 22,100 acres to include important lower-elevation lands and complete watersheds. “The legislation we introduced today is historic,” Reichert said. “Not only does it designate and preserve a wilderness area, but it also shows that we can continue the proud Washington State tradition of protecting public lands by working together. I’m honored to follow in the footsteps of Washingtonians who have worked so hard over the years to protect our cherished lands for future generations to enjoy. My bill was drafted with a bipartisan, collaborative group of citizens dedicated to conservation efforts and to preserving recreational opportunities. We included everyone who cares about this land, taking into consideration the thoughts offered by these interested experts, caretakers and constituents. “This legislation will protect important wildlife habitat, existing recreational opportunities and local economies that rely on both. By protecting this area, we follow in the direction that not only Washingtonians want to go, but citizens from across our country. Millions of Americans enjoy the outdoors and want to take care of it – and not just for themselves, but for their children and grandchildren.” The original Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 by the late Congressman Lloyd Meeds and provides economic benefits to the surrounding communities as well as to the entire State of Washington. The legislation, as introduced today, includes only lands within the Eighth Congressional District. Other key provisions of the legislation include: • To provide protection of the Wilderness Act for lower elevation lands, which ensures a richer diversity of ecosystems, including deeply forested valleys, and increasing the biodiversity of the overall wilderness area. It also provides a broader array of outdoor recreational opportunities for Washingtonians and other visitors who have made the Alpine Lakes Wilderness one of the most-visited in the country. • To designate the entire Pratt River, from its headwaters within the existing 1976 boundary of the Alpine Lakes Wilderness to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Snoqualmie River, as a “wild river.” One of the most visited wilderness areas in the country, the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country, consisting of the Pratt, Middle Fork and South Fork Snoqualmie Valleys. The area provides diverse recreational opportunities including horseback riding, camping, and fishing. The Pratt River is a truly wild river that supports unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and whitewater rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in favor of the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act, H.R. 3688. Reichert submitted the following statement: “I rise in strong support of the Peru Trade Promotion Agreement. We must continue to open markets to encourage American companies to innovate and compete with their global counterparts. This grows our economy and creates jobs. “I am proud to represent a district in Washington State that integrates our nation’s leading technology innovators with a vibrant and highly productive small business community. Opening new global markets gives them incentives to improve their products, produce more goods, and employ more American workers. I have seen these job-creating effects first-hand, with trade accounting for 1 out of every 3 jobs in my state. “The Peru Trade Promotion Agreement will level the playing field and increase market access for American and Peruvian companies. It will grow our nation’s economy by more than $2 billion. “I hope that the passage of this agreement finally advances our broader trade agenda in Congress. I am disappointed that it has taken more than 5 months since the bipartisan deal reached in May – and over one year since the Peru Free Trade Agreement was signed – for this measure to finally come to the floor. “We cannot allow important pending agreements with Colombia, Panama, and Korea to languish as the Peru measure did. I urge my colleagues in the Majority to stop the delays and pass these free trade agreements. Let’s advance the trade measures needed to grow our economy, create jobs, and improve our relations with global partners.” With Congressman Reichert’s support, the legislation passed the House 285-132. The legislation is still pending in the Senate.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today lauded increased funding for medical research and other critical health and education priorities as the House passed the Conference Report to the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (Labor-HHS) appropriations bill. Reichert was joined by Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA) in leading a bipartisan effort to bolster funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which provide the backbone of the nation’s medical research. Reichert and Markey brought together a coalition of nearly 200 Members over the past year to urge Congress to increase funding for the NIH. The effort proved successful as the NIH received $29.7 billion in the bill, a 3.1% increase after years of level-funding. “I personally know the pain of losing a loved one to cancer. We can’t ever sit back and wait for someone else to find a cure. A recent NIH study made advances in discovering a gene related to lung cancer, and that’s a great example of what this funding can do – make progress toward more answers, early detection and, eventually, cures,” said Reichert. “The NIH represents our greatest hope for finding cures and treatments for the chronic diseases and debilitating conditions that afflict millions of Americans. NIH research is also essential to containing soaring medical costs that threaten the viability of our nation’s health care system. A substantial portion of projected health care spending comes from expenses associated with managing diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer’s, and many other chronic or life-threatening diseases. I am pleased that Congress heeded our call to invest in medical research. It will make a difference in so many lives.” Reichert also announced that he secured over $3.75 million in critical funding for health and education projects in Washington’s Eighth District. Reichert continued, “Health and education funding are critical components of the foundation we create for our children. PICC gives hope to those who don’t even yet understand hope. PICC gives the littlest victims of drug abuse an opportunity to live. Two of my own grandchildren were adopted from PICC after being born to drug-addicted mothers. Both babies were weaned from their respective addictions to meth and heroin and are now healthy and thriving. I can’t say enough about the benefits each of these projects will bring. I’m excited for the opportunities created not only for the Eighth District, but also for all those who will benefit from the services these groups provide for our community.” Reichert announced the following projects included in the legislation: • $1.5 Million for Seattle Cancer Care Alliance – Proton Beam Therapy Center (Seattle, WA) • $150,000 for Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC) – Drug-Exposed Infants: Outreach and Education Program (Kent, WA) • $500,000 for City of Bellevue – Bellevue Arts Museum (Bellevue, WA) • $500,000 for College Success Foundation – Leadership 1000 Scholarship Program (Issaquah, WA) • $330,000 for Bellevue Community College – Building Safer Information Technology Environments (BSITE) (Bellevue, WA) • $186,000 for Pierce College District – Homeland Security Skill Panel Workshops Program (Tacoma, WA) • $290,000 for Northwest Kidney Center – Puget Sound Medical Surge Capacity Initiative (Sea-Tac, WA) • $300,000 University of Washington – University of Washington Bothell Nursing Faculty Consortium These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives FY 2008 Labor HHS Appropriations Conference Report, with a vote of 269-142, with expected passage in the Senate. After passage in the Senate, the final conference report is sent to the President for his signature.
04.09.2008	Mercer Island, WA – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is proud to announce that the Seattle-King County Workforce Development Council (WDC) has been awarded $2 million by the Department of Labor’s Youth Offender Grant Program. Through this funding, the WDC’s New Futures Network will expand its flagship youth “one-stop” center, to three additional locations in King County, providing comprehensive services assisting young adults who have experience with, or are close to facing the justice system. The New Futures Network youth center provides a place where youth can access multiple educational and vocational options supported by highly trained staff. “Programs for youth and young adults in danger of involving themselves in criminal activity give an outlet of hope to them,” said Reichert, the former King County Sheriff. “The programs not only help young people individually, but also the communities and families that they are a part of. I applaud the WDC for their work in bettering these young lives and our community – and look forward to seeing the benefits stemming from the new centers formed from this funding.” “This grant gives us an incredible opportunity to expand our proven services for youth offenders to South King County, where the need is great and resources are few,” said Marléna Sessions, Chief Operating Officer of the Workforce Development Council of Seattle-King County. “We know that training, work experience and career exploration are critical to giving young people a promising future, and through this funding we can bring those services to many more youth.” Along with the WDC, 15 other organizations nationwide were awarded money for programs that offer career training, alternative education and apprenticeships. You can find more information on WDC here: https://www.seakingwdc.org/index.html.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Last night Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted in favor of a measure commending the efforts of the American people and advocacy groups that raise awareness of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, Sudan. Reichert is a cosponsor of House Resolution 573, which passed the House 366-0. “The United States has a moral obligation to lead the effort to end genocide in Darfur,” Reichert said. “We should recognize and commend the many advocacy groups that willingly contribute their time to raising awareness and increasing support for the people of Darfur. Their selfless work highlights the problem in Darfur and reminds all of us that more must be done. “It’s an outrage to see the rampant human rights violations occurring in Darfur, and to see them continue with little action from the world community. As people continue to suffer, we must continue to fight to raise awareness and send out the call: something terrible is happening in Darfur and we need to stop it. In addition to this resolution, I was glad to support two other measures that call on the President to take action and condemning attacks on African Union peacekeepers. I am proud that the House passed them but they are not enough. How many resolutions will we have to pass before something is done?” Two other measures regarding Darfur were considered on the floor of the House of Representatives Monday evening and passed by voice vote: H.Res. 726: Calling on the President of the United States and the international community to take immediate steps to respond to and prevent acts of rape and sexual violence against women and girls in Darfur, Sudan, eastern Chad and the Central African Republic. H.Res. 740: Condemning in the strongest terms the attacks on African Union peacekeepers that occurred in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 29, 2007. Congressman Reichert is a member of the Congressional Sudan Caucus, a group of Members of Congress dedicated to ending the genocide in Darfur. Since the beginning of this year, Reichert has signed onto multiple pieces of legislation regarding the crisis in Darfur and also voted in favor of H.R. 2764, the Department of State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which included $949 million for humanitarian relief efforts in Sudan. In 2006, Congressman Reichert was acknowledged for his efforts on behalf of the people of Darfur by the Genocide Intervention Network. Congressman Reichert was given an ‘A’ grade for his efforts stop the genocide of thousands in the Darfur region of Sudan and recognized as a leader in Congress on the issue.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congressman Jim Matheson (D-UT) sent a letter of request to House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX), asking for movement on Reichert’s bill, the Good Samaritan Protection for Construction, Architectural, and Engineering Volunteers Act. “As a former first responder, I understand the desire to help those in need, especially when you have the skills and tools to do so,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County. “The unfortunate disaster in California provides a renewed platform to discuss the importance of this legislation, and the impact it could have, especially on the victims who need assistance.” This legislation proposes to create protections for “Good Samaritan” contractors, construction companies, architectural and engineering industries when they answer the call for help. By immediately responding to disasters and emergencies, these industries provide support for rescue, recovery and eventual clean-up efforts. Following 9/11, some construction companies faced lawsuits for the work they did in the aftermath of the attacks. The bill provides construction, architectural, and engineering entities qualified immunity from liability when volunteering their services after a natural disaster or attack. “As we witness the horrific fires affecting much of Southern California, we are reminded of the horrific images of September 11, 2001, and Hurricane Katrina,” states the letter, signed by Reichert and Matheson. It continues, “As with these other disasters, we are already witnessing these good Samaritans responding to this current tragedy…When construction companies’ expertise is needed, the construction industry should not have cause for hesitation in responding to help and possibly saving lives, for fear of lawsuits…This week’s tragedy is an unfortunate reminder of the need to pass legislation that will provide construction contractors and architectural and engineering entities qualified immunity from liability when providing volunteer services in the wake of a disaster to ensure that such services will be available in future times of need.” A copy of the letter is attached. This legislation is supported by the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Council of Engineering Companies, the Association of General Contractors, the American Institutes of Architects and the National Society of Professional Engineers.Americans.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Debate on the House floor today demonstrated overwhelming bipartisan support for H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, drafted by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA) that aims to prevent radicalization and homegrown terrorism. The House of Representatives will cast a roll call vote later today, with expected passage of the bill. Congressman Reichert gave the following remarks in his opening statement during debate on the bill: “While terrorist recruitment and radicalization is a worldwide problem that must be combated globally, the United States cannot afford to simply focus on eliminating terrorists abroad. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007. As the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, I would like to commend Subcommittee Chairman Harman and full Committee Chairman Thompson for working with me in drafting this bipartisan legislation. “This legislation is focused on addressing the issue of radicalization and homegrown terrorism. While terrorist recruitment and radicalization is a worldwide problem that must be combated globally, the United States cannot afford to simply focus on eliminating terrorists abroad. It is essential that we fully understand the nature of the threat to the United States from homegrown radicals. “In the National Intelligence Estimate on the Terrorist Threat to the US Homeland released in July of this year, the Director of National Intelligence and the National Intelligence Council assess that ‘the spread of radical Internet sites, increasingly aggressive anti-US rhetoric and actions, and the growing number of radical, self-generating cells in Western countries indicate that the radical and violent segment of the West’s Muslim population is expanding, including in the United States. The arrest and prosecution by US law enforcement of a small number of violent Islamic extremists inside the United States—who are becoming more connected ideologically, virtually, and/or in a physical sense to the global extremist movement—points to the possibility that others may become sufficiently radicalized that they will view the use of violence here as legitimate.’ “Because of the freedoms of our society and the interconnected world we live in, radical ideas spread easily. These ideas can come from overseas or from within the United States. They can come from within prisons, inside of isolated religious or ethnic enclaves, and on the internet. These ideas reach people in the privacy of their homes via the internet and can be similarly accessed by vulnerable individuals in schools and libraries. “Unfortunately, our freedoms are being abused by individuals whose sole purpose in life is to destroy our way of life. While we have not seen radicalization to the extent witnessed in other Western countries like the United Kingdom, we have seen homegrown terrorist cells. Prisoners in Sacramento State Prison plotted to attack Jewish and U.S. military targets. Radicalized individuals plotted to destroy fuel tanks at the John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and aimed to ‘create carnage’ at Ft. Dix in New Jersey. “While clearly law enforcement and intelligence efforts are key to intercepting and interdicting these threats, our country needs a strategy to ensure that violent radical ideologies are contained. Because of the nature of this threat, it is essential that we understand why individuals become radicalized and what we can do to prevent radical ideologies from taking hold and spreading within the United States. “H.R. 1955 establishes a National Commission on the Prevention of Violent Radicalization and Ideologically Based Violence. This commission incorporates aspects of H.R. 1695, the PREVENT Act, which I introduced earlier this year. The purpose of this national commission would be to proactively get ahead of the radicalization problem so that, as a nation, we can combat these radical ideologies before they become widespread within our borders. “In addition, H.R. 1955 includes provisions to help us learn from our international partners on how they are trying to prevent radicalization and homegrown terrorism. This issue is not new to many countries throughout the world, such as the United Kingdom. I believe it is critical for us to work with our international partners and learn from their past successes and failures. “Lastly, this legislation includes provisions that ensure that privacy and civil rights are protected for all
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives will consider legislation Tuesday drafted by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA) that aims to prevent radicalization and homegrown terrorism. H.R. 1955 is primarily focused on establishing a National Commission to study the root causes of radicalization to prevent homegrown terror attacks, such as the recent terror plots at JFK Airport in New York, and at Fort Dix in New Jersey. Both attacks were planned by individuals living inside the United States. Radicalization is the term used to describe individuals who have been influenced by extremist beliefs leading to violence for the purpose of political, religious, or social change. “To protect the nation we must be proactive, not reactive,” said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence. “It is important that we develop a strategy to understand and combat violent radical beliefs before they take root in our country. The better we understand radicalization, the better we can prevent radical ideologies from spreading inside America and harming our citizens. Specifically, this legislation creates a commission much like the 9/11 Commission to examine and report upon the facts and causes of radicalization inside our own borders.” The most recent National Intelligence Estimate on the Terrorist Threat to the US Homeland indicates that this is a growing problem. The unclassified key findings state: “the radical and violent segment of the West’s Muslim population is expanding, including in the United States” and that there is “the possibility that others may become sufficiently radicalized that they will view the use of violence here as legitimate.” Reichert continues, “I’m pleased to work with Chairman Harman on this legislation, which incorporates much of my bill, H.R. 1695, the PREVENT Act. Our subcommittee held hearings across the country, and recent attack plots only reinforce the need for this legislation. Identifying the patterns of radicalization, where at-risk individuals and their influences exist, and isolating the contributing factors can help us mitigate problems before they begin – and that’s what this legislation does.” H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, unanimously passed the Homeland Security Committee in August. It was crafted jointly by both Ranking Member Reichert and Chairman Harman to fight against homegrown terrorism. Other provisions of the legislation are the authorization of a center of excellence to study homegrown terror, protections of privacy and civil liberties, and a provision for international cooperation on this effort. The bill heavily incorporated ideas included in Ranking Member Reichert’s bill H.R. 1695, The Preventing Radicalism by Exploring and Vetting its Emergence as a National Threat (PREVENT) Act, introduced in March 2007.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to override the President’s veto of legislation to renew and expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). “I disagreed with the President’s veto of SCHIP and cast my vote to overturn it. The SCHIP bill provides needed health insurance for 4 million more low-income children – without cutting Medicare – and fixes a long-standing funding inequity that unfairly punishes Washington State. I strongly supported this version of SCHIP from the very beginning of this debate, cosponsoring it in the House, and I was disappointed that the President opposed a measure that provides for the health care needs of children without harming care for seniors.” Despite the Congressman’s support, the veto override measure fell just short of the two-thirds majority vote needed to renew the program, by a vote of 273-156. “I am dismayed that both parties allowed an issue as important as children’s health insurance to devolve into such a bitter, partisan battle,” said Reichert. “We cannot allow children’s health care to languish while shameful attacks continue to be waged for purely political purposes. It is disappointing that we could not obtain the votes necessary to override the President’s veto. But rather than dwelling on this defeat, we must immediately move forward to negotiate a compromise that ensures those children most in need of health care can receive it. I intend to remain actively involved in the SCHIP debate.” The measure vetoed by the President was nearly identical to an amendment and an alternate bill that Reichert cosponsored during House consideration of SCHIP. The original House measure (H.R. 3162) would have renewed the SCHIP program by cutting nearly $200 billion from seniors’ Medicare benefits, and did not include a full fix to a funding inequity that prevents Washington State from receiving its fair share of federal SCHIP dollars. Reichert opposed this original bill because it would have forced 133,000 seniors in Washington State to lose their Medicare health plans and cut critical health services, without rectifying this long-standing inequity. In September, the House brought amended SCHIP legislation to the floor that mirrored the version that Reichert and the Senate supported. Reichert voted in favor of the bill, which was vetoed by the President in September.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today visited the Department of Homeland Security’s National Response Coordination Center (NRCC) in Washington D.C. to observe TOPOFF 4, the nation’s premier exercise of terrorism preparedness, involving top officials at every level of government, as well as representatives from the international community and the private sector. As Sheriff of King County in 2003, Congressman Reichert was a participant in TOPOFF 2, which was held in Seattle, WA. “These exercises give federal, state, and local officials much-needed rehearsal,” said Reichert. “Following the disastrous response to Hurricane Katrina, Congress owed it to the American people to respond to subsequent threats with an overwhelming capability that draws on the best of our entire country.” Sponsored by the Department of Homeland Security, TOPOFF (Top Officials) 4 is the fourth exercise in the TOPOFF Exercise Series, a congressionally mandated exercise program. Each TOPOFF exercise involves a two-year cycle of seminars, planning events, and exercises culminating in a full-scale assessment of the nation’s capacity to prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks involving Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). Joining DHS and other federal agencies in this important effort are the States of Oregon and Arizona, the U.S. Territory of Guam, and the countries of Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. “It is clear that the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA in general are learning from their past mistakes, and I commend them for their work. In 2003 during TOPOFF 2, there was confusion about who was in charge during the response. Unfortunately this was most evident during the poor federal response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Today I was able to witness a coordinated federal response to assist state and local officials and to provide help when needed. Of particular notice was the exercise in Phoenix, where the state and local officials have not asked for federal assistance with the response the federal government is not interfering.” The exercise is intended to engage participants at all levels of government, from Cabinet Secretaries to governors, mayors, and city managers; to local fire, EMS, police, and search-and-rescue personnel; to professionals in law enforcement, public health, and public communications; to members of the private sector. For more information on TOPOFF 4, visit https://www.dhs.gov/xprepresp/training/gc_1179350946764.shtm. During the 109th Congress as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, Reichert was instrumental in the comprehensive FEMA reform legislation. He introduced the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006 that was included in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for FY07, H.R. 5441, which passed the House and became law. It was the broadest reform to the Department of Homeland Security since its inception.
04.09.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is the only centrist representative of the Washington State delegation, according to a study of votes released by Congressional Quarterly this morning. The data echoes the assessment by the independent publication National Journal, who named Reichert the only centrist member of Washington State’s delegation in 2006, and again in March 2007. The table below shows how frequently House lawmakers have supported their party's position so far this year. The 2007 support scores reflect the percentage of the time that a lawmaker voted with his or her party's majority on roll-call votes that pitted a majority of Democrats against a majority of Republicans. As of Aug. 4, the beginning of Congress' summer district work period, the two parties had opposed each other on 526 of 839 House roll-call votes. CQ Party Unity Scores (as of Aug. 4) U.S. House of Representatives Washington State Delegation District Name Party 2007 01 Jay Inslee D 98 02 Rick Larsen D 96 03 Brian Baird D 96 04 Doc Hastings R 94 05 Cathy McMorris Rodgers R 90 06 Norm Dicks D 96 07 Jim McDermott D 98 08 Dave Reichert R
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) has nominated Mike and Debby Jansen as 2007 Angels in Adoption for their outstanding efforts to help drug-addicted newborn babies find a home. Over the past nine years, Mike and Debby have opened their home and their hearts to eight newborns, all born to drug-addicted mothers. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which orchestrates the Angels in Adoption program, will honor the Jansens, along with more than 180 Angels from across the nation, at an awards ceremony and gala event tonight in Washington, DC, October 4, 2007. “Mike and Debby are a remarkable couple,” said Reichert. ”They are truly deserving of this honor for their work and sacrifice to provide children across our state with the gift of family. They have tirelessly worked with the Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC) to bring hope to the littlest victims of drug abuse. This dedication and eagerness to provide a loving home for some of our neediest children is very rare. Two of my own grandchildren were adopted from PICC after being born to drug-addicted mothers. Both babies were weaned from their respective addictions to meth and heroin and are now healthy and thriving. The Jansens have not only made a difference in the lives of their seven – soon to be eight – adopted children, but their kindness and compassion continues to inspire others. These children are living proof that early intervention works.” The Pediatric Interim Care Center in Kent, Washington, provides specialized, 24-hour care for drug-exposed and medically fragile newborns. PICC brings babies safely through withdrawal from drugs, including heroin, cocaine, methamphetamines, methadone, and prescription drugs. The pioneering program also facilitates visitation for families, provides caregiver training, and follows the babies after they leave, and offers and a range of community outreach and education services. The Angels in Adoption™ program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. Former “National Angels” include First Lady Laura Bush, Jane Seymour, Muhammad Ali, the late Dave Thomas, Steven Curtis Chapman, and Bruce Willis. “Our goal is to raise awareness of the millions of orphans and foster children in the United States and abroad that are in need of permanent, safe and loving homes, and we congratulate Mike and Debby for their role in helping us to achieve this goal,” said Deanna Carlson Stacy, CCAI’s executive director. “Thanks to Congressman Reichert, Mike and Debby will receive the recognition they deserve for their tireless effort in the mission of helping these children realize their basic right of a family.” The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is the elimination of the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. CCAI was created in 2001 by the active co-chairs of the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) to more effectively raise Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. For more information visit https://www.ccainstitute.org/
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) testified today before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on his legislation, H.R. 367, the Gang Elimination Act of 2007, as part of a hearing on “Gang Crime Prevention and the Need to Foster Innovative Solutions at the Federal Level.” “Our local law enforcement officials on the front line of this battle cannot win the war if they don’t have a clear understanding of what they’re up against and the tools to win,” said Reichert. “As we debate legislation, we sometimes lose sight of the fact that we are talking about human lives. I’ve seen the death on the streets – not only young people lose their lives, but also our police officers. Congress needs to come together, forming legislation that will help our local communities stop this killing. “These bills represent a national roadmap against gangs that continue to infiltrate across the country. This is not a new problem, nor is it limited to major urban areas. More and more small communities are suffering from gang violence, and innocent bystanders are getting caught in the crossfire. Unfortunately, this is an issue that I’m extremely familiar with, but also with that experience comes a full understanding of the importance of moving this legislation forward. Today is a good step in the right direction.” Reichert’s legislation in essence creates a “Gang Most-Wanted List.” It would require the Attorney General to develop a National Strategy to tackle the gang epidemic, and would specifically identify and target the three international drug gangs that present the greatest threat to the United States, through measures of ties to terrorist organizations, the amount of drugs they import and distribute and the threat they pose to our children. With this list, law enforcement agencies will be able to identify and share information across the country about the most violent gang members and aggressively pursue them. Last week, the Associated Press reported that the King County Sherriff’s office in Washington will have a gang unit once again, noting that gangs have become more sophisticated, using computers, money and violence to build criminal businesses. Reichert’s Gang Elimination Act is part of the “Suburban Agenda” created by the House Suburban Caucus. Members of the House Suburban Caucus have been working intensively to refine a new agenda for Congress meeting key priorities in education, health care, economic growth and conservation. The hearing included testimony on four additional pieces of anti-gang-related legislation, including: * H.R. 3152, the Anti-Gang Task Force Act , which directs the U.S. Attorney General to establish, staff, and fund anti-gang task forces, consisting of federal, state, and local law enforcement authorities, to coordinate efforts to combat criminal gangs and offenders; * H.R. 3474, the National Safe Streets Gang Crime Prevention Act of 2007 , which would create a National Gang Activity Database to allow law enforcement officials nationwide to track and share information about gang members and their activities. * H.R. 1582, the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007 , which would provide new resources for community-based gang prevention and intervention activities. The bill would also revise criminal laws and penalties to give gang prosecutors new tools in the fight against gang violence; and, * H.R. 880, the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2007 , a comprehensive bill to increase gang prosecutions and prevent gang-related crimes.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the extension of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program, which would have otherwise expired on September 30. The TAA program was established under the Trade Act of 1974, and provides aid to workers whose jobs are displaced or whose hours of work and wages are reduced as a result of increased imports. Last week, Reichert supported House-passed legislation to extend the program through the end of the year. “This program provides important support for American workers,” said Reichert. “We live in an increasingly globalized world, and free-trade agreements are necessary to maintain American competitiveness in the global economy. In fact, jobs tied to trade pay better than non-trade jobs and we must put our country in a position to compete, especially in Washington State which has an economy so dependent on trade. “As we open new markets and increase the international flow of goods and services, we must make certain that the American workers whose jobs are displaced by trade obtain the necessary skills to adapt to this global marketplace and re-enter the workforce quickly. This extension allows for much-needed time to debate further reforms to TAA, while simultaneously ensuring that our workers receive the assistance they deserve. The world economy is here and will be here to stay. And as our economy continues to shift, we have a responsibility to look out for our working families.” Workers whose employment is adversely affected by increased imports may apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance programs. TAA offers a variety of benefits and reemployment services to assist unemployed workers prepare for and obtain suitable employment. Workers may be eligible for training, job search and relocation allowances, income support and other reemployment services. A short-term extension of TAA through November 16, 2007, was signed into law on Saturday, September 29, as part of House Joint Resolution 52. The original bill passed through the House and Senate would have extended the program through December 31, 2007. Congressman Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group, which unites Members of Congress to work toward the passage of trade legislation that supports business, jobs, and economic growth.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) proclaimed an important step forward for the security of non-profit groups in Washington State today. Reichert announced that the Department of Homeland Security is making funds available to five non-profits in Washington who will receive $543,994, under the Fiscal Year 2007 Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP). “This is an amazing and critical amount of funding for these groups,” said Reichert. “These grants facilitate enhanced security and allow for preventative measures that, unfortunately, are necessary due to the threats that they receive. I’m pleased that DHS saw the need and came through." After the tragic shooting at the Seattle Jewish Federation offices on July 28, 2006, Reichert sent a letter to DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff highlighting the funding need presented by extra security at activities around Jewish synagogues and Muslim mosques. Reichert continued, “The terrible events of last year were a tragic reminder of the threat we all face. These funds will help the Jewish Federation and other nonprofit groups in the region close their security gaps. In addition, these funds will go to help protect the most vulnerable population of all, our children.” The specific breakdown of the funding included: * $100,000 for the Jewish Federation of Seattle * $100,000 for the Herzi-Ner Tamid in Seattle * $100,000 for the Stroum Jewish Community Center of Great Seattle * $74,944 for the Jewish Day School of Metropolitan Seattle * $97,695 for Food Lifeline in Seattle * $71,355 for Jewish Family Service of Seattle The grants are awarded to eligible 501(c)(3) organizations at high risk of international terrorist attack in high risk Urban Areas. Eligibility was limited to organizations located in UASI sites. Grants are being awarded through eligible State Administering Agencies according to criteria that include: (1) prior threats or attacks by a terrorist organization, (2) symbolic value of a site that renders it a possible terrorist target, (3) the organization’s role in responding to or recovering from terrorist attacks, and (4) the organization’s threat, vulnerability and/or consequence as determined by a previously conducted risk assessment.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today to condemn the slanderous personal attack of General David H. Petraeus by the advocacy group MoveOn.org in a New York Times advertisement that appeared September, 10, 2007, the same day he testified before Congress. The ad suggested General Petraeus was going to falsely testify before Congress and used a play on his last name to say he might “betray us.” “The New York Times ad by MoveOn.org is just despicable,” said Reichert. “Every man and woman in uniform deserves our utmost respect and to impugn an Army General’s motives with personal attacks is an outrage and an affront to everyone serving the Armed Forces. Whether or not you agree or disagree with the war, it is beyond the pale to attack the members of our military for carrying out the orders they have been given. “The ad was a clear attempt to undermine his Congressional testimony for political gain and that is an outrage. General Petraeus was confirmed unanimously by the United States Senate with the full understanding that he had a plan to win in Iraq and that he was to come before Congress and report on that plan. We have sunk to a new low if we do not condemn in the strongest terms groups that would then attack him for doing what we have asked him to do. “We are currently at war. Young men and women are risking their lives everyday and some are paying the ultimate sacrifice because we have asked them to do so. We should support them, we should give them what they need to succeed, and we should show them respect. I am pleased that the House sent them a bipartisan message today that we do respect them and we will not allow attacks on them to go unanswered. “I have personally met with local members of MoveOn.org in my office and listened to their concerns about the war. They have legitimate concerns and have every right to make their voices heard. But let’s leave the heated political debate for our politicians and elected leaders, not target our military personnel who are sacrificing on behalf of all of us. I will continue to meet with the local MoveOn members and I hope they will join me in saying this ad went too far and there is a better way to discuss the issues surrounding the war.” The House resolution was introduced on September 10, but House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), during a speech on the House Floor last week, said he would not be bringing the resolution to the floor. Today, the resolution was introduced as a procedural motion and passed the House by a vote of 341-79. The Senate overwhelmingly passed the legislation condemning the attack ad by Moveon.org, 72-25. The resolution, included in H.J.Res.52, honors all members of the Armed Forces, civilian personnel serving in harm's way, and their families, and gives a pledge to debate any supplemental funding request or any policy decisions regarding the war in Iraq with the solemn respect and the commitment to intellectual integrity that the sacrifices of these members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel deserve.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted to renew and expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). “This is a great victory for children’s health care and Washington State,” said Reichert. “I was proud to support this measure, which renews and expands health care coverage for low-income children without slashing any Medicare benefits for seniors. I have been a strong supporter of SCHIP from the very beginning of this debate, but I wanted to ensure that this important program was funded without needlessly forcing a choice between kids’ health and seniors’ health. The bill that passed the House today is nearly identical to the version that I cosponsored as both an amendment and as an alternate bill. "I am gratified that after some debate my colleagues from Washington State joined me in passing a bill that shows you don't have to make a terrible choice between health care for low-income children and low-income seniors.” “I am also pleased that this legislation not only corrects a longstanding funding inequity that unfairly punished Washington State for its early efforts to cover low-income children; but it does so at the higher level that I supported in my legislation. I have been fighting for our state to receive its fair share of federal SCHIP funds since I arrived in Congress. This bill finally achieves that goal. Washington’s allocation of SCHIP dollars will nearly double under this measure.” Reichert also highlighted the inclusion of his own SCHIP bill (H.R. 593) in this comprehensive children’s health care package. “I introduced legislation in January providing outreach grants to states to enroll more eligible but uninsured children in Medicaid and SCHIP. I am thrilled that House and Senate leaders saw the wisdom of my bill and included its provisions in this important health care package.” The original House measure (H.R. 3162) would have renewed the SCHIP program by cutting nearly $200 billion from seniors’ Medicare benefits, and did not include a full fix to Washington’s funding inequity. A staunch advocate for seniors’ health care, Reichert opposed this original bill because it would have forced 133,000 seniors in Washington State to lose their Medicare health plans without rectifying the state’s long-standing funding inequity. After being denied the opportunity to amend that original bill, Reichert sought out leaders of both parties to advocate for the measure that passed the House today. “On this vote, I stuck to my guns. Thousands of my constituents were subjected to dishonest calls about the previous vote, which made an effort to mislead them about my stance on children’s and seniors’ health care. Tonight, as I did before, I went with my conscience and what I’ve consistently supported from the beginning, and the same fact stood: I do support expanding children’s health care and this bill does just that.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today in favor of the Drug Endangered Children Act, which will extend the Drug Endangered Children grant program. This critical grant program provides funding to improve coordination between the state and local agencies that provide assistance to drug endangered children. It also aids the transition of these children to safe residential environments. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), more than 15,000 children were found at sites with meth labs from 2000 to 2004. “I’ve seen firsthand the effects that drug-use homes have on children," said Reichert. “Two of my own grandchildren were adopted from the Pediatric Interim Care Center in Kent, Washington, after being born to drug-addicted mothers. Both babies were weaned from their respective addictions to meth and heroin and are now healthy and thriving. Domestic violence, neglect and abuse are some of the terrible consequences of drug-use homes, but so are birth defects and other medical issues which cost money and lives. Mothers continue to give birth to drug-addicted children, and the cycle will just continue if we don't stop it. This program is a great example of how we can do that, by providing critical training for workers and the development of tailored programs to rescue innocent children from these hazardous and undeserved situations.” According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy: “Innocent children are sometimes found in homes and other environments (hotels, automobiles, apartments, etc.) where methamphetamine and other illegal substances are produced. Around the country, Drug Endangered Children (DEC) programs have been developed to coordinate the efforts of law enforcement, medical services, and child welfare workers to ensure that children found in these environments receive appropriate attention and care.” This legislation, introduced by Representative Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), provides for a two-year extension of the federal grant program for Drug Endangered Children at $20 million a year for 2008 and 2009. Reichert is a strong advocate for the Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC), which provides specialized, 24-hour care for drug-exposed and medically fragile newborns. PICC brings babies safely through withdrawal from drugs, including heroin, cocaine, methamphetamines, methadone, and prescription drugs. The pioneering program also facilitates visitation for families, provides caregiver training, follows the babies after they leave, and offers and a range of community outreach and education services. Congressman Reichert is the former Sheriff of King County in Washington State, which includes the City of Seattle. Reichert brought national recognition to the King County Sheriff’s Office as head of the Green River Task Force solving the largest serial murder case in U.S. history. Reichert served as president of the Washington State Sheriffs’ Association and an executive board member of the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs. He has served on numerous advisory boards including the King County Criminal Justice Council and the King County Domestic Violence Council. Senator Cornyn introduced the Senate bill, Stop the Sale of Murderabilia to Protect the Dignity of Crime Victims Act of 2007, S. 1528, in May 2007. As Texas Attorney General from 1999-2002, John Cornyn directed many initiatives vital to the interests of Texas families. Cornyn served for six years as a District Court Judge in San Antonio before being elected to the Texas Supreme Court in 1990, where he served for seven years. Congressman Ellsworth is a former Sheriff Vanderburgh County, Indiana, where he completed two terms. During his tenure as Sheriff, Brad became a leader in the war on methamphetamines, and started Indiana's most comprehensive website to track and monitor sexual offenders. He also served as President of the Indiana Sheriff's Association.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Brad Ellsworth (D-IN) will join Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) at a bipartisan press conference Tuesday, September 25, to mark the National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims by announcing the introduction of legislation that would cut off the source of “murderabilia” by prohibiting state or federal prisoners from placing almost any item into the mail for purposes of interstate commerce. They are announcing introduction of a House bill that Senator Cornyn has already introduced in the Senate Murderabilia , a term coined by activist Andy Kahan, refers to “shocking and soul-chilling” prison collectibles, ranging from Ted Bundy’s hubcaps to a criminals own fingernails which have been put on sale on internet sites such as murderauction.com, among others. With the work of Kahan, eBay ceased the sale of Murderabilia in 2001. The families of victims of crimes, who have already endured tremendous grief, are further victimized and exploited by the criminals and dealers who sell “murderabilia.” WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) Congressman Brad Ellsworth (D-IN) Dan Levey, National President of Parents of Murdered Children WHAT: To announce the introduction of legislation to protect victims’ rights and combat the exploitation of criminal activity. WHEN: Tuesday, September 25, 2007, 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Cannon Terrace Cannon House Office Building Washington , D.C. CONTACT: Reichert: Abigail Shilling, 202-225-7761 Cornyn: Brian Walsh, 202-224-2934 Ellsworth: Liz Farrar, 202-225-4636
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that the Cities of Snoqualmie and North Bend will receive $2 million to build infrastructure for water and streetscapes, and other additional improvements. These grants come via the Economic Development Administration (EDA) within the Department of Commerce (DOC), who estimates that 700 jobs will be created as a result of these grants. “It is always exciting for cities in my district to receive the federal funds they need,” said Reichert, “These grant awards in particular are a wonderful example of the partnerships in the Eighth District between federal, county, and city governments working together to maximize the investment of tax dollars. One of the goals of my office is to provide whatever help or information our local governments need to help build those relationships and win these grants.” Snoqualmie’s funds will create 300 jobs, through the construction to redevelop historic downtown Snoqualmie as part of an overarching effort to offset a decline in the region’s forest and wood-product industries. These improvements will serve as a catalyst for attracting private investment to redevelop underutilized and vacant sites in the downtown area. The DOC estimates that $15 million in private investment in the area could be leveraged through these improvements. Mayor Matt Larson, discussed his excitement about the award. “We are thrilled and very grateful to have received this grant,” said Larson, “When combined with local matching dollars, Snoqualmie will now be able to move forward with a $3.2 million dollar downtown redevelopment project. This project will greatly compliment the pending construction of our new City Hall and a proposed Northwest Railway Museum facility which is in the final stages of planning. Collectively, these efforts will create a great deal of positive momentum and measurable results for our downtown revitalization efforts in the coming year. I sincerely thank Congressman Reichert and King County and City staff members Martin Dicker and Nancy Tucker for all their help and assistance in acquiring this much needed grant.” The investment for North Bend will support construction to end the development moratorium caused by a water shortage in North Bend. It will allow for the expansion of existing businesses and the attraction of new businesses to the area. DOC estimates 400 jobs created, and that $15 million in private investment in the area could be leveraged there also. The EDA’s mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. The EDA’s Partnership Planning programs help support organizations (Economic Development Districts) with their long-term planning efforts and their outreach to the economic development community on EDA’s programs and policies.
04.09.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) hosted a display by Bellevue-based company PACCAR in Washington, D.C. today outside the U.S. Capitol, to showcase PACCAR’s cutting edge “No-Idle” System that will reduce the nation’s reliance on oil. The premise is simple: trucks burn a lot of fuel idling to keep the cabin cooled or warmed for the trucker while they are sleeping. Their system provides heating and cooling with the engine off. “I am so proud to host an Eighth District company here in Washington, D.C., to showcase their leading technology,” said Reichert. “Their visit creates a buzz on Capitol Hill, not only for their trucks and system, but also by encouraging a bigger picture discussion on the need for cleaner technologies to protect the environment and reduce our dependence on oil. There are some things the government can do to reduce emissions, such as raising CAFE standards and giving incentives for plug-in hybrids. But we can also highlight and encourage the private sector to come up with solutions themselves. This is yet another example of how Puget Sound is leading the country on market-based solutions to solving environmental problems.” Fuel conservation initiatives are a critical tool to help reduce fuel consumption and clean our air. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that one truck burns eight gallons of diesel fuel over a ten-hour rest period while idling. Over the course of a year, this would roughly amount to 2,400 gallons of diesel fuel burned during idling. Equipping a single truck with an idling device stands to reduce fuel usage considerably while saving trucking companies thousands of dollars in fuel costs. PACCAR estimates that the technology included in the trucks pays for itself in reduced fuel costs within 18 months. Reichert is a cosponsor of Congresswoman Kay Granger’s legislation, the Idle Reduction Tax Credit Act of 2007. This legislation proposes a tax credit for the purchase of idle reduction equipment outfitted in commercial diesel trucks. The “No-Idle” System technology can greatly reduce the amount of fuel used in trucks. This is done by reducing the amount of fuel used while “idling.” For long haul trucking the "no idle" issue can be a very significant part of reducing air emissions and diesel fuel use. The Kenworth Clean Power system has been fully field tested and is now available. The system can provide up to 10 hours of heating or cooling and provide electrical power for the same time period to run microwaves, TVs, computers and other small electrical appliances. 10 hours is the required off-duty period a driver must take between driving times.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today called on the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) to apologize for dishonest automated telephone calls placed to thousands of Eighth District constituents that misrepresent his support for children’s and seniors’ health care. Reichert condemned the SEIU’s deceptive campaign, which misstated his position on renewing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and called on SEIU to do the right thing and retract their false accusations. “Thousands of my constituents were subjected to these dishonest calls, crafted to mislead them about my stance on children’s and seniors’ health care,” said Reichert. “SEIU’s automated calls falsely claimed to thousands of my constituents that I ‘sided with tobacco companies’ and opposed ‘strengthening Medicare for seniors’ and ‘health care for children.’ Nothing could be further from the truth. “The fact is I do support expanding children’s health care and co-sponsored an amendment and a bill that do just that. I look forward to voting soon in the House on legislation that is nearly identical to the measures I sponsored. “Further, as someone who has lost loved ones to diseases associated with smoking, I take great offense at the outright falsehood that I sided with the tobacco industry. The bill I co-sponsored mirrors a bipartisan Senate compromise that uses increased taxes on cigarettes to pay for an expansion of SCHIP. How can an organization be so brazenly misleading? “The blatantly deceitful claim that I oppose strengthening Medicare is especially, and purposefully, shameful. The unfortunate reality is the House bill that SEIU itself supports would slash Medicare health coverage for 133,000 seniors in Washington State, including 14,200 in my district, and cut billions of dollars from seniors’ nursing home care, dialysis services, and home health benefits. The measure I supported provides for children and protects our seniors without needlessly forcing a choice between providing health care for these two vulnerable populations. “As someone who grew up in a union home and has been a union member myself, I am saddened to see these tactics. I call on the SEIU, a respected national organization, to apologize for and retract these false statements. They should follow the example set by the organization American Family Voices (AFV), which last year also ran a false and misleading phone slam campaign about my position on stem cell research, but later retracted their accusations. “SEIU should call every one of the people who received this false phone call and set the record straight. However, I realize that is unlikely to happen, so I will settle for an apology along the lines of the one I received from AFV last year. The people of the 8 th District deserve to know the truth about SCHIP and Medicare.”
04.09.2008	Washington , D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded passage of the Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2007, H.R. 3096, which prohibits U.S. non-humanitarian assistance to Vietnam unless the president certifies that Vietnam is meeting several requirements with regard to its record on human rights. “I’m pleased Congress is showing its support for the people suffering in Southeast Asia,” said Reichert. “ Vietnam is one of the largest and fastest growing nations in Southeast Asia with the U.S. as its principal investor and trading partner. As partners in trade, we have a responsibility to proactively address the political and religious suppression of the Vietnamese. HR 3096 sends a clear message to Hanoi that their human rights violations remain a serious concern of the U.S.” These requirements include: * Progress is made toward releasing all political prisoners; * Substantial steps are taken toward respecting the right to freedom of religion; * Vietnamese nationals are allowed free and open access to U.S. refugee programs; * Improvements are made in respecting the human rights of members of all ethnic minorities; and, * There is no government complicity in human trafficking. (The bill grants the president the authority to waive this prohibition.) Despite improving relations with the United States and a flourishing economy, Vietnam has struggled to improve its record on human rights. According to the State Department’s 2006 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, Vietnam’s human-rights record remains unsatisfactory. The government continues to exert its control over the press and the internet, deny individuals the right to fair trials, prohibit independent human-rights organizations, and abuse religious freedoms. Additionally, significant concerns remain with trafficking in women and children.
04.09.2008	Washington , D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today his introduction of legislation to keep the government open while Congress debates federal spending priorities. Reichert’s bill, the Preventing Government Shutdown Act, H.R.3508, enables essential government services to continue should Congress and the President fail to reach agreement on the 13 annual federal spending bills or a continuing resolution to keep the government funded. There are only nine legislative days left in the fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2007. “There are critical government services and functions that must remain open as Congress continues the debate on responsible spending,” said Reichert. “Let’s have a debate about spending, but not at the expense of important people and programs, such as veterans, children’s health care, and intelligence funding. “Budgets are about priorities. There are areas I believe we should increase funding, and areas I believe we should cut funding. But this is a different world than 1995 when the government last shut down, pre-9/11. We now have critical homeland security interests and we are at war. We can’t allow a shutdown of programs while a political, partisan fight ensues over federal spending. “It is legitimate to have policy differences and it is legitimate for the president to exercise his Constitutional right of veto when he disagrees and I support his efforts to curtail runaway spending. But let’s have that policy discussion without a highly-politicized government shutdown at the expense of our national security, veterans’ benefits, and others.”
04.09.2008	Washington , D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) spoke out today following his earlier statement regarding the ruling by the European Union Court of First Instance against the appeal of Microsoft, which found Microsoft guilty of monopoly abuse: “It is unbelievable and unacceptable that the Court of First Instance today upheld the European Commission’s (EC) decision and penalties against Microsoft. The decision and penalties are not only in stark contrast with the resolution reached by the by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding these same issues in 2002, but flies in the face of the basic premise of American law: protecting consumers. The EC seems to be intently focused on only protecting competitors from competition. “Today’s decision is not just about Microsoft. It sends a signal to high-tech companies around the world, and especially in the U.S., that they had better not become too successful or they will be subjected to the EC’s random standards of fairness, competition, and reasonable market share. Many other American technology companies are in line at the EC for this same unjust treatment. Again, I would ask successful companies that do business in Europe: Have you built this new European tax on American innovation into your business model? “The decision is also relevant to the American justice system. I hope DOJ hears the alarm bell going off right now – if not I intend to make sure they do. I hope they realize that this European court has ignored DOJ’s own findings and that this represents an urgent call to action to avoid this kind of outcome in the future for U.S. businesses. Our own government owes its loyalty to those corporations who have already gone through lawsuits and negotiated settlements with them regarding these issues. “Microsoft’s economic impact as a single, successful company is amplified many times over by the opportunities that its business and products have provided businesses of all sizes worldwide. Around the world, companies use Microsoft products and reap the rewards of better efficiency and productivity. And around the world, software businesses are formed and grow on the basis of the software products they have designed to work on the Windows platform. “Again, I believe that this ruling sets a dangerous precedent that says Europe is closed for business to those companies who invest the capital and resources necessary to lead a market. It sets a dangerous precedent for not only other high-tech companies, but any company that wishes to do business in Europe. It’s my hope that in Congress and across the U.S., we fight for justice on behalf of Microsoft and other innovative and forward-thinking corporations in America.”
04.09.2008	Mercer Island , WA – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced two significant victories in the fight against methamphetamine (meth) today that will impact both King County and the State of Washington. First, Reichert participated in the Washington Anti-Meth Campaign kick-off with John Walters, Director for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and Congressman Rick Larsen. The campaign announced that ads are expected to run through March 2008. Secondly, Reichert made public today that on September 14, the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) will announce a $450,000 grant for King County to fight meth. "Five years ago, I organized and hosted the first Washington State Meth Summit which brought local officials together to commit to eradicating meth from our communities," said Reichert, former Sheriff of King County Washington. "We formed meth action teams that are still in place today, who that continue to fight the effects of meth on crime, the environment, and public health. I'm proud of the progress our state has made since that summit. But the battle isn’t over. “The news today that King County and the State of Washington will receive extra grants moneys to fight meth puts more tools in the toolbox for this vital effort. “The long-term effects of this drug were shown through the very ad campaign that was announced today. Meth is not only harmful to the user, but to all of those around them. It's imperative that we fight against it, and I'm pleased that the federal government is partnering with Washington State by creating an ad campaign and providing dollars." The Anti-Meth Campaign, coordinated through the ONDCP's National Youth Anti-Drug Campaign, includes advertising and public education outreach to raise awareness about the dangers of meth and provide information about availability of meth treatment. For more information on the Anti-Meth Campaign and to view advertising and other resources, visit https://www.methresources.gov. COPS Methamphetamine Initiative grants can be used to help communities combat the manufacture, use, and distribution of meth, and to collaborate with other entities in the prevention and treatment of meth abuse. Since 1995, COPS has invested $12.4 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring of more than 117,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, technical assistance, conferences and webcasts. To learn more about these grants, visit www.cops.usdoj.gov.
04.09.2008	Washington , D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is happy to announce that the Bellevue Fire Department has been awarded$412,199 by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG). “Improving the ability of first responders can only benefit our communities,” said Reichert, “This AFG award will undoubtedly increase the ability of the Bellevue Fire Department to react in the best way possible. Not only will the money help in pressure situations but also in training for whatever situation may arise.” The AFG awards aim to enhance the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public as well as that of their own personnel. Mario H. Treviño, the Chief of the Bellevue Fire Department, intends to utilize the grant monies in numerous ways. “These much-needed grant funds will allow us to update our training in structural collapse and technical rescue, and pay for protective gear used by Bellevue Firefighters every day,” said Treviño. “Whether we are responding to a residential fire, high-rise incident, medical emergency, or the next natural or human-caused disaster, the FIRES Grant will help us to be better prepared. We know, based on the recent disasters experienced around the country, that it can happen here, and we need to be ready when it does." DHS administers the AFG in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA). The purpose of the AFG program is to award grants directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service ( EMS) organizations. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, DHS awards grants to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program. The program provides approximately $485 million for competitive grants to fire departments and nonaffiliated EMS organizations.
04.09.2008	Washington , D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the announcement today by the U.S. Department of Transportation that the Interstate-5 corridor will receive a $15 million federal grant. The funds will be provided under the Interstate Maintenance Discretionary Program for infrastructure improvements to I-5 from the U.S. border with Canada to border with Mexico, through the States of Washington, Oregon, and California. “I’m glad to see another critical Washington corridor receive transportation dollars,” said Reichert. “Reducing congestion provides benefits for Washington commuters, allowing them more time at home with their families. Goods can also transfer more quickly to their destination, which is good for business and our economy.” The projects approved in the application offer the opportunity for congestion reduction and mobility improvements, with the Columbia River Bridge Crossing project between Oregon and Washington listed as one of the most important and significant of the proposed projects for the corridor. The Corridors of the Future competition is a component of the Department’s Congestion Reduction Initiative announced in May 2006. This program was designed to accelerate the development of multi-state, and possibly multi-use, transportation corridors to reduce congestion. A Corridor of the Future will receive accelerated review and conditional approval of experimental features under the Federal Highway Administration, expedited process for credit assistance, and priority consideration for tolling programs and a portion of the $66.2 million in FY07 discretionary funding.
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he is hosting his second Veterans’ Resource Fair in Auburn on Saturday, September 15, 2007, from 9 a.m. – noon. The event is open to all veterans, their families and other interested residents. The Veterans’ Fair is conducted to enroll more Washington State veterans in the VA healthcare system and in other benefits and services available to them. As Congressman Reichert’s first Veterans’ Resource Fair was organized, the format expanded to include all veterans’ service and benefit providers. After several months of planning and the combined efforts of many, over 350 veterans came together with more than 100 service providers representing 47 organizations in Bellevue on March 31, 2007. Because of its resounding success, Reichert is again bringing organizations together to benefit veterans’ living in and around the Auburn area. WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), all interested veterans and their families, and representatives from the following organizations: Department of Education Higher Education Coordinating Board Harborstone Credit Union Small Business Administration Department of Labor SCORE - (SBA) King County Veteran's Program U.S. Army - Puget Sound Association United Services Organization Madigan Army Medical Center Tri-West Healthcare Alliance Hire a Hero King County Housing Authority U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development The Northwest Veteran Tahoma National Cemetery Social Security Administration Marine for Life Vietnam Veterans of America U.S. Department Of Agriculture - Rural Development\ Veterans Affairs - Fisher House U.S. Air Force Enlisted Accessions Recruiter Veterans Affairs - Benefits Madigan Tri-Care Veterans Affairs – Vocational Rehab/Employment Green River College - Vet's retraining program National Association of Black Veterans Patriots Pride Operation Homefront Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs Washington National Guard Vet's Edge Tacoma Vet Center Military Officers Association Gold Star Wives Military Order of Purple Heart United States Department of Agriculture Government Services Administration Fort Lewis - Reflection Park King County Veterans Coalition WHAT: An interactive fair for veterans and their families to discover and discuss benefits available to them through over 50 participating organizations ranging from health care services to financial assistance. WHEN: Saturday, September 15, 2007, 9 a.m. – noon WHERE: Grace Community Church 1320 Auburn Way South Auburn , Washington 98002
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) has announced that the U.S. Department of Justice recently awarded the Washington State Patrol $764,028 to further the use and effectiveness of DNA technology. Congressman Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County, fully appreciates what the grant will mean to the Washington State Patrol. “I know from my own career in law enforcement what improved technology can do for a department such as the Washington State Patrol,” said Reichert. “Increased DNA capabilities will help clear case backlog and more quickly bring the appropriate type of justice to criminals and, consequently, solace to victims.” Since the 1980s, DNA testing has emerged as a major tool in solving violent crime. Since that time, as the technology has grown, more and more trained scientists are utilizing their talents to solve previously unsolvable crimes. "The Washington State Patrol deeply appreciates the award of this grant which will fund laboratory equipment and staff in the state Crime Laboratory,” explained Bob Maki, the Budget and Fiscal Services Administrator of the Patrol. “The grant funding will be used to increase analytical capability, train new forensic scientists, and add casework automation tools which will help solve pending DNA cases and ultimately result in a reduction in the state's DNA case backlog. The grant program will provide a great benefit to the state of Washington criminal justice community and victim families." The Crime Laboratory Division of the Washington State Patrol operates four full-service crime laboratories in Seattle, Tacoma, Marysville and Spokane, while operating three limited-service labs in Kelso, Kennewick and Tumwater.
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement on the passing of former Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn: “Today, I join my colleagues, friends and the State of Washington in mourning the loss of Jennifer Dunn, my predecessor as U.S. Representative to the Eighth District and my friend. I am shocked and saddened by the news. My condolences go out to her family – her husband, Keith, her children, Bryant, Reagan and Angus, their wives, and the grandchildren who meant so much to her. “When Jennifer asked me to run for the seat she was leaving, I was honored to follow such a fine lady and superb Member of Congress. “I have always said I can only hope to fill Jennifer’s shoes in Congress and I could not have asked for a better example than Jennifer Dunn. Jennifer was a true friend and mentor who was well-respected not only in the Eighth District, but all across the State of Washington, in Congress and nationally. When I came to the House of Representatives, it was obvious that Jennifer Dunn’s reputation preceded her. Everyone spoke of her integrity and their respect for her, and I found myself explaining not that I was Dave Reichert, but that I was hoping to be the new Jennifer Dunn. Jennifer was a dear friend, one you could always look to for encouragement and who I know genuinely cared about the people she served and that she worked with. The State of Washington and the country is a poorer place without Jennifer Dunn, and she will be greatly missed.”
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that Mount Rainier was named eligible for FY 2008 Centennial Challenge funding in an announcement by the National Park Service (NPS). Two projects for Mount Rainier were selected, including $100,000 to install solar energy at Ohana, and $10,000 to install a drain and floor that will improve the historic Indian Bar, and provide visitors a safe, dry, backcountry shelter. “This is good news for Mount Rainier, the crown jewel of our national parks,” said Reichert. “ Mount Rainier National Park, especially after last years’ flooding, needs support to continue the efforts to restore and sustain the park and its infrastructure. I will continue to support this funding as it moves through Congress.” Centennial Challenge funding passed in the House appropriations bill in July, and is expected to be considered in the Senate in September. Congressman Reichert applauded the funding in the legislation, including: $1.8 million for Mount Rainier; $500,000 in critical funding for construction of a main sewer, replacement of a pump station, and relocation of vulnerable sections of pipeline near the east end of the I-90 floating bridge, in order to prevent contamination of Lake Washington; $2.512 billion for national parks, the first step in a 10-year program to upgrade the parks in time for the centennial anniversary of the National Park Service in 2016; and, $52 million for Energy Star, the program that evaluates and promotes products for energy efficiency to help Americans make informed energy choices. The EPA estimates the program saved Americans $12 billion in energy costs during 2005. Creation of a Centennial Challenge matching fund to make any of these proposals reality requires that this legislation pass through Congress. A team of NPS professionals evaluated Centennial Challenge proposals based on additional criteria, including how the proposals: contribute toward a centennial goal or specific performance goal; address a high-priority need; have a partner; improve the efficiency and effectiveness of park management; show imagination, innovation and collaboration; benefit multiple parks; and show results. To get involved in the clean-up at Mount Rainier, visit: https://www.nwstormrecoverycoalition.blogspot.com/.
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that the communities of Carnation, Maple Valley and Mercer Island, Washington, will receive more than $282,000 in federal funding as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Drug-Free Communities Support (DFC) Program. The Mercer IslandCommunities That Care Coalition will receive a grant of $83,059. DFC continuation grant awards for FY07 were awarded to the Snoqualmie Valley Community Network in Carnation ($100,000) and to the Greater Maple Valley Community Center ($99,995). “I have seen firsthand the effects drug and alcohol use can have on our children. Stopping and preventing drug use early will lead to healthier, more productive lives and better, safer communities,” said Reichert. “The Drug-Free Communities Program recognizes the great potential in our children’s future, and answers a call to prevent harmful drug use. This funding gives these community groups a valuable resource to provide additional services and to meet the needs of the citizens they serve.” Maple Valley Mayor Laure Iddings commented, “Nearly all of the civic and community groups in Maple Valley have spent more than 12 years collaborating and working together for our children. From the business community, to the school district, to the city, the police department, and the community center – we have all had a role in keeping our children safe and we are thrilled to receive the drug-free community grant award. We have accomplished a lot, but there is still so much more to do." The Mercer Island Communities That Care Coalition works to prevent and reduce drug and alcohol abuse among youth, and was one of only 90 new grant recipients across the country to receive this funding. The 90 new grantees were selected from 321 applicants through a competitive peer-review process. The DFC Program provides grants of up to $500,000 over five years to community organizations that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. To qualify for matching grants, all awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse prevention initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the DFC Program. - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the announcement today by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) that the State Route (SR) 520 Bridge replacement has been selected as a priority project to receive grant funding and additional federal support under an innovative grant program designed to improve traffic through multiple approaches. Projects related to the SR 520 Bridge replacement could receive an additional $127 million in federal funding through the USDOT. In addition, the grant could provide up to $11.6 million for improvements to Puget Sound ferry service. “The recent bridge tragedy reminded us of the vulnerabilities in our bridges and the consequences of ignoring them,” said Reichert. “I’m so pleased that the SR 520 Bridge has been selected for this program and I will continue to fight for additional resources. This is a great start as we work toward a solution for this bridge which carries approximately 155,000-160,000 commuters on it every day and is vital to our local economy. Through initiatives such as this, I’m looking at the end result: the families and commuters who travel across this bridge every day will benefit from increased safety and mobility, and that’s what’s important.” Reichert, joined by six other members of the Washington congressional delegation, signed a letter to Transportation Secretary Mary Peters on August 2, 2007, in support of the application for the Lake Washington Urban Partnership submitted by King County, The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), and the Puget Sound Regional Council. The Lake Washington Urban Partnership proposal focuses on resolving the challenges of congestion and infrastructure needs along SR 520, which is a vital transportation corridor. The proposal includes strategies for reducing congestion through expanded transit service, tolling, new transportation demand management and telecommuting programs with private sector partners. The proposal also includes the use of advanced technology to share travel information and real-time roadway management. More information on the SR 520 project can be found at the WSDOT web site, https://www.wsdot.wa.gov/projects/sr520bridge. - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment, attended a field hearing today in Aurora, Colorado, to examine the role federal, state and local information-sharing plays in security for the upcoming Democratic and Republican National Conventions. Both events have been declared National Special Security Events (NSSE). With this designation, the United States Secret Service becomes the lead law enforcement agency in developing the events’ security plans. “It’s unfortunate, but it’s a fact: these conventions, like other major events in this country, are attractive terrorist targets,” said Reichert. “Secret Service is the lead on security and it’s imperative that they have the necessary resources. As a long-time law enforcement veteran, I have firsthand knowledge of the importance of involving local law enforcement and the sharing of information between the various agencies at all levels. “When approaching something as large and important as a national convention, a cooperative partnership brings together national expertise with local knowledge. Real-time information-sharing will play a large role in these cooperative efforts by assisting in event management and helping to prepare for and prevent possible incidents.” Today’s hearing, “Information Sharing and National Special Security Events: Preparing for the 2008 Presidential Conventions,” included testimony from two panels of witnesses from federal, state and local law enforcement. Mr. Tim Koerner, the Assistant Director of the U.S Secret Service, and other local officials testified at the hearing. “Although the Secret Service is the federal agency with lead responsibility for the NSSE designated national political convention operational security matters, we view our role as that of coordinator and facilitator,” said Koerner. “We endeavor to create and implement a comprehensive security plan that focuses on prevention, but also ensures seamless and appropriate response and recovery preparedness…We look forward to continuing our collaborative relationship with our federal, state, and local law enforcement and public safety partners in Colorado and Minnesota to ensure our common goal of safe and secure conventions are achieved next summer.” - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), joined by state and local officials, other local leaders and constituents of the community, today announced his intention to introduce legislation adding to the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area and the designation of the Pratt River as Wild and Scenic. Building on Washington’s great tradition of working collectively with local stakeholders to ensure the future of Washington’s one-of-a-kind wild forests and rivers, Congressman Reichert is engaged in an effort to expand Wilderness areas near Alpine Lakes and protect important wildlife habitat, existing recreational opportunities and local economies that rely on both. “This historic area is truly unique in so many ways, and it’s important that we preserve it for our children and grandchildren,” said Reichert. “We are making this announcement today to share our intention, and to bring awareness to those interested in this area and the process. It is truly the wilderness backdrop of the Puget Sound region and provides a get-away for so many in this area and across the country. From the Olympic National Forest in the West to Palouse Falls in the East, and our most recent effort with Wild Sky, we have a long history of preserving our land for future generations to enjoy. I am so pleased to be working with a bipartisan, collaborative coalition so dedicated to this conservation effort, honoring the great effort of volunteers to restore this area, and bringing a better quality of life to all those who step foot in this great wilderness.” From extensive stakeholder inquiries involving recreation groups, conservationists, tribes, local lawmakers, nearby landowners and public agencies, the Congressman has identified a number of key areas that people would like to see included in the legislation, including the Pratt River Valley, and critical low-elevation lands near the Middle Fork and South Fork Snoqualmie Rivers. The Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress in 1976 and provides economic benefits to the surrounding towns as well as to the entire State of Washington. “Today, we join Congressman Reichert as he continues to demonstrate that spirit and celebration of the wilderness areas that are truly our common ground here in Washington” said King County Executive Ron Sims. “I hope this proposal and the participation of a broad range of local stakeholders is just the beginning of an expanded effort to protect these marvelous wild lands and add unprotected lands to the Alpine Lakes Wilderness.” One of the most visited wilderness areas in the country, the existing Alpine Lakes Wilderness is one of the closest blocks of wild forests to an urban center in the country, consisting of the Pratt, Middle Fork and South Fork Snoqualmie Valleys. The area provides diverse recreational opportunities including horseback riding, camping, and fishing. The Pratt River is a truly wild river which supports unique backcountry hiking, kayaking, and white water rafting that is unheard of so close to a major urban center. - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today voted in favor of the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, HR 3221. This legislation encourages innovations in renewable energy, seeking to decrease dependence on foreign energy sources. The legislation also incorporated language from separate legislation cosponsored by Reichert, H.R.589, which has a significant impact on the development and deployment of plug-in hybrid technology in the nation’s transportation sector. “This legislation takes important steps toward energy independence, which enhances our national security,” said Reichert. “When it comes to providing for our energy demands, there isn’t a one sure solution. We make progress by taking steps, such as we did today. The nation’s energy policy should provide both diversity and security, by investing in multiple sources, especially renewable sources and new technology such as plug-in hybrids. By not leaning on one source – oil – we make our country safer and healthier at the same time.” Provisions of the legislation provide long-term incentives spurring the production of electricity from renewable sources, including wind, solar, biomass, geothermal, river currents, ocean tides, landfill gas, and trash combustion resources. It provides incentives for manufacturers to build appliances that push the boundaries of efficiency, help working families afford fuel-efficient plug-in hybrid vehicles, and help businesses create energy-efficient workplaces. Through the bill, an Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Worker Training Program will be created to train a quality workforce for good “green” jobs -- such as solar panel manufacturers and green building construction workers -- that are created by federal renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives. Reichert has also supported other important pieces of cutting-edge energy legislation, including: · Sponsored H.R. 656, a bill to increase CAFE standards for vehicles and reduce gasoline consumption by at least 10%. · Voted in favor of H.R. 6: The CLEAN Energy Act: This bill will eliminate many subsidies and tax breaks for big oil companies and use that money in a new fund to promote clean, renewable energy. · Cosponsored and voted in favor of H.R. 632: H-Prize Act of 2007: This bill awards competitive cash prizes biennially to advance the research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of hydrogen energy technologies. Reichert also recently wrote an op-ed in The Hill newspaper regarding the importance of a renewable and diverse energy supply. You can read it by visiting: https://thehill.com/op-eds/anwr-not-answer-2007-06-27.html. - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today announced that U.S. House of Representatives passed a final conference report late Wednesday evening on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which contained the authorization for funding to help restore the Duwamish Green River system, sought by Reichert since 2005. “I was pleased to secure language in the bill that will help clean up the Duwamish-Green River system and improve the Elliot Bay Seawall,” said Reichert. “I hope the Senate will act quickly to pass similar legislation so we can get these important projects to the President for his signature.” The Duwamish/Green River Ecosystem Restoration Project was formulated in connection with the new Howard Hanson Dam (HHD) fish passage facility to ensure a coordinated restoration effort stretching from the headwaters of the Cascades to Elliott Bay on Puget Sound and provide habitat needed by the fish that will use the fish passage facility at the HHD. The Duwamish/Green River Ecosystem Restoration Project is a compilation of 45 restoration sites authorized in the Water Resource Development Act of 2000. The existing Elliott Bay Seawall has exceeded its design life and is susceptible to catastrophic failure, which could result in disastrous damage to public services and infrastructure and to the ecosystem. The funding is necessary to keep the Seawall replacement project on schedule so the work can occur concurrently with a major highway construction project, the replacement of the Alaskan Way Viaduct, to keep on pace with cost-share amounts. The Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA) authorizes nearly 700 projects under the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Many of the projects relate to dam and levee safety and river transportation. These projects have important environmental, safety and transportation implications. Corps projects prevent an estimated $20 billion in flood damages each year and this bill authorizes flood protection projects critical to the safety of a number of communities across the United States. The bill requires independent peer review of costly or controversial Corps projects to ensure agency decision-making is based on current scientific knowledge and economic principles. In addition, the bill authorizes the Corps to develop and implement a streamlined project review process to ensure all reviews, analyses, opinions, permits, licenses, and approvals are completed within a reasonable period of time. Authorization is the first step in a two-part process to secure federal funding. The formal process first consists of the enactment of an authorization measure that creates or continues an agency or program; and second, the enactment of appropriations to provide funds for the authorized agency or program. - # # # -
03.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today honored all first responders across the nation and those struggling through the tragedy in Minnesota during a mark-up in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Reichert introduced a resolution supporting “National First Responder Appreciation Day,” on July 31, and applauded the consideration by the committee, especially timely as those in Minnesota express their appreciation of the rapid, professional response of their “hometown heroes.” Reichert submitted the following statement: “I would like to thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member for considering this important resolution today. I would also like to thank Congressman Taylor for joining me in introducing this resolution. I know he can speak personally about the sacrifices and efforts first responders made in the response to Hurricane Katrina in his district. Simply put, House Resolution 592 affirms the goals and ideals of National First Responder Appreciation Day. Last night, we witnessed a tragic incident with the collapse of the Interstate 35 bridge in Minneapolis. All our hearts go out to the victims of this tragedy. Perhaps there is no better time to pass this resolution after witnessing the quick response of the first responders in Minnesota. There are currently 670,000 police officers, 1.1 million firefighters, and 891,000 medical technicians in the United States who risk their lives every day to make our communities safe. H.Res. 592 recognizes this sacrifice and honors these men and women. Thousands of Americans benefit from the service and sacrifice of our nation’s first responders. Most often, this sacrifice goes unnoticed. Over the last 10 years, 1,649 law enforcement officers and 1,500 firefighters have been killed in the line of duty protecting our freedom. Let me take a brief moment to read this resolution, “That the House of Representatives supports first responders in the United States in their efforts to prepare for and respond to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters, and affirms the goals and ideals of National First Responder Appreciation Day to honor and celebrate the contributions and sacrifices made by all first responders in the United States.” The Senate recently passed Senate Resolution 215, which designates September 25, 2007, as National First Responder Appreciation Day. This resolution simply affirms September 25, 2007, as a day of honor for these heroic men and women. Again, I would like to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for moving this resolution through the committee and I urge its adoption.” The Committee passed Reichert’s resolution unanimously. The legislation now moves to the full House of Representatives for consideration. - # # # -
03.28.2008	The House of Representatives’ Committee on Homeland Security approved legislation on Wednesday drafted by Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA) that addresses radicalization and homegrown terrorism. H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, unanimously passed the committee. “To truly combat an enemy, you must understand them and their motivations,” said Reichert, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence. “It is important that we develop a strategy to understand and combat violent radical beliefs before they take root in our country. The better we understand radicalization, the better we can prevent radical ideologies from spreading inside America and harming our citizens. The bill passed yesterday reflects upon the tremendous bipartisan effort in the subcommittee to address the growing issue of radicalization.” H.R. 1955 is primarily focused on establishing a National Commission on the Prevention of Violent Radicalization and Ideologically Based Violence. The purpose of this national commission would be to proactively get ahead of the radicalization problem within the United States. Recent terror plots discovered in Los Angeles, JFK Airport in New York and at Fort Dix in New Jersey were planned by radicalized individuals living inside the United States. Unfortunately, the National Intelligence Estimate released just two weeks ago indicates that this is a growing problem. The unclassified key findings state: “the radical and violent segment of the West’s Muslim population is expanding, including in the United States” and that there is “the possibility that others may become sufficiently radicalized that they will view the use of violence here as legitimate.” H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, was crafted jointly by both Ranking Member Reichert and Chairman Jane Harman (D-CA), to fight against homegrown terrorism. The bill also incorporated ideas included in Ranking Member Reichert’s bill H.R. 1695, The Preventing Radicalism by Exploring and Vetting its Emergence as a National Threat (PREVENT) Act. - # # # -
03.28.2008	U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted tonight to renew the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) while protecting Medicare benefits for seniors. Reichert, Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, opposed final passage of H.R. 3162 because it would cut Medicare benefits for more than 14,000 seniors in the Eighth Congressional District and 100,000 seniors across the State of Washington. “On this vote, I went with my conscience,” said Reichert. “It’s tough when you are forced to vote on something that makes you choose between children and seniors, when we should support both. I cosponsored an amendment that would have expanded SCHIP without cutting Medicare, mirroring a bipartisan Senate agreement supported by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA). Unfortunately, this measure was not even considered and we had to vote up or down on a bill that reauthorized SCHIP but did so by cutting Medicare for needy seniors. “I instead supported a motion that extends SCHIP and protects our seniors. “Voting yes would be the easy way out. But I vote with what I feel is right, especially in a case such as this: when the consequences are destructive, needlessly pitting children against preserving care for their grandparents. I believe there has to be a better way to renew this important program. I hope that as it moves to conference with the Senate, politics are put aside and we can work together toward a bill that renews SCHIP without cutting Medicare.” In addition to the $50 billion slash and burn of seniors’ Medicare plans, Reichert opposed final passage of H.R. 3162, because it would also cut the following Medicare programs over the next 10 years: - $6.5 billion from Medicare nursing home benefits; - $7.2 billion from seniors’ Medicare home health benefits; - $11.4 billion from acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, long term care hospitals; - $6 billion for seniors with home oxygen equipment; - $3.4 billion for dialysis facilities for seniors with kidney problems; - $2.9 billion for specialty hospitals; and, - $900 million by limiting seniors’ access to power wheelchairs. Congressman Reichert has championed work on health care in the 110th Congress and throughout his tenure in office. His most recent health care accomplishments include: Founding and Co-Chairing the bipartisan Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus; sponsoring and passing an amendment to bolster children’s emergency medical care (H.R. 3043), leading the fight in Congress to significantly increase funding for critical medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and serving in the Centrist Health Care Coalition, a congressional working group that meets monthly to explore and discuss a range of bipartisan, pragmatic ideas for reforming our health care system. - # # # -
03.04.2008	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) gave the following statement today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker: We must continue to open markets to encourage American companies to innovate and compete with their global counterparts. This grows our economy and creates jobs. “I am proud to represent a district in Washington State that integrates our nation’s leading technology innovators with a vibrant and highly productive small business community. Opening new global markets gives them incentives to improve their products, produce more goods, and employ more American workers. I have seen these jobs created in Washington State first-hand, with trade accounting for 1 out of every 3 jobs in the state of Washington. “Free trade agreements with Peru, Colombia, Panama, and South Korea are currently pending before Congress. We cannot allow these important agreements to languish in committee. I urge my colleagues in the Majority to stop the delays, pass these free trade agreements, and renew Trade Promotion Authority. Let’s advance the trade measures needed to grow our economy, create jobs, and improve our relations with global partners.” Congressman Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group, which unites Members of Congress to work for the passage of trade legislation that supports business, jobs, and economic growth.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded the unanimous passage of his bipartisan veterans’ legislation, which improves the government’s responsiveness to veterans when they return to the civilian workforce from active duty. The Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act, H.R. 1632, passed as part of a larger benefits package up for consideration on the House floor. “Our National Guard and Reservists continue to leave their jobs and put their lives on hold to defend our freedom,” said Reichert. ”These brave men and women encounter many problems returning to their civilian jobs. This bill will improve the government’s responsiveness to veterans facing these difficulties in returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. Last Congress, my legislation commissioned a study that asked: Why were they not getting their jobs back after putting their lives on the line? What were the challenges they faced returning to their work? The bill passed today implements the recommendations of that study. It helps us more effectively help our service members return to the rights, seniority, and benefits they put on hold to defend our freedom. It offers a simple fix that fulfills one of our many obligations to those who have sacrificed so much for our country. I’m pleased to see this veterans’ package move swiftly through the House and I hope the Senate will follow our lead. Reichert’s bill requires the agencies responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and the Office of Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. It also requires them to specifically track employment concerns caused by service-connected disabilities. His bill was approved by the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on July 17 and included today as part of this broadly-supported comprehensive veterans’ benefits measure. Along with Reichert’s bill, the Veterans’ Benefits Improvement Act, H.R. 1315, incorporated a measure improving adaptive housing assistance for disabled veterans. During the 109th Congress, Reichert sponsored legislation which passed the House commissioning a GAO study in the FY06 National Defense Authorization Act to examine how the thousands of Guardsmen and Reservists called up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan were transitioning back into the civilian workforce. This legislation, a result of the GAO study, would enact a simple, straightforward fix to the lack of cohesive information-sharing and reporting.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he has secured funding in the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations bill passed out of full committee yesterday. Funding included in the legislation will enhance the lives of troops on the ground by providing resources for their protection. Several companies in the Puget Sound Region received funding to provide products for the nation’s troops. “This is a win-win for our local active-duty military, veterans and their families,” said Reichert. “In addition, this announcement is great for our local economy. Right here in the Puget Sound area, we have multiple companies producing cutting-edge technologies that benefit our military’s efforts to help our soldiers stay safe. For example, SBRI performs necessary medical research to protect our troops from infectious diseases, and through this funding, can continue to protect our military.” $1 million for Cascade Designs Self-Inflating Sleep Pad The Marine Corps is seeking a solution for a sleep pad that provides better ground insulation, has increased durability, is lighter weight and is more compact than the current sleep pad. The sleep pad is a custom self-inflating sleep pad with insulation properties over three times greater than the Marines’ current sleep pad. When deflated, the MARPAD weighs just over two pounds and it is more compact and provides more thermal insulation than the Marine’s current sleep pad. Made of 100% a U.S.-sourced material, the pad is 95% puncture-resistant and provides two-way camouflage protection. $2 million for Seattle Biomedical Research Institute Malaria Program Vaccine Malaria is the #1 infectious disease threat to US military forces. Six of the last seven US troop deployments have been in malaria-endemic areas. Since 2001, SBRI has partnered with the U.S. Army to develop a vaccine that will prevent malaria infection. SBRI scientists have developed a novel vaccine strategy that confers 100% protection in animal models. With support from the Gates Foundation, SBRI is working with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research to complete necessary research to bring this vaccine forward to testing in humans within the next 12-15 months. This funding will assist in increasing worldwide capacity to test malaria vaccines and enhancing SBRI’s ability to study the immune responses in individuals who receive the vaccine or who are exposed to malaria. $1 million for Outdoor Research Cold Weather Hand Protection The proprietary design of this cold weather hand protection system will incorporate a no melt/no drip next-to-skin layer that offers enhanced protection from excessive burn damage while increasing the tactility, dexterity, moisture-transfer and comfort for soldiers. This product provides a solution for a hand-protection system that protects against cold weather conditions as well as severe burn damage caused when fabric melts and adheres to the skin after exposure to excessive heat and flames caused by battlefield explosives, burning fuel and electrical traps. $4.5 million for eMagin Ultra-High Resolution Display for Army Medicine The U. S. military ground forces depend on the ability to fight across all light levels, including at night and during obscured vision, such as smoke and fog. It has long been known that night vision is a significant U.S strategic advantage, allowing commanders the flexibility to prosecute the enemy at any time of day or night, while helping to ensure soldier safety during reconnaissance and battle. Using Organic Light Emitting Diode technology, the soldier will enjoy significantly improved system performance with a power draw that is up to an order of magnitude less, enabling a system that is more effective, is environmentally rugged over the full military range of temperatures, is significantly lighter and requires a smaller logistics “tail.” These types of systems have been shown in several fielded military products to greatly improve soldier survivability and effectiveness.
03.04.2008	Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) successfully fought for two amendments today as part of the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce and Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. This legislation passed the House 281-142. Reichert teamed up with Representative Bob Etheridge (D-NC) on the Etheridge-Reichert Amendment to bolster funding for the Department of Justice (DoJ) to supplement the Public Safety Officers Benefit Program. Reichert and Representative Chris Murphy (D-CT) offered the Reichert-Murphy Amendment to provide $5 million to fully fund the Court Training and Improvements Program, authorized early last year as a part of the Violence Against Women Act. “From my own personal life experience and my experience as a law enforcement officer, I know the far-reaching effects of this legislation and these important amendments,” said Reichert. “Domestic violence is a problem that must be addressed and one of the key ways to reduce its impact is to ensure that our justice system has the tools to deal with cases involving not only domestic violence, but also dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. “I didn’t have the opportunity to vote for the original Hometown Heroes Survivor Benefits Act. At the time this legislation was moving through the House and signed into law, I was the Sheriff of King County, Washington. I have seen the tears of these families affected by the federal government’s inaction and complacency – and more tears are flowing because of their struggle with the government bureaucracy. Our nation’s first responders and their families deserve to know that we truly stand behind them. I will continue to fight for implementation of the Hometown Heroes legislation and proper execution of the Public Safety Officers Benefit Program. This legislation is important legislation affecting the lives of victims of crime, law enforcement and their families.” Etheridge-Reichert Amendment The Etheridge-Reichert Amendment comes on the heels of a bicameral press conference pressing DoJ for answers on the lack of implementation of the Hometown Heroes Survivor Benefits Act of 2003, which corrected a technicality in how the Public Safety Officers Benefit was paid. Delay after delay has followed in the implementation of the law, while the families of the fallen languish, uncertain of their future and the outcome of their claim. It took the DoJ three years to produce a final rule on Hometown Heroes, and eight months after the release of that rule to make its’ first determinations. Of the 40 decisions in that first round, only two were approvals. Reichert met with DoJ last week regarding this issue and is working to find a solution to achieve swift and accurate implementation of the benefit. Funds would be used to hire additional benefits specialists, ombudsmen to help claimants navigate the process, additional hearing officers and attorneys to process appeals, and other staff as needed to handle the unresolved claims, and ensure the families or first responders receive help in applying and timely responses to their requests. Reichert-Murphy Amendment Nearly 25% of women report having been assaulted or raped by an intimate partner at some point in their lifetime. As a result, domestic violence cases are a large and rising portion of the caseload in state courts. However, many courts do not understand how their actions and timelines can affect victim and child safety. The Court Improvements Program supports training and technical assistance for court staff and judges to improve responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. It includes court enhancements, such as specialized dockets, dedicated calendars, and improved offender accountability mechanisms. In addition, it funds demonstration projects to address obstacles to court access, such as the need for professional interpreting services.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH), Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX), and nearly 20 other House Republicans today to propose legislation to help law enforcement officials fight crime and keep American communities safe. Reichert’s legislation, H.R. 3142, The Violent Crime Prevention and Enforcement Act of 2007, provides law enforcement with critical tools and resources for preventing and enforcing violent crime. “The legislation we introduced today is absolutely necessary,” said Reichert. “Our communities are crying out for stronger penalties for criminals who are walking the streets. Specifically, my bill strengthens current law to increase maximum penalties on gun crime and related offenses. It’s my hope that these pieces of legislation move quickly through the House.” Ranking Member Smith added, ““In the past six months, 39 law enforcement officers were killed in the line of duty, more than 7,500 murders were committed and 5,600 children were sexually solicited online. In a recent report, MySpace estimated there were nearly 30,000 sex offenders on its site. These numbers are troubling, and it is our duty to address these problems.” The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) Uniform Crime Report (UCR) crime statistics show that violent crime, murder, and robbery are all on the rise in both Seattle and Bellevue, Washington, from 2005 to 2006. Reichert also spoke on the House Floor Wednesday in support of funding levels for State and local law enforcement for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. Specifically, H.R. 3093 includes $725 million for the COPS program, which is $183 million more than funded last year. In addition, this legislation includes an $80 million increase for Byrne-Justice Assistance Grants. The crime legislation introduced today includes: Fighting Violent Crime: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA)—Violent Crime Prevention and Enforcement Act of 2007 Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA)—Death to Cop Killers Act of 2007 Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL)—State and Local Criminal Laboratory Enhancement Act of 2007 Protecting Children: Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA)—Sex Offender Internet Prohibition Act of 2007. Rep. Jon Porter (R-NV)—Protecting America’s Children Act of 2007 Rep. Marilyn Musgrave (R-CO)—Child Pornography Elimination Act of 2007 Preventing Terrorism and Promoting National Security: Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY)—Combating Terrorism Financing Act of 2007 Rep. Heather Wilson (R-NM)—Counter-Terrorism and National Security Act of 2007 Addressing Gang Violence: Rep. Ric Keller (R-FL)—Anti-Gang Enforcement Act of 2007 Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA)—Anti-Gang Task Force Act of 2007 Stopping Meth Traffickers: Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE)—Methamphetamine Kingpin Elimination Act of 2007 Guarding Against Criminal Aliens and Smugglers: Rep. Thelma Drake (R-VA)—Prohibition Against Criminal Alien Re-entry Act of 2007 Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN)—Alien Smuggling Criminal Enterprise Deterrence Act of 2007 Protecting Intellectual Property: Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH)—Intellectual Property Enhanced Criminal Enforcement Act of 2007
03.04.2008	U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Paul Ryan (R-WI), Chris Shays (R-CT) and others in a news conference today to unveil the “Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment�? to the 2007 reauthorization of the Farm Bill. The legislation is expected to come to the House floor this week. “The effects of the Farm Bill are not limited to farmers,�? said Reichert. “The Farm Bill is funded by and affects all taxpayers, and my constituents and groups across the State of Washington have an interest in what this amendment aims to achieve: boosting conservation programs, encouraging healthy foods, lowering federal spending and reducing our trade liability. Washington State is one of the most trade dependent states in the country – one in three jobs is linked to trade. We can’t continue business as usual – paying high amounts of government dollars to wealthy farmers and ignoring others. Through this amendment, we move forward towards an equitable balance.�? Reichert is an original cosponsor of FARM 21, introduced earlier this year, which brought comprehensive and innovative changes to the agriculture policy debate. In response to feedback on FARM 21 from members, constituents, and others, Reps. Kind and Flake developed the Fairness Amendment, which retains important aspects of the farm safety net that producers have come to know, but will reform them to work better and more equitably. Many of the proposals mirror the ideas advocated by the United States Department of Agriculture and others. The House Agriculture Committee passed a Farm Bill last week that unfortunately continues the status quo of paying billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded subsidies to a few very large and wealthy commodity producers in a handful of states. The “Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment�? would make common sense reforms to current commodity programs to make them more equitable and fiscally responsible. This amendment also reduces our trade liability, which is critically important to all sectors of the economy. The savings would then be reinvested in conservation programs that benefit farmers across the country and nutrition programs that promote healthier foods and fight obesity. This morning, a Washington Post editorial referred to farm subsidies as “federal giveaways that cost all Americans but benefit few…According to the Agriculture Department, in 2004 a third of agricultural payouts went to “very large�? operations that boasted average annual incomes above a quarter of a million dollars.�?
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded passage of the Fiscal Year 2008 House Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education (Labor HHS) appropriations bill, which included additional funds Reichert secured to provide emergency medical services for children. The annual spending bill passed the House with Reichert’s support, 276-140. This is the second successful passage of an amendment for Reichert during the last month. “Although children account for 30 million annual visits to the emergency room, many hospitals and EMS agencies are not adequately equipped to handle the unique health care needs of children,” said Reichert. “As the former Sheriff of King County and the Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, I understand the importance of tailoring emergency medical services to the specific needs of children, and I am pleased that my colleagues joined me in committing additional resources to this critical program.” The Reichert Amendment increases funding for the Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) program by $2.5 million. EMSC provides grants to states and medical institutions to incorporate pediatric care into emergency medical services. Grants have been used to train paramedics, purchase child-specific medical equipment for ambulances and emergency rooms, craft treatment guides for school nurses, test safety practices, and update and improve standards of emergency care for children. The EMSC program has been virtually level-funded and in need of additional resources for the past six years. Reichert is the founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus. Kathy Castor (D-FL) is the co-chairwoman. Barton Amendment Reichert also spoke on the House floor in support of an amendment by Joe Barton of Texas, which would have committed more resources to research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Reichert led a bipartisan effort with Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA) this spring to advocate for a long-term investment in the NIH. 184 Members joined Reichert in pushing for a 6.7% increase for medical research funding. Increases in Health and Education Funding Reichert also saluted the increases for critical health and education programs for which he has consistently advocated since arriving in Congress. Reichert commented, “I worked in the last Congress and in this one to secure an additional $7 billion for health care and education in the budget without raising taxes. I stood up against my own leadership in supporting the funding, because I am concerned about the choices we are making. Continued under-funding of critical health care and education programs jeopardizes our nation’s long-term growth.“
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today federal funding for Seattle and the State of Washington as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Homeland Security Grant Program. The Seattle metropolitan area received a 16.5% increase through the Urban Area Security Initiative Account (UASI), while overall, the State of Washington saw an overall decrease in the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) and the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP). “Under the risk-based Urban Area Security Initiative Account, the Seattle metropolitan area increase takes into account the risks we face having a major port, national landmarks, and being in close proximity to an international border,” said Reichert. “I’m pleased to see that increase. However, I am disappointed to see a cut in funding for Washington State out of the State Homeland Security Grant Program and the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program. “As the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment, I see the cut to the LETPP as a step backward for the state. These funds are used to help staff the Washington State Joint Analytical Center in Seattle and Regional Intelligence Groups across the state. Reducing funding for Washington State in this account could impact our ability to share information between federal, state, and local officials. “The State Homeland Security Grant Program is based on a combination of a minimum allocation, risk, and effectiveness. As the Department of Homeland Security defends the funding levels allocated to Washington State, I look forward to asking why we saw such a drastic decrease, especially given Washington State’s high effectiveness score. “During the last Congress, I cosponsored legislation that would ensure more risk-based allocation of Homeland Security dollars. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to act last Congress and so far this year this key 9/11 Recommendation has not been implemented into law." · $10,660,000 for the UASI Program, which focuses on the unique planning, equipment, training and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas. It assists them in building sustainable capacity to prevent, protect, respond and recover from acts of terrorism. · $7,170,000 for the Washington LETPP Program, which provides resources to law enforcement and public safety communities to support critical terrorism prevention activities, including: establishing /enhancing fusion centers, and collaborating with non-law enforcement partners, other government agencies and the private sector. · $10,030,000 for the Washington SHSGP Program, which supports the implementation of State Homeland Security Strategies to address the identified planning, equipment, training, and exercise needs to prevent, protect against, respond to and recover from acts of terrorism.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) was pleased to announce today the release of $19.2 million for the State of Washington to ensure that first responders have the ability to communicate during emergencies. The $19.2 million is released out of the Department of Commerce’s Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC) Grants, which are being distributed in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security. “The ability of first responders to communicate is the backbone of an effective response to an emergency,” said Reichert. “We witnessed in Hurricane Katrina the devastation that can result when responders lack adequate communications. The legislation I wrote and Congress passed last year addressed many of those issues and laid the foundation to address the remaining problems. The Department of Homeland Security is finally giving emergency communications the attention and focus it requires and is beginning to understand that it is crucial to effective emergency response. I’m also pleased that the State of Washington will receive this funding.” The funds, which are a one-time grant, come from funds generated from the digital television transition. Last year, as Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, Chairman Reichert was successful in getting his 21st Century Emergency Communications Act signed into law as part of a comprehensive reform of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The PSIC Grants that are being awarded today must be spent in accordance with the reforms of the Reichert bill, which ensure states have Statewide Interoperable Communication Plans in place before the funds are spent to ensure strategic use. After working with first responders, state and local officials as well as experts in the private sector across the nation, Congressman Reichert drafted the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act in order to address the emergency communications problems that the nation saw the tragic results of after Hurricane Katrina and 9/11. Reichert’s legislation was signed into law on October 4, 2006.
03.04.2008	The House Committee on Veterans Affairs unanimously approved bipartisan legislation today sponsored by Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Tim Walz (MN-01, D), as part of a larger benefits package for consideration on the House floor. The Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act, H.R. 1632, would improve the government’s responsiveness to difficulties veterans face when returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. “This is great news for members of the Guard and Reserve,” said Reichert, a veteran of the U.S. Air Force Reserves. “These veterans continue to leave their jobs and put their lives on hold to defend our freedom. They deserve the utmost respect – and a right to return to the life they led before their service. This legislation aims to serve that purpose: to ensure that members of the Guard and Reserve return to the rights, seniority and benefits of their civilian jobs so they may provide for themselves and for their families. I’m pleased that this legislation is moving forward to ensure that our veterans receive comprehensive support when returning to civilian work.” The bill requires the agencies responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. It also requires them to specifically track employment concerns caused by service-connected disabilities. “When my National Guard unit returned from serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, I witnessed small business owners, construction workers and business professionals alike experience difficulty returning to the civilian workforce,” said Walz, a retired Army National Guard Command Sgt. Major. “This legislation will address a broad spectrum of problems ranging from employer compliance with existing laws to service-connected disabilities that may affect a soldier’s ability to return to his or her place of employment. This legislation would provide soldiers with more efficient and effective reintegration services.” During the 109th Congress, Reichert initiated and passed language commissioning a GAO study in the FY06 National Defense Authorization Act to examine how the thousands of Guardsmen and Reservists called up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan were transitioning back into the civilian workforce. Walz, a 24-year veteran of the Army National Guard with a keen understanding of this issue, joined Reichert in introducing this legislation to implement many of the GAO’s recommendations. This legislation, a result of the GAO study, would enact a simple, straightforward fix to the lack of cohesive information-sharing and reporting. During today’s mark up, Members of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs offered the Reichert-Walz legislation their strong support and approved its inclusion in a comprehensive veterans’ benefits measure. This comprehensive bill, the Veterans’ Benefits Improvement Act of 2007 (H.R. 1315), is slated for consideration on the House floor before the August district work period.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) lauded the passage today of legislation focused on addressing the issues of radicalization and homegrown terrorism. The bill passed through the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment. In the National Intelligence Estimate released today, the Director of National Intelligence and the National Intelligence Council assess that “the spread of radical Internet sites, increasingly aggressive anti-US rhetoric and actions, and the growing number of radical, self-generating cells in Western countries indicate that the radical and violent segment of the West’s Muslim population is expanding, including in the United States. The arrest and prosecution by US law enforcement of a small number of violent Islamic extremists inside the United States—who are becoming more connected ideologically, virtually, and/or in a physical sense to the global extremist movement—points to the possibility that others may become sufficiently radicalized that they will view the use of violence here as legitimate.” H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007, was crafted jointly by both Ranking Member Reichert and Chairman Jane Harman (D-CA), to fight against homegrown terrorism. The bill also incorporated ideas included in Ranking Member Reichert’s bill H.R. 1695, The Preventing Radicalism by Exploring and Vetting its Emergence as a National Threat (PREVENT) Act. “Law enforcement and intelligence efforts are crucial to intercepting these threats as they develop,” said Reichert. “However, it’s in the best interest of our nation to develop and implement a strategy to combat violent radical beliefs before they take root. We must gain an understanding of why individuals become radicalized and what steps to take to prevent these alarming ideas from taking hold and spreading within the United States. “Given the recent pattern of terrorist activity that has been discovered in the UK, Canada, and the United States, the issue of homegrown terrorism has critical implications for the security of our nation,” continued Reichert. “Identifying the patterns of radicalization, where they exist, and isolating the contributing factors can help us mitigate problems before they begin – and that’s what this legislation does. Specifically, it creates a commission much like the 9/11 Commission, with the benefit of being proactive, rather than reactive. The Commission will examine and report upon the facts and causes of radicalization inside our own borders. We held hearings across the country, and the recent attacks reinforce the need for this legislation. I’m pleased to work with Chairman Harman side-by-side in crafting this important, bipartisan bill. The highest priority for homeland security must focus on preventing terrorist attacks to save lives. “Today’s legislation establishes a National Commission on the Prevention of Violent Radicalization and Ideologically Based Violence, incorporating aspects of H.R. 1695, the PREVENT Act, which I introduced earlier this year. The purpose of this national commission would be to proactively get ahead of the radicalization problem so that, as a nation, we can combat these radical ideologies before they become widespread within our borders. While there are other important aspects of this bill, such as learning from our international partners and ensuring that privacy and civil rights are protected, ensuring that we fully understand the nature of the threat is paramount.” Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Peter King also commented, "I commend Congressman Reichert for his hard work on this bill, as he wrote a great deal of the language himself. This is an important piece of legislation in our fight against homegrown terrorists, and I look forward to working with Dave to help this bill become law.”
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will be accepting employment-based green card applications through August 17, 2007, reversing a previous announcement. “I am pleased to announce that the administration is going to accept green cards for employees through August 17,” Reichert said. “This is very important both for tech firms like Microsoft, and for their employees and families. Many families suffer while waiting for a green card. Residents waiting for green cards often face hardships traveling out of the country for business or family emergencies. “On behalf of the affected companies and constituents in my district, I personally asked DHS to comply with the original Department of State Visa Bulletin and accept all eligible employment-based green card applications filed throughout the month of July. It is upsetting that the administration first told these employees one thing, then put their lives in turmoil by suddenly changing course simply because the bureaucracy couldn’t do its job. Because of today’s announcement, employers have a valuable opportunity to retain many of these employees who would otherwise leave. Retaining valuable and long-term employees is important for American companies to remain competitive in today’s global economy.” An announcement issued by the Department of State on June 12, 2007, made green card numbers immediately available, as of July 1, 2007, meaning companies would be able to file “adjustment of status” applications on behalf of many valuable employees. This allows the employees and their families to seek green cards and for the companies to retain these highly-skilled workers who are critical to continued business success. But on Monday, July 2, 2007, the State Department announced, “The sudden backlog reduction efforts by Citizenship and Immigration Services Offices during the past month have resulted in the use of almost 60,000 Employment numbers. As a result of this unexpected action it has been necessary to make immediate adjustments to several previously announced cut-off dates. All Citizenship and Immigration Services Offices have been notified of the following: Effective Monday July 2, 2007 there will be no further authorizations in response to requests for Employment-based preference cases.” Because DHS has oversight over U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Reichert called a senior official at DHS to urge them to reconsider this decision because of the impact on Microsoft employees and the local economy Western Washington.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today he had secured over $68 million in funding for the Eighth District and the State of Washington in the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Fiscal Year 2008 appropriations legislation passed out of full committee. “Many public safety programs for Washington state were provided for with this legislation,” said Reichert. “This particular appropriations bill is close to my heart. Public safety, domestic violence and many other issues addressed in this legislation are issues that I am passionate about and I am gratified to see them included in this bill. Schools will benefit from additional Resource Officers who provide vital service as they help develop safety and security policies, provide law enforcement in schools, and even teach classes focusing on crime prevention, substance abuse and gang resistance.” Reichert successfully secured funding for the following projects: · $350,000 for King County Sheriff’s Office – School Resource Officers: This project will provide for routine community policing responsibilities and additional School Resource Officers (SRO) for the King County SRO Program. · $250,000 for City of Bellevue Regional 911 Center: Funding will provide technology systems and other start up costs to create a regional emergency call and dispatch center for east King County. · $200,000 for Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs – DNA Stranger Rape Pilot Program: This project will develop a no suspect DNA pilot program that will rapidly change law enforcement’s utilization of no suspect casework. The program will direct all WA State law enforcement agencies to submit biological evidence for DNA testing within days of a stranger rape occurring. · $250,000 for Rainier Communications Commission – Public Safety Pilot: This funding will facilitate public safety pilot projects on a regional wireless broadband network to be installed across Pierce County. The network will provide wireless broadband capabilities to residents and businesses across the County, including 14 municipalities. More importantly, it will also create a regional backup communications network for public safety and emergency response. · $950,000 for Washington State Meth Initiative: This funding will train and equip additional law enforcement personnel to increase regional response capabilities and perform proactive investigations statewide. It will also allow for an expanded implementation of the meth strategy to additional counties and tribal jurisdictions · $66,825,000 for Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund: The PCSRF supports the conservation and recovery of Pacific salmon across the rivers, watersheds, and coastal areas they inhabit in Washington, Oregon, Alaska, Idaho and California. PCSRF was established by Congress in response to the listings of Pacific salmon and steelhead populations as endangered under the Endangered Species Act in the 1990s. Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives FY 2008 CJS appropriations, with expected passage next week in the House. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Reichert will continue to fight for the funding for these projects.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he had secured funding for four projects for the Eighth District in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) appropriations legislation passed out of full committee. “This funding gives precedence to important issues to those in the Eighth District – improving our roads, keeping people moving and keeping our kids safe,” said Reichert. “The end result of the transportation projects, especially the FAST Corridor improvements, will be directly felt by those struggling through traffic congestion and bad road conditions. The bill also prioritizes alternative energies through the King County Hybrid Bus Program and the safety of our kids through a new community center. I’m also pleased to announce funding for a new welcome center on the Chinook Scenic Byway for Mount Rainier, to welcome visitors to our area and promote the enjoyment and appreciation for one of our most precious natural treasure.” Reichert successfully obtained the following projects: $750,000 for the Enumclaw/Mt. Rainier Welcome Center: The Welcome Center is to be located on state route 410 at the western portal of the All American Road (known as the Chinook Scenic Byway) at the eastern boundary of the City of Enumclaw. The Welcome Center will enhance the visitor experience by providing a one-stop location for all of the necessary information regarding the area’s amenities. $500,000 for the FAST Corridor Grade Separations (Renton, Puyallup, Kent, and Auburn, WA): This project will eliminate delays at the tracks for vehicles waiting for trains and provide a more safe and seamless corridor for rail and freight. Funds will be divided equally along the corridor. $150,000 for the Bethel School District Community Center: To construct a community center and swimming pool in the fastest growing area in King and Pierce Counties. $300,000 for the King County Hybrid Bus Program: To keep up with the increase in demand for transit service, King County Metro will acquire 20 additional sixty-foot articulated buses. The new buses will use hybrid electric/diesel technology. King County Metro has had a positive experience with their current hybrid buses and is a strong supporter of their overall environmental benefits. Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives FY 2008 THUD appropriations, with expected passage next week in the House. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Reichert will continue to fight for the funding for these projects.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he obtained over $24.5 million in funding for the Eighth District. The money comes in the Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water (E&W) appropriations legislation that was passed out of full committee today. Included was an additional $750,000 for the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance that Reichert secured in the legislation. “I am thrilled by the progress of these important funds," Reichert said. "This boost for the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance bolsters their treatment programs, particularly for children suffering from cancer, which is one of my top priorities. The Mud Mountain Dam funds will continue our partnership to balance the Lake Tapps community and the critical salmon population that spawns there. And the Nearshore funding is something I am particularly proud of as we work together to protect the long-term health of Puget Sound in the face of growing development.” $750,000 for Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Proton Beam Therapy On Wednesday, the Alliance was also awarded $100,000 in the Fiscal Year 2008 House Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education (Labor HHS) Appropriations Bill, obtained by Reichert and several members of the delegation, bringing the total to $850,000. Reichert was the only member of the Washington Delegation to request the additional $750,000 in funding through the E&W legislation. $1.6 million for Duwamish/Green Ecosystem Restoration The Duwamish/Green Ecosystem Restoration Program, initiated in a 1995 feasibility study, is the culmination of ten years of collaborative efforts by the Corps, the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe, King County, all 15 cities in the Duwamish/Green Watershed, the City of Tacoma, and numerous public agency and non-governmental resource groups. This effort, specifically authorized under the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 will provide not only critical environmental improvements, including assisting in the recovery of Endangered Species Act federally-listed Chinook salmon, but is integral to the economic advancement and well being of the region. $11.5 million for Mud Mountain Dam With the necessary funding, the Army Corps of Engineers estimates that it will begin construction of the new diversion dam for Mud Mountain in 2008 and plans to have the project completed within two years. The diversion dam and trap and haul facilities enable threatened Puget Sound Chinook salmon to be passed to spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam. Additionally, Reichert successfully obtained the following funding: · $600,000 for Puget Sound Nearshore Habitat Restoration · $500,000 for King County Biogas and Nutrient Reduction Project · $1.33 million for Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters · $8.299 million for Columbia River Channel Deepening Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives FY 2008 E&W appropriations, with expected passage next week in the House. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Reichert will continue to fight for the funding for these projects.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured over $1.2 million in critical funding for health and education projects in Washington’s Eighth District, as part of the Fiscal Year 2008 House Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education (Labor HHS) Appropriations Bill, which passed out of full committee today. “I'm glad to see funding for the Eighth District in two big priorities of mine – health and education,” said Reichert. “Last Congress I offered the Reichert/Castle amendment to restore $7 billion in cuts to education and health care, but the funding never reached the House Floor. This time, we celebrate positive steps forward. These projects make critical investments, such as the BSITE project at Bellevue Community College, which will create computer security curriculum and provide educational pathways for current and future workers to fulfill the needs of area employers. It also provides support for many infants, children and young people in our area, investing in their future and ultimately in the strength of our nation.” Reichert announced the following projects included in the legislation: $150,000 for Pediatric Interim Care Center - Drug-Exposed Infants: Outreach and Education Program (Kent, WA) $200,000 for College Success Foundation - Leadership 1000 Scholarship Program (Issaquah, WA) $300,000 for Bellevue Community College - Building Safer Information Technology Environments (BSITE) (Bellevue, WA) $250,000 for City of Bellevue – Bellevue Arts Museum (Bellevue, WA) $100,000 for Pierce College District - Homeland Security Skill Panel Workshops Program (Tacoma, WA) $100,000 for Northwest Kidney Center – Puget Sound Medical Surge Capacity Initiative (Sea-Tac, WA) $100,000 for Seattle Cancer Care Alliance – Proton Beam Therapy Center (Seattle, WA) Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives FY 2008 Labor HHS appropriations, with expected passage next week in the House. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Reichert will continue to fight for the funding for these projects.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined in a press conference today with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Congressman Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Congressman Spencer Bachus (R-AL), the International Association of Fire Chiefs and families of fallen firefighters to call for full implementation of the Hometown Heroes Survivors’ Benefits Act of 2003. This legislation, signed into law in December of 2003, reflects the opinion of a bipartisan majority of Congress that the families of firefighters, law enforcement officers and other first responders should be cared for when a public safety officer dies of a heart attack or stroke in the line of duty. “The families of first responders make sacrifices as their loved ones put their lives on the line and make life-and-death decisions every day,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County, Washington. “In 2003, Congress attempted to expand survivor benefits for family members to receive the care and respect they deserve, yet today, less than three percent of applicants have received any payment. It’s unacceptable to ask these families to relive the horror of a death as they struggle to break through bureaucratic red tape; to continually make phone calls and send letters to simply receive a benefit – one that could never replace what they have lost. I will continue this fight to push for the families of fallen public safety officers to be justly compensated.” Over thirty years ago, Congress created the Public Safety Officer Benefit Program to provide the families of public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty with a one-time financial benefit, allowing first responders the peace of mind that their families will receive support in the event of their death. The Hometown Heroes Survivors’ Benefits Act corrected a technicality in the law that made it difficult for families of those lost in the line of duty by a heart attack or stroke to claim the benefit. Despite the clear intent of Congress, the Department of Justice continues to deny or delay a vast majority of these claims.
03.04.2008	Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) today released the following statement after the British police defused a car bomb in London: “The local police in London have defused what could have been a catastrophic event,” said Reichert. ”The details are still unfolding, with many questions still unanswered. At this time, there’s been no direct link made to any threats within the United States, but it is an unfortunate reminder that these are dangerous times. The United States must remain on alert and watch closely to protect our citizens. We must give the intelligence community the tools necessary to do their job – to prevent these attacks.” The House recently voted on a Reichert Amendment to restore a cut to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Analysis and Operations Account, which funds most of the intelligence and analysis functions within DHS. Prior to the Reichert Amendment, H.R. 2638, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, cut the account $8 million dollars below FY07 levels. “This event underlines the importance of local police training and information-sharing with law enforcement on all levels. Terrorists are without humanity – and constantly search for new ways to attack,” Reichert continued. “The highest priority for homeland security must focus on preventing terrorist attacks to save lives.” Reichert is the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment.
03.04.2008	The House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity unanimously approved bipartisan legislation today sponsored by Congressmen Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Tim Walz (MN-01, D), advancing the bill to the full committee. The Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act, H.R. 1632, would improve the government’s responsiveness to difficulties veterans face when returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. “Members of the Guard and Reserve continue to leave their jobs and put their lives on hold to defend our freedom,” said Reichert, a veteran of the U.S. Air Force Reserves. “Those veterans returning from service deserve the utmost respect – and a right to return to the life they led before their service. This legislation aims to serve that purpose: to ensure that members of the Guard and Reserve return to the rights, seniority and benefits of their civilian jobs so they may provide for themselves and for their families. I’m pleased that this legislation is moving forward to ensure that our veterans receive comprehensive support when returning to civilian work.” Reichert’s bill requires the agencies responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. It also requires them to specifically track employment concerns caused by service-connected disabilities. “Congressman Dave Reichert and I introduced H.R. 1632, the Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act to enact a small but critical, technical fix that will improve the way the federal government deals with National Guard and Reserve reemployment complaints,” said Walz. “My colleague Congressman Reichert realized the crucial role of the National Guard and Reserves early on in the Iraq War and I’d like to thank him for taking the lead on ensuring a smooth reintegration of these distinguished veterans.” The measure will now go before the full committee on Veterans’ Affairs. After passage, it is then sent to the floor to be voted on by the entire House. Reichert expects the measure to be voted on in the full House before the August district work period. For more on H.R. 1632, visit: https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d110:hr1632:.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today in favor of H.R. 2643, the Interior and the Environment Appropriations Act, which increases federal spending for national parks and includes critical funding for Mt. Rainier. The bill passed the House by a vote of 272-155. “Mt. Rainier and our national parks need this critical attention from Congress, and I’m pleased to see such support,” said Reichert. “The recent storms caused the gates to Mt. Rainier to close for the first time in more than 26 years, and it was gratifying to see so many outstanding citizen groups turn out to help. But the federal government has to do its part too, and this funding is a much-needed boost to continue the efforts to restore and sustain the park and its infrastructure.” Congressman Reichert applauded other important aspects of the bill, including: $1.8 million for Mt. Rainier; $500,000 in critical funding for construction of a main sewer, replacement of a pump station, and relocation of vulnerable sections of pipeline near Mercer Island, in order to prevent contamination of Lake Washington; $2.512 billion for national parks, the first step in a 10-year program to upgrade the parks in time for the centennial anniversary of the National Park Service in 2016; and, $52 million for Energy Star, the program that evaluates and promotes products for energy efficiency to help Americans make informed energy choices. The EPA estimates the program saved Americans $12 billion in energy costs during 2005. Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives Interior, Environment and Related Agencies for FY 2008 appropriations. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both chambers. Rep. Reichert will continue to fight for funds for these project and others.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted last night in favor of State and Foreign Operations Appropriations legislation, H.R. 2764, which passed the House 241-178. The annual spending measure funds our nation’s efforts to foster diplomacy and improve the quality of life for some of the world’s most vulnerable peoples. “This legislation makes important investments in areas such as Darfur, global health efforts on AIDS and protecting Israel,” said Reichert. “The United States has a moral obligation to lead the world, be it ending genocide, or lending aid to other countries. We must continue to protect our ally Israel, and this legislation continues our commitment to them as they fight against terror.” Reichert continued, "I am disappointed, however, that this legislation spent $34.243 billion, increasing levels for State and Foreign Operations by 9.5% over last year, and yet did not include diplomatic funding for Iraq, which goes directly against recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. There can be no victory in Iraq and no stability in the Middle East unless the United States provides diplomatic leadership. I hope these funds will be restored in conference." The legislation includes $100 million for the African Union peacekeeping mission in Darfur, and also additional funding for UN peacekeeping, which will help fund the deployment of a bigger, stronger hybrid United Nations. About $210 million would be humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in the war-ravaged area of Darfur. It also provides $2.4 billion in military aid to Israel, $40 million to help Israel resettle refugees and $5 billion for world-wide anti-AIDS efforts. In 2006, Congressman Reichert received an “A” for his efforts to stop the genocide in Darfur, from the Genocide Intervention Network’s Darfur scorecard and DarfurScores.org calling on Congress to stop the genocide.
03.04.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured $500,000 in critical funding for Mercer Island construction of a main sewer, replacement of a pump station, and relocation of vulnerable sections of pipeline in order to prevent contamination of Lake Washington. “This funding will save important resources in and around Lake Washington,” Reichert said. “Not only does it benefit residents directly by maintaining water quality in the event of a catastrophic event like the 2001 Nisqually Earthquake, but it will also prevent damage to salmon and Chinook spawning areas, and the surrounding wildlife and landscape. It’s critical that we support important projects such as these that are so important to maintaining our region’s fragile ecosystem.” The funding will be used to replace approximately 1 ½ miles of sewer main and side-sewer laterals located in Lake Washington along the north and northwest shoreline of Mercer Island near the I-90 bridge. The project includes replacement of one pump station and modification of one pump station, extension and connection of side sewer laterals to the new main and environmental mitigation. The sewer main is over 50 years old and has reached the end of its useful life. The line is within the Seattle Fault Zone and when it breaks will spill raw sewage into critical Salmon spawning areas of Lake Washington. The project will replace this vulnerable pipeline with a new line in deeper water away from Salmon spawning areas. This project is supported by the Department of Ecology for the State of Washington, King County, and Members of the Washington State Senate and House. Procedurally, this is the first step. These funds have been included in the U.S. House of Representatives Interior, Environment and Related Agencies for FY 2008 appropriations, with expected passage next week in the House. The Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Rep. Reichert will continue to fight for funds for this project and others.
03.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) testified today before the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on his bipartisan legislation to improve the government’s responsiveness to difficulties veterans face when returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. The Subcommittee expects to mark up Reichert’s Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act, H.R. 1632, on June 29, advancing the measure a step closer to being passed into law. “Early in 2005, I heard that Guardsmen and Reservists in my district and across the country were facing difficulties in returning to their civilian jobs,” Reichert said. “After commissioning a government study of the problem, I learned that the agencies responsible for addressing veterans’ job needs were not adequately communicating the difficulties these service members reported with each other or with Congress. This is completely unacceptable. I acted on this information by introducing this bill to require the agencies to coordinate the tracking, sharing, and reporting of all reemployment concerns they receive from veterans. This will enable us to better serve those who put their civilian jobs on hold to defend our freedom.” Reichert continued, “The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have presented our Armed Forces with many new challenges, some expected and some unforeseen. We must provide comprehensive support for all of our service members’ needs, and ensuring that our veterans can easily return to civilian work after their tours of duty is one of them. As someone who hired members of the Guard and Reserve in the King County Sheriff’s Office, I know what kind of contribution they can make to our country both in protecting us and when they return.” Reichert’s bill requires the agencies responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. It also requires them to specifically track employment concerns caused by service-connected disabilities. Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN), a veteran of the Army National Guard, is the lead cosponsor of Reichert’s bipartisan bill. Rep. Reichert served in the U.S. Air Force Reserves from 1971 to 1976. Members “mark up" a measure by offering, debating, and voting on amendments to it during a meeting by a subcommittee or committee. After a subcommittee marks up a measure it gets reported to the full committee for a vote, then sent to the floor to be voted on by the entire House.
03.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the actions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Tuesday on the formation of the FEMA National Advisory Council, created by Reichert’s comprehensive legislation, the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006. “I’m pleased to see tangible action come from the bipartisan legislation we passed last year. It is fulfilling to see this move from an idea in a House Subcommittee, to the creation of a National Advisory Council, compiling comprehensive knowledge and experience on how to best prepare for and respond to disasters,” said Reichert. “As the Chairman of the Emergency Preparedness Subcommittee during the 109th Congress, I held hearings on this issue and listened to countless hours of testimony. The American people asked for a fix, and this is a great achievement and important step forward for improved emergency preparedness and response.” FEMA Administrator David Paulison announced yesterday the proposed membership of the National Advisory Council. The council is being created to advise the Administrator of FEMA on all aspects of preparedness and emergency management in an effort to ensure close coordination with its partners across the country. Members are appointed by the Administrator and represent a geographic and significant cross-section of officials from emergency management and law enforcement. Reichert continued, "In addition, I’m proud to announce that John Didion, the Sheriff of Pacific County, and Phillip Reitinger with Microsoft Corporation have been appointed to the council. This is great news for the state and gives Washington a seat at the table as FEMA works to provide coordinated, effective and timely emergency response for Washington and for our nation."
03.03.2008	U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Joe Crowley (D-NY), today formally introduced bipartisan legislation in the House that provides a new direction for federal farm policy. “This bill invests in critical areas such as renewable energy, the environment, conservation, and the effort to combat hunger while simultaneously saving taxpayer dollars,” said Reichert. “This legislation is bold, but makes sensible reforms to federal farm policies, transitioning from our current outdated system of subsidies to modern, entrepreneurial policies for our farmers and our nation. I’m pleased to work with my colleagues on this bipartisan and beneficial legislation.” The Food & Agriculture Risk Management for the 21st Century Act (FARM 21) would transition from the current system of farm subsidies – counter-cyclical, loan deficiency, income loss, and direct payments – to a more cost-effective and responsive system of farmer-held “risk management accounts” (RMAs) and revenue insurance tools. FARM 21 reforms would result in an estimated cost-savings of $20 billion over five years and $55 billion over ten years, which is a substantial amount over the current existing farm subsidies system. The tremendous cost savings from these reforms would allow investment in other critical fiscal and farm bill priorities including: · Improving the Environment: Spending on conservation programs would be increased by $6 billion over five years, including the expansion of the EQIP program to more than $2 billion annually and programs to protect millions of wetland, farm, and ranch acres from sprawl. · Producing Energy on Farms: Renewable energy programs and renewable energy research would be increased by at least $1 billion over five years, including sufficient funds to provide at least $5 billion in loan guarantees for renewable energy development on farms, ranches, and forest lands. · Reducing the National Debt: This legislation proposes to reduce the deficit by $5 billion between 2008 and 2012 and by more than $20 billion over ten years. · Expanding Rural Development Programs: Farmers would be able to withdraw funds from their accounts to invest in rural enterprises that boost farm income. In addition, this legislation would increase rural development spending by $700 million over five years. · Promoting Healthy Food Choices: Funding for programs to link farmers with local schools, to establish farmers markets, to provide healthy snacks at thousands of schools, and to promote more consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables would be expanded by $400 million over five years. · Investing in Domestic and International Anti-Hunger Programs: Under this proposal, spending on anti-hunger programs, primarily the Food Stamp Program, would be increased by $5 billion over five years. In addition, the McGovern-Dole program would receive increased funding of $500 million over five years, providing for donations of agricultural products for school feeding and nutrition projects in low-income countries. FARM 21 would also make U.S. federal farm policies trade-compliant. The current federal farm policy system facilitates a cycle in which farmers produce for the government paycheck, resulting in overproduction and depressed prices, and benefits million-dollar farms, while hurting the average family farm. Additionally, U.S. cotton subsidies have been ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization (WTO). FARM 21 is supported by the following organizations: Citizens Against Government Waste, National Taxpayers Union, Bread for the World, OxFam, Environmental Defense, Taxpayers for Common Sense, Environmental Working Group, and the Grocery Manufacturers Association. Newspapers across the nation have also endorsed FARM 21. Excerpts from the editorials are attached. Editorial Support for FARM 21 | Two Pager on FARM 21
03.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, successfully offered an amendment today to the House Homeland Security Appropriations Act, H.R. 2638, to increase intelligence funding, which would have suffered a severe cut. The amendment passed in a bipartisan vote of 218-205. “My amendment strikes a balance between prevention, response and recovery,” said Reichert. “The proposed legislation included a dramatic cut to intelligence while significantly increasing response and recovery programs. While each of these is an important facet of homeland security, I think we can all agree that it is better to prevent a terrorist attack then be forced to respond to one.” The Reichert Amendment restored a cut to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Analysis and Operations Account, which funds most of the intelligence and analysis functions within DHS. Prior to the Reichert Amendment, H.R. 2638 cut the account $8 million dollars below FY07 levels, and is $23 million below the President’s Budget request. “At a time when the nation was recently spared from potential terror attacks due to law enforcement and intelligence activity, this legislation proposed to cut those same programs,” Reichert continued. “Homegrown terrorism has been thrust into the spotlight with two suspected domestic terror plots in the last month: a potential attack on our armed forces at Fort Dix in New Jersey and a plot to destroy JFK Airport and the surrounding area in New York. The threat of radicalized terrorism has become real. Terrorists are constantly searching for new ways to recruit our own citizens against us. The highest priorities for homeland security must focus on preventing terrorist attacks and saving American lives.”
03.03.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will present the Congressional Award Gold Medal to Christopher Pyke of Graham at the Cascade Christian High School Baccalaureate Ceremony (811 21st St. SE, Puyallup) at 7:00 PM, Friday, June 1, 2007. The award is for the good work Pyke has done for his community and for meeting the goals he set for his personal development. Media are welcome to attend. “I am very pleased to present Christopher Pyke with the Congressional Award Gold Medal,” Reichert said. “Recipients of this award do not win it, they earn it. That is why the recipients represent the best of our country – young leaders who understand that leadership starts first with service to others and bettering yourself. This award also recognizes that Christopher has a wonderful support system around him of family, friends, community and educators who have helped him develop and succeed. I applaud Christopher and everyone involved with achieving this prestigious award.” The Congressional Award was created by the Congressional Award Act in 1979 to recognize achievement and service in young people. The program is about challenge and offers young people the opportunity to set personally challenging goals, then achieve them. In doing so they serve their communities and learn about responsibility, citizenship and the ability to plan and organize. There are six levels of Award: Bronze, Silver and Gold Certificates; and Bronze, Silver and Gold Medals. Each level is cumulative and time spent on one award is carried over to the next. Congressman Reichert will present Pyke with the highest of these awards, the Gold Medal which requires a minimum of 800 hours and 24 months spent on the achievement. To achieve an award, each participant sets and achieves challenging goals in four areas: Voluntary Public Service; Personal Development; Physical Fitness; and Expedition/Exploration. To earn his award Pyke completed over 500 hours of Voluntary Public Service doing humanitarian work, volunteering at nursing homes, homeless shelters and with outreach programs throughout his community. He worked towards his Personal Development goal of expanding his artistic abilities by taking three multi-media courses and now has talents that range from models to acrylics to computer animation and graphic arts. Pyke also set a Physical Fitness goal of hiking the Wonderland Trail before he turned 17 years old. He accomplished this by training on 5 and 10 mile hikes. For the Exploration portion, Pyke planned and executed a 15-day trip to Germany to experience a different culture.
03.03.2008	Tuesday, May 15, Rep. Dave Reichert voted to increase funding levels for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, adding 50,000 more police officers on the streets. The House passed H.R. 1700, the COPS Improvement Act by a vote of 381-34. This bill passed the House during this week, which marks the National Police Week of 2007, in which our nation honor the men and women who serve to protect our communities and neighborhoods and pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in the line of duty. “I am pleased this bill passed the House during National Police Week in which we honor the men and women who serve to protect our communities” said Congressman Reichert. “I spent 33 years of my life in law enforcement. I served as a patrol officer, jail guard, detective, lieutenant, and then as the sheriff of King County. The COPS program is essential to me and the 870,000 sworn law enforcement officers throughout this nation. As a sheriff I witnessed how the COPS program provided much needed funding, allowing King County to hire additional cops and purchase new law enforcement technology. I feel a sense of duty as a congressman and as a former cop to advocate for COPS and will continue to do so during my time in Congress.” The COPS Improvement Act of 2007 will provide the COPS program with an additional $1.5 billion for the next five years. In addition this bill will improve the COPS program by: Rather than creating a single grant program, the bill provides for three pots of money: $600 million a year for hiring and redeployment of officers to perform intelligence, anti-terror, or homeland security duties $350 million a year for technology $200 million a year for community based prosecution programs The bill will also authorize funding or a recruiting program for military veterans to pursue law enforcement as a career. In 2005, Congressman Reichert offered amendments to restore funding cuts to the COPS and Byrne-JAG programs suggested by the administration and Congress. Reichert also pledged “to educate the leaders of the Appropriations process as to the importance of the COPS program, and [to] actively and aggressively look for ways to remedy the situation” of continued cuts to the program. Honoring that pledge, Reichert has worked over the last 3 years to inform his colleagues of the value of both programs. The passage of the COPS Improvement Act of 2007 marks a successful campaign by Chairman Reichert.
03.03.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border, Maritime, and Global Counter Terrorism, made two significant announcements today regarding the safety of local ports. First, he welcomed news that port security funds he has advocated for to protect Washington State Ports will be awarded. The Port of Tacoma will receive $11.6 million, an increase of over $9 million from the FY 2007 Port Security Grant Program. In addition, the Port of Seattle will receive $5.25 million. The Ferry system in Washington State will receive an additional $2.4 million. “I am very pleased to announce that our local ports have received more than $16 in critical security funding,” Reichert said. “Keeping our local ports safe is a top priority of mine because not only do we need to protect our infrastructure and economy, but the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma are so close to densely populated cities it is critical that we continue to work to make them safe from attack.” Secondly, Reichert announced that tomorrow the Department of Homeland Security will formally announce that the Port of Tacoma was selected as a pilot center to screen for radiation threats. Specifically, this test center will focus on scanning cargo for radiation that moves directly from ship to rail. The Port of Tacoma is ideally positioned to test and develop scanning technology for rail-bound cargo that will benefit the entire maritime industry. “Securing this segment of the overall supply chain has proved challenging; it will become a larger issue as the Port of Tacoma grows and more cargo is shipped directly from ship to rail,” Reichert said. “I have met multiple times with members of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and officials at the Port of Tacoma on this security gap. I am hopeful this test center will bring about new technologies that can detect a threat before it has access to the rest of the nation.” The Intermodal Test Center was enacted into law as part of the SAFE Port Act last Congress. Congressman Reichert served on the conference committee negotiating the final version of the SAFE Port Act and helped keep this important provision in the bill.
03.03.2008	U.S. Representatives David Reichert (R-WA), Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Joe Crowley (D-NY) today announced legislation they will introduce in the House that provides a bold new direction for farm policy. The Food & Agriculture Risk Management for the 21st Century Act (FARM 21) will modernize the farm safety net, institute fiscally responsible reforms, and reallocate the savings to programs that will help more farmers and more regions of the country through resource conservation, better nutrition, and renewable energy development. Under this proposal, the current system of farm subsidies – counter-cyclical, loan deficiency, income loss, and direct payments – would gradually be transitioned to a more cost-effective and responsive system of farmer-held “risk management accounts” (RMAs) and revenue insurance tools. “Transitioning to farmer-held risk management accounts will help bring our farm programs into compliance with trade agreements and could jump start international negotiations that would open new markets to our farmers,” said Rep. Kind who serves on the House Committee on Ways and Means. “This legislation will provide a more effective safety net and a more sound agriculture policy for farmers, rural communities, and low-income Americans while improving our environment and reducing the deficit.” Farmers could use RMAs to weather the ups and downs, make investments, and plan for the future. The accounts would streamline what is currently a redundant revenue insurance system consisting of Title I farm subsidies and a federal insurance program that already covers 80 percent of subsidized acres plus additional billions in ad hoc disaster assistance. The accounts would cover the “shallow” losses that are not covered by crop and revenue insurance policies, with withdrawals being permitted when sales fall below 95% of a farmer’s five-year rolling average, which would help stabilize farm income and prevent the need for disaster payments. Accounts also would act like a pension. This legislation will not only benefit more farmers but will also be cost-effective. The reforms included in the legislation would create a farmer safety net that is estimated to cost nearly $20 billion less over five years and $55 billion less over ten years than simply extending the existing farm subsidies. “Not only does our federal farm policy hamper free trade, but it’s simply not fiscally sustainable,” said Rep. Flake. “Farm policy is badly in need of reform. This legislation is the first step in putting farm policy on a more trade-friendly and financially responsible path.” The tremendous cost savings from these reforms would allow investment in other critical fiscal and farm bill priorities including: debt relief, expanding rural development programs, conservation efforts, renewable energy development, promoting healthy food choices, and domestic and international anti-hunger programs. “Nutrition programs funded through the Farm Bill play a crucial role in urban areas in New York and across the country,” said Rep. Joe Crowley. “The farm bill currently provides virtually no support for efforts to provide Americans with healthier food choices, such as fruits and vegetables. These important reforms will free up dollars to expand nutrition initiatives and access to healthy foods, and to reduce rates of obesity – lowering health care costs for everyone.” Specifically, under FARM 21, renewable energy programs and renewable energy research increase by at least $1 billion over five years, including sufficient funds to provide at least $5 billion in loan guarantees for renewable energy development on farms, ranches, and forest lands. “I am pleased to work with my colleagues to introduce a bill that will change the direction of our nation’s farm policy and reallocate funds to priorities like renewable energy,” said Rep. Dave Reichert. “Rising energy costs impact all Americans, especially farmers. Farmers are eager to help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and could provide a significant share of America’s fuel needs with appropriate investments. Although the ethanol mandates have spurred private investment in corn ethanol refineries, relatively little investment is being made in other bio-fuels, especially cellulosic ethanol.” “This bill provides millions more annually in research funding to help convert the abundant supply of crop waste, grass and wood waste into a renewable energy source and a new commodity for our farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners – all while reducing the overall cost of the farm bill in a fiscally responsible way. We must move to clean, American made energy and this bill makes a strong investment in agriculture programs that will help us do that,” Rep. Reichert added.
03.03.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) applauded the unanimous passage Tuesday of the House Resolution in support of the goals and ideals of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week (H.Res 119). A member of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Reichert is an original cosponsor of the resolution. “Crime knows no geographic, demographic or political boundaries,” Reichert said. “It touches all of our constituents in every community. National Crime Victim’s Rights Week is a time for us all to reflect on how important it is for us to place the rights of victims ahead of all other concerns when dealing with a crime. It is also a time to pay tribute to the victims’ service providers, volunteers, law enforcement and community organizations that provide critical support and assistance to victims and survivors in their time of need.” “The 2007 Victims’ Rights Week theme is �?Victims Rights: Every Victim. Every Time.’ That is a perfect theme because that is how these dedicated people approach their jobs. And that is what victims of crime should expect from their community – that every victim be supported, every time. I encourage every American to help raise awareness of the rights of victims of crime and to take this week to reflect on what we as a community can do to improve our assistance to victims.” In 1980, President Reagan first called for a national observance to recognize and honor the millions of crime victims and survivors in America. Victims’ Rights Week has since been proclaimed annually with ceremonies and observances in Washington D.C. and in thousands of communities throughout our nation.
03.03.2008	The Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007, cosponsored by U.S. Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08), passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. The legislation would designate 106,577 acres of national forest as wilderness to permanently protect 106,000 acres of prime terrain in Washington's north Cascades. “I was pleased to work with others in our state’s delegation to co-sponsor and pass a bill with such broad support in Washington State and in Congress,” Congressman Reichert said. “The Wild Sky’s special lowland forests and watersheds represent the essence of the Northwest, and are an important component of our state’s outdoor recreational economy as well. This bill represents an ideal balance of protecting our environment, while looking out for the business and community interests that rely on this land for their recreation and livelihood. I hope it will be used as a model for future legislation.” The Wild Sky area offers hikers, backpackers, paddlers, anglers and other outdoor enthusiasts breathtaking views, outstanding whitewater, majestic old growth and towering mountains. The protection of Wild Sky is also important to the economy. Active outdoor recreation contributes $730 billion to the U.S. economy every year. According to a recent nationwide report released by the Outdoor Industry Foundation, outdoor recreation is a key component of the economy of Washington State. Active outdoor recreation generates $8.5 billion annually in retail sales in Washington State. Active recreation also supports 115,000 jobs in the state and contributes $1.3 billion in state and federal tax revenue. In total, active outdoor recreation contributes $11.6 billion to Washington’s economy.
03.03.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert was honored today by the Association of Washington Business (AWB) and the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) for his leadership in strengthening small manufacturers, creating jobs, and making health care more affordable. He was presented with AWB’s Cornerstone and NAM’s Manufacturing Legislative Excellence awards at Weyerhaeuser’s Bellevue facility. “Small businesses are the engine of our robust economy,” said Congressman Reichert. “That’s why I have led the fight in Congress to provide job-creating tax incentives for small businesses and manufacturers, to make health care more affordable for their workers, and to protect their products from overseas counterfeiting.” Reichert championed a tax incentive that enables manufacturers to write-off $125,000 in new equipment and machinery purchases, helping these companies invest in themselves and create and retain jobs. He also helped enact stringent penalties for foreign competitors who counterfeit the labels and packaging of U.S. manufacturers, and he has supported innovative health care proposals to make health insurance more affordable for small firms. Reichert continued, “I thank the Association of Washington Business and the National Association of Manufacturers for these honors and for their leadership on behalf of Washington workers, manufacturers, and entrepreneurs.” “Congressman Reichert has a proven record of support for Washington’s small businesses,” said Don Brunell, President of the Association of Washington Business. “He has helped advance the effort to maintain U.S. leadership in the global economy, expand economic growth, and assist the private sector in creating jobs and raising living standards.” “Congressman Reichert deserves praise for his continued efforts to provide Washington businesses with needed incentives and relief from onerous and duplicative regulations,” said Bruce Beckett, Executive Committee Member of Association of Washington Business. AWB is the oldest business organization in the state. Its membership of 6,200 businesses employs over 600,000 Washington residents. 75 percent are businesses with fewer than 50 employees. Over the years, AWB has become one of the most effective and respected grassroots forces in the state. The National Association of Manufacturers is the nation’s largest industrial trade association, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Its mission is to enhance the competitiveness of manufacturers by shaping a legislative and regulatory environment conducive to U.S. economic growth and to increase understanding among policymakers, the media and the general public about the vital role of manufacturing to America’s economic future and living standards.
03.03.2008	Eighth District veterans and local representatives from various veterans service organizations hailed Rep. Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) first veterans services and benefits fair as a resounding success. Over 350 veterans from Washington’s Eighth District attended and were able to receive information and expert advice from representatives from 47 organizations that provide services and benefits to local veterans. At the request of the veterans and the service providers, Congressman Reichert will be expanding the veterans fair and holding similar events across Washington State. “The veterans fair was a very positive occasion and an opportunity for a lot of networking among the various agencies that are providing services to vets as well as a great opportunity for vets to learn about the benefits available and to sign up,�? Dr. Les Burger, Director of Veterans Integrated Service Network 20 (VISN 20) said. VISN 20 includes 8 major health care facilities across Washington State. Dr. Burger continued, “Personally, I was taken by a young Marine veteran who came to the fair who was to that point, unaware of the various benefits available to him. The young man ended up sitting down at the U.S. VA Department’s table and got enrolled right there. From my perspective, that made the whole thing worthwhile. This fair was a good opportunity and we need to do more of these fairs and we need to figure out how to get younger vets to participate. We saw a lot of older veterans at the fair; reaching out to the younger vets should be a priority.�? “Today over 350 veterans came together with more than 100 service providers representing 47 organizations,�? Congressman Reichert said. “One of the main benefits of today’s event was getting all of these individuals together under the same roof. It was valuable for the veterans to speak with the providers, but it was also important for the service providers to meet each other. We’ve been working on putting this together for more than a year and seeing how it all came together today makes it all worthwhile. We were asked today to expand this fair and replicate in other parts of the state and I am happy to do that for Washington State’s veterans.�? The idea for the veterans fair was conceived last year to enroll more Washington State veterans in the VA healthcare system in an effort to bring more federal healthcare dollars to the entire state. As Congressman Reichert’s veterans fair was organized, the format expanded to include all veterans service and benefit providers. After several months of planning and the combined efforts of many, the event was held Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at Crossroads Bible Church in Bellevue. The following organizations participated: American Legion Army Emp. Readiness Compass Center Employer Support G/R Gold Star Wives HECB HUD King County Veterans Consortium Marines for Life Military of Purple Heart Military Officers Association Military Widows Association National Association of Black Veterans Navy League Paralyzed Vets Patriots Pride Retired Officers Association Social Security Administration Tahoma Nat'l Cemetery Tri-West US Department of Labor US Department of Health and Human Services US Department of Veterans Affairs USO VA Fisher House Vet's Edge VFW WA National Guard WA Veteran Affairs WorkSource
03.03.2008	Today Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted against the budget resolution that would impose the largest tax increase in American history – nearly $400 billion over the next five years. Congressman Reichert led the effort to support an alternative budget that would enact no less than an inflationary increase in discretionary spending for critical health and education programs, while preserving the tax relief that families, workers, and seniors rely upon. “This dangerous budget proposal would raise taxes on those who can least afford it,” Congressman Reichert said. “Not only would it raise the income tax rate for the lowest wage earners among us, but it would also eliminate the state sales tax deduction that benefits every single Washington resident.” Reichert continued, “Last year, I worked with like-minded Members to successfully fight for a budget that extended tax relief while increasing spending for health and education by $7 billion. This year, I led the effort in the House to gain support for a budget that would increase funding for these vital safety net programs by no less than an inflationary increase, while still protecting the hard-working men and women of the 8th District from devastating tax increases. That kind of responsible balancing of our fiscal priorities was not present in this budget.” The budget includes real tax hikes on average people: Elderly Couple with $40,000 in Income This elderly couple’s tax bill would rise by 156% in 2011 – from $583 to $1,489. Family of Four with $60,000 in Earnings This family’s income tax bill would rise from $3,030 to $4,893 in 2011 – that’s an increase of more than $1,850, or 61%. Single Parent with Two Children and $30,000 in Earnings This single parent would see her tax benefits decline 67% in 2011. With tax relief, this single parent qualifies to get back $2,414. With the Democrats’ tax hike, this single parent would only get back $799. Effects of specific tax hikes: Raising the 10% Tax Rate Bracket to 15% More than 5 million individuals and families who previously owed no taxes would become subject to the individual income tax in 2011 if Democrats are successful in raising the 10% tax rate bracket to 15%, and reducing or eliminating other low-income tax benefits. Eliminating Marriage Penalty Relief 23 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $466 in 2011. Cutting the Child Tax Credit in Half 31 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $859 in 2011. EVERY working American would be affected by tax hike: 83 million women would see their taxes rise, on average, by $2,068. 48 million married couples would incur average tax increases of $2,899. Taxes would increase, on average, by $2,181 for 42 million families with children. 12 million single women with children would see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,082. 17 million elderly individuals would incur average tax increases of $2,270. Taxes would rise, on average, by $3,960 for 26 million small business owners.
03.03.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was gratified when two important provisions he has advocated were added to the Department of Homeland Security’s authorization bill when it was marked up in the full Committee on Homeland Security today. “The majority of this year’s Department of Homeland Security authorization bill is similar to language Republicans drafted last year,” Congressman Dave Reichert said. “I am proud of the work done by the Committee on Homeland Security and pleased we could once again move a bi-partisan authorization bill. In addressing the original bill, we added amendments where it was necessary to ensure the bill responds to the homeland security needs we have identified. The first amendment I was able to add will help us to figure out how we can be better partners with the private sector owners of critical infrastructure in this country and the second increases the number and quality of intelligence analysts. Both are widely acknowledged homeland security requirements and their addition to the bill makes it stronger.” "Dave Reichert continues to be an important voice for common-sense homeland security policy, and I greatly appreciate his efforts on these important issues," Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security Peter King said. The first amendment strengthens the ability of DHS to attract and hire experienced intelligence analysts. While DHS is sending intelligence analysts to support fusion centers, it is important to ensure that DHS continues to have robust intelligence support at headquarters. Allowing retired intelligence analysts to return to the workforce and not lose their retirement pay will help DHS maintain and build a strong analytic core. It would also help state and local officials who could use the extra support from DHS. The second amendment Reichert successfully added to the bill today is an important study on creating further incentives for the private sector to share critical information. It is well known that the private sector owns 85% of America’s critical infrastructure. But because these assets are privately held, industry fears disclosure of their commercial secrets or vulnerabilities should shared information become public. There is also the ever-present threat of lawsuit. Congress created the category of information called “Protected Critical Infrastructure Information” to help alleviate some of these concerns, but many companies are still wary because they believe sharing will negatively affect their business. This study would look at is the kinds of incentives that might cause the private sector to see information sharing as a win- win situation. The study would specifically look at using tax policy to help accomplish this through tax incentives, but would also look at other means. It’s important that we understand how we can ensure that industry remains a partner in our homeland security information sharing efforts.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is losing a valued member of his staff, but he’s happy to see her continue on to such a worthy pursuit. Kimberly Cadena, Congressman Reichert’s press secretary, is leaving his office to become the press secretary for the ONE Campaign. The ONE Campaign is an effort by Americans to rally Americans of all beliefs and every walk of life to fight the emergency of global AIDS and extreme poverty. “Kimberly made a huge and positive impact throughout our organization with her consummate professionalism, sharp intelligence and unequaled work ethic,” Congressman Reichert said. “Those qualities will serve ONE very well. I am sorry to lose her but am gratified that she will be joining an effort that is so close to my own heart. I know Kimberly will make a real difference at ONE just as she did here.” “Congressman Reichert’s advocacy for these issues made this new opportunity a natural transition for me, and one that he was incredibly supportive of,” Cadena said. “I’m sad to leave this office and our team, but the opportunity to increase my professional focus on these issues was one I could not pass up. ONE’s grassroots efforts in Washington State will be particularly important because of how effective Washington’s activists are in influencing their elected officials and candidates. I hope that those who aren’t familiar with ONE will visit the website and read about our efforts and that those who support the fight to end extreme poverty and the spread of AIDS will help us to convince our elected officials to increase our efforts in these areas.” The ONE Campaign derives its name from the belief that allocating an additional one percent of the U.S. budget toward providing basic needs like health, education, clean water and food would transform the futures and hopes of an entire generation in the world's poorest countries. ONE also calls for debt cancellation, trade reform and anti–corruption measures in a comprehensive package to help Africa and the poorest nations beat AIDS and extreme poverty. Congressman Reichert is a current co-sponsor of the Global Poverty Act. In the 109th Congress, Congressman Reichert co-sponsored the Assistance for Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act, which became law. The bill requires USAID to coordinate, advise and monitor the provision of assistance for orphans and vulnerable children. Congressman Reichert also supported: · H.Con.Res. 172, affirming the commitment and leadership of the United States to improve the lives of the world's 1.3 billion people living in extreme poverty and conditions of misery. · the Stop Tuberculosis (TB) Now Act of 2006, which would require the President to furnish assistance for tuberculosis (TB) prevention, treatment, and elimination. · Congressman Reichert also supported an amendment to the FY07 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill to increase funding for International Disaster and Famine Assistance for Sudan by $50 million and increase funding for the Department of State Global HIV/AIDS Initiative by $50 million.
02.28.2008	Today the U.S. Chamber of Commerce endorsed The Personalized Health Information Act introduced by Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08, R) and Rep. Patrick Kennedy (RI-01, D). As the world’s largest business federation representing more than three million employers of every size, sector and region, the Chamber joins leaders from all corners of the healthcare industry in their enthusiastic support of The Personalized Health Information Act. The legislation would be an important step in creating a public-private partnership to promote the use of secure, transportable and consumer-controlled personal health records (PHRs) and patient communication services for Americans. In their endorsement, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce thanked Reps. Reichert and Kennedy for their leadership on the issue and commended them for: “… introducing H.R. 1368, the “Personalized Health Act of 2007.�? H.R. 1368 seeks to develop personal health records, which will improve the efficiency and quality of the nation’s healthcare system while reducing costs. This legislation is an important step in laying the foundation for modern health information technology. “The Institute of Medicine has estimated that 45,000 to 98,000 deaths occur each year due to medical errors. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, modern information technology has the ability to produce cost savings of approximately $140 billion per year by reducing duplicative care, lowering health care administration costs and avoiding errors in our delivery system. The United States’ health system can be vastly improved with the implementation of standardized, interoperable information technology, and personal health records are key components to an effective and efficient system. Furthermore, H.R. 1368 will offer an important financial incentive to facilitate the physicians’ adoption of these tools.�? Don Brunell, President of the Association of Washington Business, added, “As Washington’s state chamber of commerce and manufacturing association, we have been working hard to improve communications between patients, insurers and medical providers. Reducing medical errors not only saves money, but pain and trauma. It is important for physicians to know what medications people are taking and what allergies people have before treating them, especially in emergency situations. Congressman Reichert’s bill is an important step for patient safety and medical cost containment and we are happy to support it.�? “I’m delighted by the Chamber’s support for our bill,�? Congressman Dave Reichert said. “Personal health records can enable healthcare providers to get a more comprehensive view of patients’ health histories. As a result, the care and treatment that patients receive will be more accurate and less costly. Lowering costs while improving the quality of care are common sense benefits that appeal to the thousands of small businesses represented by the Chamber. The Chamber’s support of our bill, and particularly that of their broad and active constituency, will be very helpful as Patrick and I work to bring this bill to the floor for a full vote by the House.�? Reichert and Kennedy’s bill would require that the Secretary of Health and Human Services create a personal health record incentive program and trust fund to expedite the use of personal health records by Medicare beneficiaries and other patients and their health care providers. PHRs can give patients access to and control over their personal health data while ensuring that providers have all of the information they need at the point of care if the patient consents. The bill is viewed by industry experts as a necessary first step toward the adoption of a nationwide electronic medical records system.
02.28.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) introduced bi-partisan legislation to improve the government’s responsiveness to difficulties veterans face when returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. The Improving Veterans’ Reemployment Act, HR 1632, provides simple solutions to problems that members of the Guard and Reserve encounter when seeking reemployment upon their return from places such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Rep. Tim Walz (MN-01, D) is the original co-sponsor. “In the last year, I heard about too many members of the National Guard that were coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan and experiencing problems attempting to return to the workforce,” Congressman Dave Reichert said. “As a result, I offered an amendment, which passed and was signed into law, that commissioned a GAO (Government Accountability Office) report on the employment problems Guardsmen and Reservists face upon their return from active duty, so that we’d know how best to fix them. I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan follow-up legislation that implements the report’s recommendations to help our veterans more easily return to the civilian jobs that they put on hold to defend our freedom.” The bill requires all four departments responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and the Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. Currently, Labor and Defense do not categorize the data they receive in a uniform way, which not only reduces their responsiveness to veterans’ reemployment needs, but it also prevents them from providing Congress with an accurate picture of the specific difficulties our returning troops face in being rehired. Improving the reporting of veterans’ job data will help both Congress and these agencies better respond to our veterans and ease their transition home. Rep. Reichert served in the U.S. Air Force Reserves from 1971 to 1976. Rep. Walz spent 24 years in the Army National Guard, rising to the rank of Command Sergeant Major before he retired in the spring of 2005. Before retiring, Walz served overseas with his battalion in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Walz is the highest ranking enlisted soldier ever to serve in Congress. Why is this legislation needed? § We must do everything in our power to enhance the government’s responsiveness to the needs of our veterans, including helping them return to the civilian jobs they put on hold to defend our freedom. § More than 500,000 reservists have been mobilized since September 11, 2001, and nearly 25% of reservists returning from Iraq and Afghanistan have filed for disability benefits. Congress has an obligation to make the transition of every veteran back into the workforce as seamless as possible. § The Departments of Labor and Defense – tasked with tracking, reporting, and addressing veterans’ reemployment complaints – currently do not coordinate the sharing or tracking of this data with each other, compromising their ability to swiftly and effectively respond to veterans’ job needs. § This lack of coordination also prevents the departments from providing Congress with an accurate picture of the specific difficulties our returning troops face in being rehired, which inhibits efforts to better serve these veterans. A GAO study estimates that Congress is currently receiving only 20% of the full picture of veterans’ hiring difficulties. Provisions § Requires all four departments responsible for protecting veterans’ employment rights – the Departments of Defense, Labor, Justice, and the Special Counsel – to coordinate their sharing of and reporting on complaint data filed by veterans facing difficulties being rehired. Requires these departments to use uniform categories in tracking and reporting the data. § Requires the annual report to Congress to include aggregate data from all agencies. § Specifically requires the tracking and reporting of reemployment difficulties that are caused by service-connected disabilities. Legislative History § Congressman Reichert authored an amendment to the FY06 Defense Authorization (PL 109-163) that commissioned a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on the difficulties Guardsmen and Reservists faced in returning to the civilian workforce from active duty. § The GAO report (GAO-07-259) was delivered to Congress in January 2007. All of the recommendations for congressional action are included in H.R. 1632. The Departments of Labor, Defense, and Justice all concur with the recommendations included in the report. § Under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), employers are required to promptly reemploy eligible service members returning from active duty in the same or similar position as the one they left, and to provide them with the rights, seniority, and benefits they would have received were they continuously employed. Reservists can file formal and informal complaints through the DOD’s Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve or through the Department of Labor.
02.28.2008	Yesterday, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Rep. Don Young (AK) introduced H.R. 1334 to ensure that aging victims of the Exxon Valdez oil spill will have some security in their retirement. Almost 18 years after the Exxon Valdez was run aground by an inebriated captain that Exxon allowed to remain at the ship’s helm despite his drinking problem, Exxon continues its socially irresponsible behavior by refusing to pay court ordered damages to the oil spill’s victims. By refusing to pay billions of dollars in court ordered damages to the victims of the oil spill, Exxon has imperiled the retirement security of many. "When the Exxon Valdez crashed into Bligh Reef, it had a terrible impact on thousands of fishermen," Congressman Reichert said. "Because Exxon Mobil has repeatedly delayed court ordered payments to those affected by the worst environmental disaster in our nation’s history, many of those affected nearly 18 years ago are now facing retirement. I am pleased to work with Congressman Don Young to introduce a bill which will help the affected fishermen with their retirement plans. Exxon Mobil has delayed payment to those affected for far too long. This bill will help ensure that when Exxon finally honors their legal and moral obligations to the fishermen, those affected will not have to worry about their retirement." Reichert and Young’s bill will increase the caps on both deductions and incomes for traditional IRAs from the income a plaintiff in the Exxon Valdez case receives from a settlement or judgment. The bill also allows fishermen to average their income back to 1994, the year of the original jury award in Federal court. This will provide fishermen some relief from the many years they struggled while the Alaskan shores were polluted with oil. Because Exxon Mobil has repeatedly delayed court ordered payments to those affected by the disaster, many of those affected are now facing retirement. This bill will help the affected fishermen with their retirement plans. There are approximately 6,000 plaintiffs in Washington State and at least one in every state in the country.
02.28.2008	March 6, 2007 Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was once again named the most centrist member of Washington State’s delegation. Reichert was the only member from Washington State’s delegation to be recognized as a centrist. The independent publication National Journal ranked members of the House and Senate ideologically using the votes they cast in 2006. Members with composite scores closest to 50 are at the exact center of each chamber. Dave Reichert’s composite score was 47.3 percent liberal – 52.7 percent conservative, putting him at the ideological center of the House. “Some of the efforts I am most proud of from the last Congress were those the Party or the President unfortunately opposed,” Congressman Reichert said. “Those efforts included fighting to include $7 billion in the budget for much needed education and healthcare funding, taking on Big Oil and pushing Exxon to pay the victims of the Exxon Valdez oil spill and pushing for the first increase in COPS funding in five years.” Reichert continued, “When I look at my colleagues who’ve been recognized as centrists, I realize what we have in common is that we’re all problem solvers. None of us toe the party line all the time, which is pretty clear when you look at this list and our successes. We’re all independent thinkers who put our district’s needs first and work cooperatively with everyone to make sure those needs are met.” The rankings appear in the March 3, 2007, issue of National Journal magazine.
02.28.2008	Today Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08, R) joined Rep. Patrick Kennedy (RI-01, D) and leaders from all corners of the healthcare industry to introduce a new version of The Personalized Health Information Act. The legislation would be an important step in creating a public-private partnership to promote use of secure, transportable and consumer-controlled personal health records (PHRs) and patient communication services for Americans. “Today, over 98,000 people die each year as a result of medical errors,” Congressman Dave Reichert said in highlighting the need for accurate, accessible medical records. “Personal health records will enable healthcare providers to get a more comprehensive view of patients’ health histories. As a result, the care and treatment the patient receives will be more accurate and less costly. In Washington’s Eighth District, we’re fortunate to have many businesses on the forefront of their respective industries, including Microsoft. I’m pleased that once again, an Eighth District business is leading the way in innovative, technological solutions to problems that must be addressed. ” “Personal health records are a critical piece of the puzzle as we move forward in an effort to improve the quality and cost efficiency of the healthcare system in this country,” said Congressman Patrick Kennedy. “This legislation will empower consumers to be better informed about their personal health while strengthening communication with their health care providers.” The bill would require that the Secretary of Health and Human Services create a personal health record incentive program and trust fund to expedite the use of personal health records by Medicare beneficiaries and other patients and their health care providers. PHRs can give patients access to and control over their personal health data while ensuring that providers have all of the information they need at the point of care if the patient consents. The bill is viewed by industry experts as a necessary first step toward the adoption of a nationwide electronic medical records system. Following today’s announcement, the group discussed the merits of the legislation and the need for the widespread adoption of health IT in order to enable our healthcare system to serve a more mobile population. The following healthcare leaders participated in today’s event: Dr. Frank Opelka, President, LSU Healthcare Network; Dr. Rose Marie Robertson, Chief Science Officer, American Heart Association; Ob Soonthorsima, Senior VP and CIO, Louisiana Blue Cross Blue Shield; Peter Neupert, Corporate Vice President, Microsoft; Dr. Edward Fotsch, CEO, Medem; Glen Tullman, CEO, Allscripts; and Dr. David Kibbe, Senior Advisor with the American Academy of Family Physicians.
02.28.2008	After voting today to create a National Medal of Honor Day on March 25th to celebrate and honor the recipients of the Medal of Honor, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) recognized Washington State’s Medal of Honor recipients. Bruce Crandall of Olympia became the State’s most recent recipient yesterday when President Bush bestowed the Medal of Honor to him during a White House ceremony. The medal is the highest military decoration a President can confer and is awarded for actions above and beyond the call of duty. “The Medal of Honor is granted to an extremely small number of men and women who represent the bravest among us,�? Congressman Reichert said. “Medal recipients excel in their service to this country despite crushing challenges and put the needs of others far above their own, often at the greatest personal cost. We also know that there are many who’ve served with distinction and displayed spectacular heroism who have never received the honor, and we honor those men and women as well.�? Army Major Bruce Crandall of Olympia, Washington On the morning of November 14, 1965, Army Major Bruce Crandall found his unit transporting a battalion of soldiers to a remote spot in the la Drang Valley. After several routine lifts into the area, the men on the ground came under a massive attack from the North Vietnamese army. On Major Crandall's next flight, three soldiers on his helicopter were killed, three more were wounded. But instead of lifting off to safety, Major Crandall kept his chopper on the ground -- in the direct line of enemy fire -- so that four wounded soldiers could be loaded aboard. Major Crandall flew the men back to base, where the injuries could be treated. At that point, he had fulfilled his mission. But he knew that soldiers on the ground were outnumbered and low on ammunition. So Major Crandall decided to fly back and Captain Ed Freeman volunteered to join him. In their unarmed choppers, they delivered desperately needed supplies. They carried out more of the wounded, even though medical evacuation was really not their mission. If Major Crandall had stopped here he would have been a hero. But he didn't stop. Fourteen times he flew into what they called the Valley of Death. He made those flights knowing that he faced what was later described as an "almost unbelievably extreme risk to his life." Over the course of the day, Major Crandall had to fly three different choppers. Two were damaged so badly they could not stay in the air. Yet he kept flying until every wounded man had been evacuated and every need of the battalion had been met. When they touched down on their last flight, Major Crandall and Captain Freeman had spent more than 14 hours in the air. They had evacuated some 70 wounded men. They had provided a lifeline that allowed the battalion to survive the day. In response to praise from his officers, Bruce brushed it off saying, "There was never a consideration that we would not go into those landing zones. They were my people down there, and they trusted in me to come and get them." A few years ago, Bruce learned he was being considered for our nation's highest military distinction. When he found out that Captain Freeman had also been nominated, Bruce insisted that his own name be withdrawn. If only one of them were to receive the Medal of Honor, he wanted it to be his wingman. Yesterday, Bruce Crandall received the honor he always deserved. Washington State’s Medal of Honor Recipients 32 Medals of Honor have been given to those that reside or were born in Washington State, including the only Medal of Honor awarded to a member of the United States Coast Guard. World War II hero Douglas Munro, who was born in Canada but resided in Washington State, received the honor. Washington State recipients of the Medal of Honor: Civil War Accredited to Hazard Stevens, Army Olympia John Moulder Wilson, Army Olympia Indian Campaigns John E. Clancy, Army Vancouver Philippine Insurrection Edward Eugene Lyon, Army Amboy Dominican Campaign Roswell Winans , USMC Washington World War I Deming Bronson, Army Seattle World War II Richard Beatty Anderson, USMC Washington Arnold L. Bjorklund, Army Seattle Gregory “Pappy�? Boyington, USMC Washington Robert Eugene Bush, Navy Washington Robert Edward Galer, USMC Seattle John Druse “Bud�? Hawk, Army Bremerton Reinhardt John Keppler, Navy Washington Dexter James Kerstetter, Army Centralia Joe Eugene Mann, Army Seattle Lloyd G. McCarter, Army Tacoma Douglas Albert Munro, Coast Guard Washington Jack James Pendleton, Army Yakima Albert Harold Rooks, Navy Washington Korean War Walter Carleton Monegan, USMC Seattle Archie Van Winkle, USMC Arlington Benjamin F. Wilson, Army Vashon Vietnam Lewis Albanese, Army Seattle Patrick Henry Brady, Army Seattle James Phillip Fleming, USAF Pullman Bruce Alan Grandstaff, Army Spokane Thomas James Kinsman, Army Seattle Robert Ronald Leisy, Army Seattle Marvin Glen Shields, Navy Seattle Bruce Crandall, Army Olympia Peace Time Awards Raymond Erwin Davis, Navy Puget Sound Harry Delmar Fadden, Navy Washington The following Medal of Honor recipients were born in Washington State but either moved or enlisted in another state. Place of Birth Accredited to Edward C. Allworth, Army Crawford, WA Corvallis, OR Victor Leonard Kandle, Army Roy, WA Redwood City, CA James Elms Swett, USMC Seattle, WA San Mateo, CA Bruce Avery Van Voorhis, Navy Aberdeen, WA Nevada Jonathan M. Wainwright, IV, Army Fort Walla Walla, WA Skaneateles, NY Frank Stanley Reasoner, USMC Spokane, WA Kellogg, ID
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) recognized Tony Woody, a University of Washington student, for receiving an Outstanding Student of the Year award from the Council of University Transportation Centers (CUTC). Woody, of Sammamish, Wash., is one of 34 students from across the country honored this year for achievements in transportation research, education and technology transfer. “Tony’s accomplishments distinguish him from thousands of other engineering students nationwide,” Congressman Reichert said. “Right now, one of the biggest challenges facing the District involves transportation. The careers of one in three individuals in Washington State directly relate to trade and our ability to move goods quickly and efficiently. Traffic congestion affects the daily lives of all District residents. The work that Tony Woody and other students like him are doing to tackle these tremendous challenges and craft solutions is invaluable.” Each year at the annual winter meeting of the Transportation Research Board, the Department honors the most outstanding student from each participating University Transportation Center for his/her achievements and promise for future contributions to the transportation field. Students of the Year are selected based on their accomplishments in such areas as technical merit and research, academic performance, professionalism and leadership.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) has learned that his advocacy on behalf of the fish passage facilities for Mud Mountain Dam in White River, Wash. has been rewarded with the announcement that $11.5 million was included in the President’s Budget Proposal for the project. In 2006, Congressman Reichert secured $2.639 million for the Mud Mountain White River Fish Passage and $5.47 million for the Mud Mountain Dam Replacement. “The current fish passage facility is a rudimentary structure that endangers the Puget Sound Chinook salmon’s safe passage to their spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam,�? Congressman Reichert said. “These funds will allow repairs that will be a boon to the salmon population that spawns there. I look forward to working with Norm Dicks to ensure the House funds this critical project.�? Should this project receive the necessary funding, the Army Corps of Engineers estimates that it will begin construction of the new diversion dam in 2008 and plans to have the project completed within two years. The diversion dam and trap and haul facilities enable threatened Puget Sound Chinook salmon to be passed to spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam.
02.28.2008	Citing a dependence on foreign oil and growing concern over global warming, a group of moderate Republicans, led by Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA), yesterday introduced legislation that would raise Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for the cars, sport utility vehicles (SUVs), minivans and pickup trucks that are sold in the United States. “Increased CAFE (corporate average fuel economy) standards must be part of the solution to weaning us off our dependence on oil,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “This bill would direct the administration to save consumers money and cut projected oil demands from cars, SUVs, minivans and pickups by 10% starting in 2018. Initiatives such as this aren’t the solution by themselves, but each is a portion of a larger plan to reduce our dependence on oil, to reduce the high cost of energy and provide us with energy security.” "Importantly, this legislation will require cars, trucks and SUVs to go further on a gallon of gas. Reasonable CAFE standards are both achievable and there is no question they would have an impact on fuel consumption in this country," said Congressman Mike Castle. “We absolutely have to wean our nation off of foreign oil,” said Congressman Randy Kuhl. “Beyond increasing our investment into research on alternative forms of energy to help in the long term, CAFE standards must be increased to decrease the demand for oil in the short term. I appreciate Congressman Reichert’s leadership on this issue and urge the Democratic leadership to make this issue a high priority.” H.R. 656 bill would direct the Secretary of Transportation to raise CAFE standards from the current level of 25 miles per gallon (mpg) to 33 mpg over the next 10 years. By 2025, this move would save 2.6 million barrels of oil each day. Specifically, the bill would allow the Secretary of Transportation to establish separate standards for different size vehicles, as long as the overall average of the fleet is at least 33 mpg. This would allow the Secretary to implement a size-based system similar to the recent reform of the light-truck fuel economy standards. The Secretary would also be authorized to establish a credit trading program between manufacturers, to help reduce the costs of compliance. The original cosponsors of H.R. 656 include Representatives Tim Johnson, Mike Castle, Randy Kuhl, Wayne Gilchrest, Chris Shays, Roscoe Bartlett, Todd Platts, Jim Saxton, Frank LoBiondo, Ray LaHood, James Walsh and Mark Kirk. According to a 2002 National Academy of Sciences (NAS) study, technologies exist today that can allow cars and trucks to go much farther on a gallon of gasoline – without sacrificing today’s features or safety. And because the NAS report didn’t even consider new technologies such as hybrids and clean diesel engines, the potential for increasing fuel economy is even greater. The potential savings the bill would offer consumers are enormous. Buyers of large SUVs and pickup trucks would save $2,000 in fuel costs over the life of the vehicle, even after paying the additional costs of the new technologies. Families buying minivans would save over $1,000. And these savings were calculated assuming gasoline cost $2 per gallon. At today’s prices, the savings would even greater.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement this evening following the President’s State of the Union address: “I’m gratified the President is pledging to take action on an issue the American public at large has indicated is extremely important – strengthening our energy security by weaning the nation off of our dependence on oil and encouraging the development of renewable sources of energy. Recently I asked the President to consider issuing a National Security Executive Order for a Northwest Pilot Project that would jump start mass production flex-fuel, plug-in vehicles in the region. I’m hopeful he will positively respond to that request in light of tonight’s comments. We need innovative solutions like this project, not short-sighted suggestions with potentially disastrous consequences, such as drilling in ANWR. ”The President also spoke at length about the importance of our military and in ensuring their continued strength, including asking Congress for the authority to increase the Army and the Marine Corps by 92,000 soldiers and Marines in the next five years. Unfortunately, he failed to indicate a similar commitment to our veterans. Right now, veterans have difficulty accessing the variety of medicines they need through the VA healthcare system. Most veterans are able to circumvent this overly restrictive plan by enrolling in the Medicare prescription drug plan. However, if the recently passed Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act becomes law, our veterans will see the cost of their prescription drugs increase and their access to them reduced. I’m extremely concerned about the medical needs of current veterans and of all those young men and women who are fighting for this country and its freedoms in Afghanistan and Iraq today. I’d like to see a greater emphasis on meeting their needs, particularly in light of the ever-increasing number of young veterans. “I’m encouraged by the President’s continued focus on the world’s AIDS crisis; however there are other global issues that demand our immediate attention. Primary among these is the genocide occurring right now in Darfur. Everyday, more people of Darfur are driven from their homes, or far worse, by those who’ve killed hundreds of thousands in the troubled region already. The international community must act to stop the genocide in Darfur, and the U.S. must lead the effort.”
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted for the College Student Relief Act of 2007 today, which cuts interest rates in half on loans for middle class borrowers to a fixed rate of 3.4 percent. The net effect is to save borrowers money over the life of their loan. Congressman Reichert cautioned that this is only a small part in what must be a broader effort to increase the accessibility of higher education. "Expanding access to college and technical education for American students is important for the future of this nation," said Congressman Dave Reichert. "Reducing interest rates on student loans will help students afford to continue their education after high school. It is only part of the solution to expanding access to higher education, however. Pell Grants should also be increased, as they provide a way for low-income students to attend college. We must also look at ways to make tuition more affordable for students, as ever-increasing tuition rates are prohibitive for many prospective low and middle-income students." Reichert continued, “Textbooks have become very expensive even though printing costs are dropping and specialized publishing on demand is very cheap. Additionally, college administration costs have grown exponentially. Reducing the cost of college for prospective students must be a priority if we are to increase access. Reducing the cost of student loans helps those who’ve already managed to pay tuition, but tuition rates are cost-prohibitive for many who’d like to continue their education and more must be done to break down that financial barrier.” The College Student Relief Act of 2007: Would cut interest rates on subsidized Stafford Loans for undergraduates over the next five years from the current rate of 6.8% to 3.4%. Would save students thousands of dollars over the life of their loans. For example, in 2011 when the rate cut is fully phased-in, the average borrower in Washington State with $14,594 in student debt will save $2,210 over the life of the loan – if the student started school in 2007.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today to add a protection to H.R. 4, the Medicare Prescription Drug Negotiation Act of 2007, that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services cannot restrict or otherwise limit access to any drug covered by the Medicare prescription drug plan. H.R. 4 as originally written does not guarantee that seniors will continue to have uninterrupted access to drugs critical for mental health treatment, drugs important to transplants like immunosuppressants, oral chemotherapy drugs and life extending antiretroviral therapy for HIV/AIDS patients. Unfortunately, the motion failed and the important protection was not added. Without this protection, Congressman Reichert felt that H.R. 4 was doing a disservice to our seniors and veterans and voted against final passage of the legislation. H.R. 4 did not go through the committee process and amendments to the bill were not permitted, unfortunately. Either would have allowed for the correction of this dangerous provision that would force the same ills the VA healthcare system suffers from upon the Medicare prescription drug program. The Medicare prescription drug program to this point has produced far lower than projected costs on a much wider variety of drugs than the VA healthcare system offers. The Congressional Budget Office has indicated H.R. 4 would not result in significantly lower prices. However H.R. 4 would drastically limit the type and variety of drugs available to those in the plan. “If the government directly negotiates Medicare prescription drug prices, it is inevitable that the cost of needed medical care would go up and veterans would suffer,” said Charles Kelley, Washington State Commander of the American Legion. “America’s veterans are the only population that have �?pre-paid’ the cost of medical care through their service to our country. They deserve the finest health care that the government can provide.” “I’ve heard from many constituents, specifically veterans, who rely on drugs that are crucial to their health and well-being that are not available to them through the VA. These veterans currently get those medications through the Medicare prescription drug program and I cannot eliminate that access,” Congressman Reichert said. “Limiting access in the Medicare prescription drug program to life-saving medicines that seniors, veterans and others rely on is wrong and poorly constructed policy.” In 2006 and 2007 the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services issued formulary guidelines to prescription drug plans requiring coverage of “all or substantially all” of the medications, like the ones listed above, for six therapeutic classes of drugs. The current VA system does not provide similar protections, and in fact, veterans do not have access to several of the drugs available under the Medicare program through this protection---such as the anti-cancer drug Anastrozole and the anti-seizure drug Oxcarbazepine. "It is important to preserve beneficiaries' access to and choice of a wide-range of prescription drugs,” said Dr. Sidney Nelson, Dean of the University of Washington School of Pharmacy. “We must consider that some drugs are more effective for some patients than for others, and by enabling each patient to select the specific drugs that best suit their individual health needs, we actually reduce 'downstream' health care costs - patients will have fewer doctor visits, fewer trips to the emergency room, and fewer costly hospitalizations." The American Legion, a veterans service organization with nearly three million members, yesterday released a letter opposing H.R. 4, saying it “is not in the best interest of America’s veterans and their families.” It goes on to say the following: “Every time the federal government has enacted pharmaceutical price control legislation, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) experienced significant increases in its pharmaceutical costs as an unintended consequence.” A letter from the ALS (Lou Gehrig’s Disease) Association voiced “strong opposition” to H.R. 4, saying: “Legislation that authorizes the federal government to negotiate Medicare prescription drug prices will significantly limit the ability of people with ALS to access the drugs they need and will seriously jeopardize the future development of treatments for the disease.” The Arthritis Foundation has raised serious concerns about the bill: “The response to drug therapies for people with arthritis is highly individualized and dependent on the form of arthritis being treated, drug treatment history, and the person’s risk tolerance for drug side effects. The drug treatment for persons with arthritis who depend on Medicare coverage must not be compromised by limiting the choices of available drugs or by forcing consumers to select from the least effective treatments due to Part D program design.” The Epilepsy Foundation has raised concerns about losing access to life-saving medicines: “Access to the right medications for epilepsy can make the difference between living in the community, being employed and leading a healthy and productive life. The consequences of denying the appropriate medication for an individual with epilepsy can be life-threatening and can include injury, emergency room visits, hospitalization or other types of costly medical interventions.” The National Alliance for Mental Illness expressed significant reservations about concerns about losing access to life-saving medicines: “NAMI is extremely concerned that placing this new legal mandate on the Secretary would directly result in loss of the “all or substantially all” guidance in the 6 protected classes, and therefore poses a significant risk to Medicare beneficiaries with mental illness.”
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement after President Bush requested additional funds for an increased military presence in Iraq tonight: “I’ve advocated changing our approach in Iraq and for doing whatever it takes to accomplish our objectives in the region so that we leave Iraq with our mission accomplished - an Iraqi goverment ready and able to govern, security forces capable of protecting Iraqis and policing their nation, and a strong infrastructure and growing economy. I hope the troop surge accomplishes that. “There is some indication that some of the commanding officers may have indicated this approach isn’t preferred. I’ve said all along that we must listen to our military commanders in Iraq and it is my hope that the President’s request is in response to the requests they have made of the Pentagon. From what I understand, the President’s announcement tonight on the newly increased focus on political and economic efforts is in direct response to our military commanders' requests and I’m pleased by that. “It’s too soon to know if this approach will or won’t work. Those that rush to agree with the President’s proposal are rushing to judgment, as are those that object to this plan simply because it is from the President. I will continue to support the troops already deployed to Iraq. I will also be watchful of the results of this plan, and hope that it produces a significantly more stable, self-sufficient Iraq.�?
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) reintroduced H.R. 367, the Gang Elimination Act of 2007, today. The bill directs the U.S. Attorney General to develop a national strategy to eliminate the illegal operations of the top three international drug gangs that present the greatest threat to the United States. “Gangs are increasing in number, strength and the type of criminal activity they engage in,” Congressman Dave Reichert said. “Right now, there are approximately 800,000 gang members in America, as many people as there are in our military. We must focus our resources on the operations of the gangs that pose the most danger to our communities. Just recently, a gang member gunned down a deputy in the King County Sheriff’s Office. This type of cold-blooded violence and disregard for life is prevalent among gang members and we must work to diminish their presence in our communities.” Congressman Reichert’s Gang Elimination Act is part of the “Suburban Agenda” created by the House Suburban Caucus led by Rep. Mark Kirk (IL-10). The Suburban Agenda includes legislation to directly meet the needs of suburban families across the U.S. Today, over half of Americans live in the suburbs. Members of the House Suburban Caucus have been working intensively to refine a new agenda for Congress meeting key priorities in education, health care, economic growth and conservation. Several key pieces of the Suburban Agenda were passed by the House during the 109th Congress, including the Deleting Online Predators Act (which aims to protect children from sex offenders who use sites like MySpace to find victims online to prey on), the Health IT Promotion Act (which encourages the adoption of electronic medical records, which will reduce medical errors and reduce wasteful costs), the Charitable Donations for Open Space Act (encourages the donation of land for conservation purposes) and the School Safety Acquiring Faculty Excellence Act (which allowed for criminal background checks on all school staff that interact with children).
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), outgoing Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, gave remarks on the House floor today about H.R. 1, Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007. Congressman Reichert voted in support of the legislation but cautioned that several provisions contained in the bill were problematic. The following is a synopsis of Congressman Reichert’s remarks: “Last year as Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, I oversaw many of the committee’s accomplishments in addressing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. Among them were the successful House passage of the 21st Century Emergency Communication Act, the Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders Act, and comprehensive bipartisan FEMA reform. My subcommittee was successful last year because of our willingness and ability to work across the aisle to find solutions to complicated problems. “I remain a strong supporter of certain provisions in this legislation, such as language to make first responder funding risk-based. Unfortunately I have many concerns about other language included in the bill and believe it would be better public policy had the bill been considered in committee and a rule allowed for an open amendment process. “For example, I have grave concerns with Section 408, which includes TSA (Transportation Security Administration) Personnel Management provisions. This provision removes the flexibility of TSA to move employees to where they are needed most. This provision was not a 9/11 Commission recommendation and has no place in a bill described as enacting those recommendations. “Including this provision without hearings or examining its potential impact is irresponsible. Last summer during the U.K. liquid explosives scare, DHS was able to retrain and rapidly redeploy TSA officers to address the new threat. Section 408 of this legislation would remove this authority. This provision warrants a full debate by the Committee on Homeland Security as well as the entire House. “It is my hope that we continue the positive strides of the last Congress and that if this bill does reach a conference, Republicans will have the opportunity to voice our concerns and once again work in a bi-partisan way on homeland security issues.”
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) recently urged President Bush not to allow drilling for oil and gas in Alaska’s Bristol Bay, and specifically not to allow ExxonMobil to drill in this area until the company pays the victims of the Exxon Valdez tragedy. ExxonMobil’s prior behavior in the wake of the Exxon Valdez oil spill almost 18 years ago does not indicate they would be good stewards of the environment and local communities. This issue is of particular importance to Congressman Reichert, as residents of his District affected by the Exxon Valdez tragedy still have not been compensated by ExxonMobil, even though multiple legal rulings have ordered the company to pay billions in damages. “Corporations such as ExxonMobil must be responsible for environmental damage that results from their negligence when drilling anywhere, but particularly in pristine areas and near communities,” Congressman Reichert said. “ExxonMobil should show that they are capable of being a responsible corporation who is accountable for their actions before being allowed the right to drill in federal waters. Swift corrective action for environmental damage as well as any financial consequences nearby communities incur as a result of corporate negligence is absolutely critical when an incident occurs. This company should not be rewarded with new permits until they have proven they are serious about being responsible for their actions.” Congressman Reichert recently sent a letter urging President Bush not to allow drilling in Alaska’s Bristol Bay. Reichert further requested that in the event that President Bush does choose to allow drilling in Bristol Bay, that safeguards are put in place to ensure that any environmental damage that may occur is followed by prompt and complete corrective action by the corporations involved. Last spring on the 17th anniversary of the Exxon Valdez spill, Congressman Reichert spearheaded efforts in the House and Senate to pressure ExxonMobil to make good on their financial obligations to the fishermen and other members of the communities affected by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Following that move, Congressman Reichert contacted ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson and requested a meeting to discuss the effect the protracted litigation resulting from the Exxon Valdez oil spill is having on the approximately 6,000 Washington State residents who are plaintiffs in the case. Tillerson, however, refused to meet with Reichert.
02.28.2008	Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-04), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) jointly opposed a Democrat plan that contains a thinly disguised attempt to raise taxes on Washington residents. The package includes important earmark reform that would bring much-needed transparency to the process. However, in an unfortunate, politically motivated move, a rule known as “pay-go” was attached that will almost certainly lead to higher taxes on American workers, families and businesses that create jobs. “It’s the second day of the new Congress, and already Democrats are making it easier to raise taxes,” said Congressman Hastings. “Attempting to balance the budget through tax increases rather than spending cuts is irresponsible and would slow economic growth” “I will continue to support policies that lower taxes and promote fiscal responsibility,” said Congresswoman McMorris. “I believe in a balanced budget, earmark reform, and fiscal discipline. However, it is a mistake to believe that this proposal leads to fiscal responsibility. We do not have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. This reform will only open the door to tax increases.” “I’ve consistently supported greater public disclosure of federal spending and will be the first to attach my name to earmark requests and justify the need for the expenditure,” said Congressman Reichert. “Taxpayers deserve to know how their hard-earned dollars are spent. But I cannot support a reform package that will almost certainly lead to higher taxes on these same hard-working taxpayers. I agree with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that we need fiscal discipline. But the way to reduce the deficit is to rein in federal spending and cut taxes. Tax cuts spur economic growth and create jobs. It is not to raise taxes on families and small businesses.” This opposition to pay-go comes on the heels of a combined effort this week by Washington State's delegation to permanently extend the state sales tax deduction. Failing to extend the deduction would amount to a tax increase on Washington families. Hastings, McMorris and Reichert joined other members of Washington State's congressional delegation in support of H.R. 60, a bi-partisan bill offered Thursday to make permanent the deduction of state sales tax. At every opportunity, Hastings, McMorris and Reichert have worked in a bi-partisan way to protect this important provision for Washington State taxpayers.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement today after the Department of Homeland Security released its most comprehensive review to date of the emergency communications abilities of the nation’s cities: “Today’s report addressing some of the emergency communications problems communities around the nation are facing is a step forward for the Department of Homeland Security. The Department is finally giving emergency communications the attention and focus it requires and is beginning to understand that emergency communication is crucial to effective emergency response. “The legislation I wrote and Congress passed last year addressed many of those issues and laid the foundation to address the remaining problems. The legislation mandated a National Emergency Communications Report to recommend goals and timeframes for the achievement of redundant, sustainable, and interoperable emergency communications systems. The report released today by DHS is a first step in meeting this requirement by identifying gaps in cities’ interoperable communications capabilities. “Democrats have proposed creating a new multi-billion dollar grant program specifically dedicated to interoperability. I would support the creation of an additional grant program to help assist with improving the remaining emergency communications issues, following their identification. However, as a country, we’ve already spent over $2 billion on emergency communications since 2003 and we continue to see problems. For example, this report shows that states need to do a better job in planning. The bottom line is more money alone will not solve the problem. In my legislation, we require that for states to receive interoperable funds they must first complete a Statewide Interoperable Communications Plan. In order to address national security issues we must spend national security funds effectively, not politically.�? As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology in the 109th Congress, Congressman Reichert introduced the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act. After working with first responders, state and local officials as well as experts in the private sector across the nation, Congressman Reichert drafted this legislation in order to address the emergency communications problems that the nation saw the tragic results of after Hurricane Katrina and 9/11. The President signed Reichert’s legislation into law on October 4, 2006.
02.28.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement regarding the late President Gerald R. Ford: "President Ford dedicated much of his adult life to public service, serving first in the U.S. Navy during World War II, then in the House of Representatives and as Republican Leader of that body. Eventually, he served this nation as both its Vice President and President, ushering the country through one of its most difficult periods following Richard Nixon's disgraced presidency. Ford's challenges were among the most significant this nation has faced and he met them, in an open, honest and candid way that helped Americans to once again respect the Office of the President. "President Ford worked to strengthen our nation and improve our children's future. In doing so, he made many tough decisions and at times faced blistering criticism. Ford faced criticism in the same manner he approached the Office, honestly and directly. His service as our nation's President was relatively brief, lasting less than one term. However, the example he set in serving this country in an open, honest and forthright way is one that public servants today should still be looking to as an example of how to best serve."
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the approval of permanent normal trade relations status to Vietnam today. Reichert co-sponsored the bill to expand Vietnam’s trade status with the United Status, which was important to local companies, including Boeing. Boeing strongly supported the approval of permanent normal trade relations status for Vietnam, with an eye to increasing their already growing trade relations with the nation. “In Washington State, where one of three jobs is related to trade, the expansion of free trade is the highest priority for me,” said Congressman Reichert. “Expanding permanent normal trade relations also helps increase U.S. security. Expanded trade relations allow us to work with other countries when defending our nation’s security and that of our allies. As a member of the Trade Working Group, I will continue to look for ways to expand free trade in ways that protects intellectual property rights and strengthens the American economy and national security.” The House-passed bill also contains the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement (HOPE) Act and the Andean Trade Preferences Extension Act, among other provisions.
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) sharply criticized House and Senate leadership for including a provision in a tax extender package that would authorize Gulf Coast States to allow drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf along their shores. The tax extender bill originally was limited to tax provisions, including those important to Washington State such as the two-year extensions of the State Sales Tax Deduction, the R&D tax credit and a two-year extension of a college tuition deduction program, among others. “I’ve been pushing for an extension of the State Sales Tax Deduction because it is vitally important to Washington families. However, I am appalled that leadership chose to attach a totally unrelated provision to the tax extenders package,” said Congressman Reichert. “This is like last year when leadership attached a provision to allow drilling in ANWR to the Defense Appropriations bill before we adjourned last December. At that time I crossed party lines and took a rare procedural vote against the rule to try to have ANWR removed. I did a similar thing today when I voted to remove the ill-advised, and irrelevant to the tax extender package, OCS provision. Unfortunately the measure failed and the provision remained in the bill. “Attaching provisions to expand the areas where oil companies may drill rather than focusing on the development of renewable sources of energy is short-sighted. Provisions such as the R&D tax credit incentivize the development of these sources of energy and are crucial for America’s future energy security. This legislation includes almost $4 billion in tax credits for renewable and alternative sources of energy, but we must do more, such as increasing CAFÉ standards and the development of plug-in hybrids. “Washington families rely on and need the State Sales Tax Deduction and the college tuition deduction. These provisions and others keep money in the hands of the people who earn it and to whom it has the greatest potential value. To fail to extend the State Sales Tax Deduction effectively means those Washington State families, and those that live in other states with a state sales tax, are subject to a significant tax increase, and that is not acceptable.”
02.28.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement in response to the recent arrest of Larry Corrigan, former employee of the King County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office, in the course of an internet predator sting: “In response to a statement made by Larry Corrigan’s ex-wife, members of the media have asked whether Larry Corrigan ran my recent reelection campaign. That statement is false. “The extent of his involvement on any of my campaigns was during periods in 1997 and 2001, when he occupied the role of deputy treasurer for campaigns for the King County Sheriff’s Office. He continued to be a supporter in my congressional campaigns, but did not have an official role. “I’m shocked by the news of Larry Corrigan’s arrest. The charges Larry Corrigan is facing are extremely serious and should be thoroughly investigated. Anyone guilty of such crimes should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law so that our children are protected from the threats sexual predators pose.”
02.28.2008	In just his first term in office, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) has continued to move up his power ranking in the U.S. House of Representatives. In just one term, Congressman Reichert's influence and ability to get things done for his District in Washington, DC lands him at the top of Washington State's most powerful legislators and the second most powerful among Washington State's Representatives. The criteria used in ranking members of Congress is based on a combination of position, influence, and legislation. Congressman Reichert distinguished himself early in the U.S. House or Representatives and became only the sixth freshman in the history of the House to be given a committee chairmanship. "As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, we had an obligation to fix the problems associated with our poor response to Hurricane Katrina," Congressman Reichert said. "We were successful in pushing through the House and into law needed reforms that will strengthen the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and improve emergency communication for our first responders. In addition, I have been able to bring back to the district significant amount of funding for projects that will benefit all of us that live and work in the District. Projects in and around the Eighth Congressional District received over $100 million in funding over the last two years, including $37.5 million in transportation projects from SAFETEA-LU." Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Peter King commended Chairman Reichert's work on FEMA reform legislation, "Chairman Reichert was the driving force behind this legislation. Without his leadership and 30 years of law enforcement experience, these comprehensive reforms never would have been possible." U.S. House of Representatives from Washington State Name Rank in State Score Rank in House Rep. Dicks (D-WA-6) 1 32.75 36 Rep. Reichert (R-WA-8, Freshman) 2 19.25 166 Rep. McMorris (R-WA-5, Freshman) 3 18.62 178 Rep. Hastings (R-WA-4) 4 15.50 229 Rep. McDermott (D-WA-7) 5 14.88 245 Rep. Baird (D-WA-3) 6 11.63 305 Rep. Larsen (D-WA-2) 7 10.25 330 Rep. Inslee (D-WA-1) 8 8.94 354 Rep. Smith (D-WA-9) 9 6.62 408 The rankings were done by Knowlegis, a government relations knowledge management company that considers among its ranking criteria Members' position, influence and legislative activity. A list of all the Power Rankings can be found at https://www.congress.org/power Congressman Reichert's legislative accomplishments in 2006: The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006: Passed the House of Representatives on July 25, 2006, by a vote of 414-2. The majority of this legislation was included in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for FY 2007 and was signed into law on October 4, 2006. The National Emergency Management Reform Enhancement Act of 2006: Passed the House Committee on Homeland Security on May 17, 2006, by a vote of 28-0. After in-depth negotiations with Leadership and other Committee Chairmen, Chairman Reichert was successful in strengthening FEMA within the Department of Homeland Security and having this legislation attached to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for FY 2007, which was signed into law on October 4, 2006. The National Police Athletic League (PAL) Youth Enrichment Reauthorization Act of 2005: Congressman Reichert was successful in attaching this language to the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, which was signed into law on July 27, 2006. The Homeland Security Science and Technology Enhancement Act of 2006: Passed the Homeland Security Committee on June 14, 2006. Congressman Reichert offered an amendment to the Agricultural Appropriations bill for FY 2007 to exempt Smith Brothers Farms from new producer-handler regulations. Unfortunately the amendment was not made in order. Congressman Reichert offered an amendment to the Science, State, Justice, Commerce Appropriations bill for FY 2007 to increase funding for Justice Assistance Grants program by $25 million. This amendment was accepted. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, Rep. Reichert has chaired 11 hearings this year important to protecting our homeland. These hearings include: Protecting the Homeland: Fighting Pandemic Flu From the Front Lines. The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from the Field. The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from State and Local Governments. Proposed Fiscal Year 2007 Budget: Enhancing Preparedness for First Responders. State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives on Federal Coordination of Grants, Standards, and Technology. Washington State Field Hearing: Planning and Preparedness, Federal, State and Local Coordination. New Jersey Field Hearing: Preparing for, Responding to, and Preventing Terrorist Attacks, Natural Disasters and Other Emergencies: Is Northern New Jersey Ready. Emergency Care Crisis: A National Unprepared for Public Health Disasters Northern Exposure: Assessing Border Security The Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate: Is it Structured for Success? Helping Business Protect the Homeland: Is the Department of Homeland Security Effectively Implementing the SAFETY Act? Awards and honors received by Rep. Reichert this year include: Received the 2006 Process Control and SCADA (Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition System) Security Leadership Awards from a leading Cyber Security Organization for the results of their October 2005 joint hearing, “SCADA and the Terrorist Threat: Protecting the Nation’s Critical Control Systems. Received the Chamber of Congress Spirit of Enterprise award for work on tax issues, health care for small business owners, and promoting free trade. Received the RAINN Crime Fighter Award because as a result of efforts to bring sexual offenders to justice, enhance services for victims of sexual assault and reduce the incidence of rape. Received the NFIB Guardian award for work on behalf of Small Business. The Genocide Intervention Network gave Rep. Reichert an ‘A’ grade for his efforts stop the genocide of thousands in the Darfur region of Sudan.
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) today for their expedited action in signing a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) to allow the construction of a new biodiesel production plant by Imperium Renewables in the Port of Greys Harbor. The subcommittee Reichert chairs has oversight of FEMA. "I am very appreciative of Director Paulison's efforts and those of FEMA as a whole for their work in approving this LOMR." Chairman Reichert said. "I am particularly pleased that Members from the Washington State Delegation were able to work together in a bi-partisan way to keep pressure on FEMA to take this necessary action." "Without the support and guidance of Congressman Reichert and the Washington Congressional delegation and their staffs, our project may have been jeopardized," said John Plaza, founder and president of Imperium Renewables. "At the very least, significant delays would have crippled our business. Now, we can focus on construction, hiring staff and producing biodiesel to help reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil and start reducing global warming." Chairman Reichert continued, "This action will have a positive impact in Washington State and will save good-paying jobs from going elsewhere. This new 100 million gallon biodiesel production plant will be one of the largest biodiesel manufacturing plants in the country, creating between 250-350 construction jobs during the year it will take to build the plant. Another 50 full-time jobs will be created at the plant and in related industries. In addition, this new plant will supply Washington State with an alternative form of energy that is cleaner than traditional gasoline and will continue pushing us toward becoming energy independent." Background on Imperium Renewables: Imperium Renewables, the parent company of Seattle Biodiesel, is already a national leader in next-generation biodiesel refining and manufacturing technology, having pioneered advanced technology solutions for sustainable energy. Seattle Biodiesel is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Imperium Renewables, a leader in biodiesel systems development. Imperium Renewables, headquartered in Seattle, WA is one of the nation's leading commercial biodiesel refiners, bioneering locally grown fuel and technology for cleaner air and energy independence. They are the first company in the Pacific Northwest to open and operate a commercial-scale biodiesel refinery producing fuel that meets or exceeds industry standards.
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) discusses the recent alleged terrorist threat against several sports venues and the steps taken to protect critical infrastructure generally: "While the recent alleged terrorist threat to certain NFL stadiums appears not to be credible, we must take every threat seriously. In its final report, the 9/11 Commission specifically mentioned the vulnerability of critical infrastructure. It has now been over five years since the 9/11 attacks, and our Nation has made tremendous progress in identifying and protecting our vulnerabilities. However, more work needs to be done and we must remain vigilant. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, we have taken great strides to protect our Nation including the successful passage of language from the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006, which I introduced on May 11th of this year." Earlier this year, Chairman Reichert received the 2006 Process Control and SCADA (Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition System) Security Leadership Award for his leadership in Cyber Security Organization and the results of the October 2005 joint hearing, "SCADA and the Terrorist Threat: Protecting the Nation's Critical Control Systems." Reichert continues, "We also must continue to take steps to protect our Nation's ports. Included in the SAFE Ports Act were two amendments I authored to ensure that seaport personnel are prepared to respond to a terrorist attack. These amendments directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a Port Security Training Program and a Port Security Exercise Program. In Seattle, we have two professional sports stadiums in close proximity to the Port of Seattle; securing our Nation's ports will help ensure their safety as well." The SAFE Ports Act was signed into law on October 13, 2006. On September 25, 2006, the Department of Homeland Security announced Fiscal Year 2006 funding for critical infrastructure in Washington State, including: $7,416,539 for the Port of Seattle, $2.5 million for the Port of Tacoma under the FY 2006 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP), $581,196 for intracity rail security, $350,000 for intracity bus security, $2,000,000 for ferry security. $1,756,000 for the under the Buffer Zone Program. The Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) focuses on securing the area around chemical facilities and other critical infrastructure by identifying vulnerabilities in the community and recommending protective measures to deny terrorists an operational environment. BZPP grants are provided to local law enforcement to enhance security around critical infrastructure. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2007 included the following funding: Port Security Grant Program -- $210,000,000 ($35 million increase) Trucking Industry Security Grant Program -- $12,000,000 ($7 million increase) Intercity Bus Security Grant Program -- $12,000,000 ($2 million increase) Intercity Rail Passenger Service -- $175,000,000 ($25 million increase) Buffer Zone Protection Program -- $50,000,000 (no change)
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praises the latest numbers on the economy: "The latest budget numbers are proof again that the recent tax cuts are working. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), a near-record-setting rate of growth of tax receipts increased federal revenue by roughly $253 billion from fiscal year 2005 to fiscal year 2006. Since 1981 the growth rate in federal revenue has only been higher once, in fiscal year 2005 when revenue grew 14.5%. "America's economy is strong and is continuing to grow stronger. There have been thirty-seven consecutive months of uninterrupted job growth, with 1.7 million jobs created over the past twelve months and 211,000 new jobs created in March alone. The current unemployment level is 4.6%, which is lower than the average of the 1970's, 1980's, and 1990's. Pro-growth economic policies have created an environment that encourages people to invest, to save and to start small businesses. Low taxes are the centerpiece of pro-growth policies. When people are allowed to keep more of their own money, they can spend more and invest more. This sort of action stimulates the economy and more tax revenue is generated." Citing "the fastest wage growth in more than five years," the Washington Post reported Saturday, October 7, 2006, on the strength of the expanding economy: "Unemployment went down and paychecks went up last month [i.e., September], the government said yesterday, and it added that job growth for the year ending in March may have been far stronger than previously thought. Workers found jobs and got paid more, while consumers hit the stores and auto showrooms to spend some of the extra cash gained from falling gasoline prices." Reichert continued, "In both 2001 and 2003, Congress passed a variety of tax cuts that have helped our nation's economy grow while putting money back into the pockets of the people who earned it. These tax cuts included reducing the tax rates and simplifying the tax structure, doubling the child tax credit, reducing the marriage penalty and eliminating the death tax. Unfortunately, without further Congressional action these tax cuts will expire and result in one of the largest tax increases in the history of the United States. Congress needs to act to make these tax cuts permanent and continue the positive trend in our economy. " By the numbers: The Budget Deficit has Shrunk Dramatically: The Fiscal Year 2006 budget deficit was $248 billion, 1.9% of the gross domestic product (GDP) and a $71 billion decline from last year. Job Creation Continues: More than 6.6 million jobs created since August 2003 – 1.7 million new jobs over the past 12 months and 37 straight months of job growth. U.S. Unemployment Rate Remains Low: The U.S. unemployment rate is 4.6 percent – below the average of each of the past four decades. Employment Increased In 48 States Over The Past 12 Months Ending In July. Over The First Half Of This Year, Our Economy Grew At A Strong 4.1 Percent Annual Rate – Faster Than Any Other Major Industrialized Country. Productivity Has Grown A Strong 2.5 Percent Over The Past Four Quarters, Well Ahead Of Average Productivity Growth In The Last Three Decades: Strong productivity growth helps lead to GDP growth and higher real wages. Gas Prices Continue to Drop: Prices at the pump have dropped nearly 75 cents nationwide since early August. The Stock Market is at Record Levels.
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) released the following statement after the President signed the Military Commissions Act of 2006, S. 3930, into law today: “The Military Commissions Act creates a full and fair judicial system to ensure terrorists captured in the ongoing Global War on Terrorism are brought to justice. It is critical to establish a way to hold those who’ve harmed Americans accountable for their crimes. The bill establishes a process that gives terrorists the right to legal counsel and access to all evidence that pertains to their trial with the important exception of classified materials. We need every tool possible to fight terrorism. The system allows the U.S. to try those who’ve plotted, colluded on and executed terrorist attacks against Americans. "This legislation ensures provisions I have previously fought for to ban cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of enemy combatants. Interrogations are vital to obtaining intelligence in the fight against terrorists. As a former law enforcement officer I have had personal experience interrogating suspects and know the value of receiving good intelligence. However, I believe we must hold ourselves to a higher moral standard. Cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment violates U.S. treaty obligations and undermines our moral authority.” Among other things, the Military Commissions Act of 2006 does the following: Establishes the procedures, rules, and legal framework for trying accused terrorists. Creates a process to effectively and fairly prosecute terrorists, while also protecting American troops and intelligence agents fighting the Global War on Terror. Recognizes the ongoing nature of the war on terrorism and affords terrorists basic rights while ensuring American troops can continue to effectively fight terrorists. Allows accused terrorists to obtain a civilian defense counsel; defense counsel is given a reasonable opportunity to obtain witnesses, and the U.S. government must give any exculpatory evidence to the defense counsel. Fully conforms with Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, as well as all applicable U.S. laws and international treaty obligations.
02.27.2008	In response to the revelations of deeply troubling contact between former Rep. Mark Foley and students in the Congressional Page Program, Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement: "The conversations that media reports describe between Mark Foley and students in the Congressional Page program are disturbing and warrant immediate investigation. I'm pleased that the Speaker has referred this matter to the Attorney General's office for investigation. It is entirely inappropriate and a gross breach of trust by any Member of Congress that uses his or her position of authority, power and access to attempt to exploit children. As elected officials, we are bound by the highest sense of duty to protect our children. "Any Member of Congress who was aware of these interactions, including members of leadership, must cooperate or continue to cooperate with any investigation into the matter. The American people must be confident that these matters are being thoroughly investigated and that all involved are held accountable. If evidence reveals any violation of law, those responsible should be criminally prosecuted. "As a former Sheriff, I oversaw programs to track and identify sexual predators. We must all be vigilant; it's imperative that any suggestion of inappropriate sexual contact online or otherwise between an adult or person of trust and a child be quickly and thoroughly investigated. As a father, grandfather and former sheriff, I believe that victims must be protected and predators identified and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. "
02.27.2008	In response to media reports that have not portrayed Rep. Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) position on global warming accurately, Congressman Reichert issued the following statement: “I do not question the reality of global warming. The question I have and am researching is whether global warming is caused by man’s activity or if global warming is one of the natural temperature fluctuations we’ve seen over the course of the earth’s history. And the follow-up question for me is, what can we do about it? “That is why I have pursued an environmental and energy agenda that assumes global warming is affected by man’s activity. I support carbon sequestration technology, increased CAFÉ standards, more stringent regulations of greenhouse gas emissions, more energy efficient buildings, heavy-truck idling reduction and energy conservation technology, the development of hydrogen engines and a greatly reduced reliance on fossil fuels, among other things, in order to decrease the effects of global warming. “This is good policy even outside of the global warming debate. As an investigator, I am pursuing all of the information available on global warming and its potential causes. My mind is open and my office is open. I will continue to meet with groups concerned about this issue and gather evidence. Until I am able to conclusively determine its cause(s) based on the results of my research, I will continue to aggressively pursue and advocate for an environmental agenda that assumes it is caused by man’s activity and works to counteract it. This is sound environmental policy, and it is sound Homeland Security policy. “Misunderstanding on this issue seems to have arisen because I have not simply made a definitive statement that I know for a fact what causes Global Warming. I will not make such a definitive statement until I know it is true. But I do understand that Global Warming exists, that it is likely caused by man, and that we must aggressively pursue an agenda that works to alleviate this problem.”
02.27.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), touted the provisions in the SAFE Port Act (Security and Accountability for Every Port Act), H.R. 4954, that are important to the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma. Congressman Reichert is a co-sponsor of the bi-partisan SAFE Port Act and was named a Conferee on the House-Senate Conference Committee for the bill. “This bill doubles port security funding, ensures that nearly all inbound cargo containers will be scanned for radiation and strengthens the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) program.” Congressman Reichert explained. “Additionally, the bill requires DHS to establish joint operations centers at seaports to bring together federal, state, local, and private sector partners to coordinate security measures and unify response efforts. Two amendments I offered and that were attached to the bill pertain to the importance of coordinated training and exercise efforts as well.” Congressman Reichert continued, “I’ve been regularly meeting with management and labor at our nation’s ports to identify gaps, including with the longshoremen in Washington State. We discussed their concerns about port security and training, and as a result, Mr. Pascrell, the Ranking Member on my Committee, and I crafted two bi-partisan amendments. The importance of these amendments was impressed upon us by those workers who are working daily at the country's ports.” “The Port Security Training Program amendment requires DHS to establish a Port Security Training Program to help the Nation’s commercial seaports to prevent, prepare for, respond to, mitigate against and recover from threatened or real acts of terrorism and emergencies. The Port Security Exercise Program amendment requires DHS to establish a Port Security Exercise Program for the purpose of testing and evaluating the capabilities of Federal, State, territorial, local and international governments, commercial seaport personnel (longshoremen) and management, emergency response providers and the private sector,” Rep. Reichert said. “We are particularly pleased that Rep. Dave Reichert and Rep. William Pascrell [were able] to offer amendments creating a Port Security Training Program and Port Security Exercise Program for longshore workers,” said James Spinosa, International President of the International Longshore & Warehouse Union.“ The Port Security Training Program amendment will be instrumental in coordinating and preparing for a major incident. The Port Security Exercise Program will prepare longshore workers and marine clerks to respond to an incident.” The SAFE Port Act is a comprehensive proposal that will take steps to prevent threats from reaching the United States, track and protect containers en route, and harden security at U.S. ports. Ø Authorizes a Port Security Grant Program at $400 million per year to harden U.S. ports against terrorist attacks and enhance capabilities to respond to attacks; Ø Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure that 98 percent of all inbound cargo containers are scanned for radiation by deploying radiation detection equipment and establishing procedures for examining containers; Ø Requires DHS to establish joint operations centers at seaports to bring together federal, state, local, and private sector partners to coordinate security measures at the ports and unify response efforts; and Ø Strengthens the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) program, which creates partnerships between DHS and the private sector to establish transparency in the supply chain, enhance security measures, and encourage greater information sharing.
02.27.2008	At every available legislative opportunity, Rep. Dave Reichert voted to extend the state sales tax deduction during the 109th Congress. Reichert’s dedication to ensuring that Washington State taxpayers' interests are represented hasn't stopped with votes. Reichert first cosponsored legislation to make the deduction permanent (H.R. 519, the Permanent Sales Tax Deduction Act of 2005) on July 26, 2005. Even after the House had done its part by passing the legislation and it became clear that the Senate was going to allow it to get caught up in politics, Reichert continued his advocacy, pushing leadership and Chairman Thomas to understand the deduction’s importance to Washington State. Just this week he again joined other Members of the Washington State Congressional delegation as they reiterated their continued support for the state sales tax deduction’s extension in a letter to Speaker Hastert and Chairman Thomas. Congressman Reichert will return in November, ready to push Chairman Thomas and Speaker Hastert on this issue once again to ensure that Washington State taxpayers' don't suffer because of Senate inaction.
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, detailed the comprehensive FEMA reform legislation he originally introduced in the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006 that was included in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for FY07, H.R. 5441, which passed the House today, 412-6. This emergency management reform legislation that the House and Senate agreed upon represents a bi-partisan, bi-cameral commitment to a comprehensive 21st Century approach to emergency management. It is the broadest reform to the Department of Homeland Security since Congress created the Department. “The idea of fixing FEMA has been on the forefront of the American consciousness since Hurricane Katrina last year--in fact, if you Google the term ‘FEMA Reform’ about 2 million hits will pop up,�? Chairman Reichert said. “Following the disastrous response to Hurricane Katrina, Congress owed it to the American people to respond to subsequent threats with an overwhelming capability that draws on the best of our entire country. Congress is often criticized for failing to act in the best interests of Americans. Partisan bickering is often the reason given for inaction. However, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, Congress acted with due diligence and in good faith to provide real reform of emergency response capabilities in this country. "Chairman Reichert was the driving force behind this legislation," Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Peter King said. "Without his leadership and 30 years of law enforcement experience, these comprehensive reforms never would have been possible." Chairman Reichert continued, “Some pushed for the immediate inclusion of a new $3-4 billion grant program for emergency communications. As the Chairman of the Emergency Preparedness Committee and the author of the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act, I held four hearings on this issue and listened to countless hours of testimony. What I heard was that before we throw more money at the problem, we have to establish standards and ensure that states have Statewide Interoperable Communication Plans in place. An emergency communications grant program will be necessary following the implementation of a set of national standards and the completion of the baseline assessment of emergency communications needs. However, to establish one prior to enacting these reforms would be premature and fiscally irresponsible. “I will continue to exercise oversight on emergency response capabilities in this country, and will continue to work in a bi-partisan way to ensure that needs are addressed and that Americans are protected. Protecting Americans should always rise above politics. As one of the principal authors of the compromise, I can say with certainty that due to the efforts of all those at the negotiating table, we have now given FEMA the tools and autonomy it needs in order to provide coordinated, effective and timely emergency response in this country.�? In order to bring this legislation to the House floor, Chairman Reichert navigated the jurisdictions of four different House Committees, worked in a bi-partisan way to garner support from Members on both sides of the aisle, and worked across the Capitol with his colleagues in the Senate to garner support for the legislation in the upper body as well. The “Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006�?: · Elevates the standing of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) within the Department of Homeland Security by promoting the Administrator of FEMA to the level of Deputy Secretary and requires that the Administrator possess a demonstrated ability in and knowledge of emergency management and homeland security and at least five years of executive leadership and management experience; · Directs the Administrator to serve as the principal advisor to the President, the Homeland Security Council, and the Secretary of Homeland Security for all matters relating to emergency management and permits the President to designate the Administrator as a member of the Cabinet in the event of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters; · Restores the nexus between emergency preparedness and response by transferring the personnel, assets, components, programs, and liabilities of the Directorate of Preparedness as of June 1, 2006 to FEMA; · Provides statutory protections to FEMA, like those provided to the U.S. Coast Guard by: (1) maintaining FEMA as a distinct entity within the Department; (2) preventing the transfer of FEMA authorities, functions, personnel, assets and funds; and (3) limiting the reprogramming and transfer of FEMA’s funds; · Establishes robust Regional Offices, Regional Advisory Councils, and multi-agency Regional Strike Teams to ensure effective coordination and integration of regional preparedness, protection, response, mitigation, and recovery activities with State, local, and tribal governments, emergency response providers, emergency managers, and other stakeholders; · Clarifies the chain of command during the Federal response to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters by prohibiting the Principal Federal Official (PFO) from directing or replacing the incident command structure at an incident and by limiting the PFO’s authority over Federal and State officials, including the Federal Coordinating Officer; · Directs the Department to release its Federal catastrophic emergency plan and provides guidelines and funding for State, local, and tribal governments to develop catastrophic mass evacuations plans; and · Establishes a Chief Medical Officer to coordinate DHS’ activities related to medical preparedness and response, bio-surveillance and detection, and other medical and public health issues. Subtitle B – Personnel Reforms and Emergency Management Capabilities Chapter 1 – Federal Emergency Management Agency Personnel · This Chapter amends Title V of the U.S. Code by adding a new Chapter 101 – Federal Emergency Management Agency Personnel. Among other things, the new Chapter 101: · Provides the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) a number of tools for rebuilding FEMA’s professional and reserve workforces, including a strategic human capital plan, recruitment and retention bonuses, and professional development and education; · Establishes a Goldwater-Nichols-like Homeland Security Rotation Program for employees of the Department to broaden their knowledge through exposure to other components of the Department and build professional relationships and contacts among Departmental employees; · Establishes a Homeland Security Education Program to provide graduate-level educational opportunities for senior Federal officials and selected State and local officials with homeland security and emergency management responsibilities; · Requires the FEMA Administrator to establish and implement a Surge Capacity Force for deploying individuals to respond to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters; Chapter 2 – Emergency Management Capabilities · This Chapter develops specific Federal, State, and local capabilities necessary for managing disasters of all types, such as: · Requiring States to prepare Catastrophic Incident Annexes to their State Emergency Management Plans that are consistent with Catastrophic Incident Annex of the National Response Plan; · Establishes Federal and regional emergency support and response teams; · Authorizes the Urban Search and Rescue System and the Metropolitan Medical Response System; · Establishes a pre-positioned equipment program to pre-position standardized emergency equipment across the country; and · Authorizes FEMA to disclose evacuee information to law enforcement agencies to track sex offenders. Subtitle C – Comprehensive Preparedness · Subtitle C establishes an all hazard national preparedness goal and system for bringing direction, professional expertise, and accountability to Federal, State, and local preparedness activities. Responsibility for managing disasters is vested jointly between the Federal and State governments. This subtitle codifies major elements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 8 on national preparedness. Components of the national preparedness system include: A national advisory council of state and local professionals; National planning scenarios; Target capabilities or recommended preparedness levels; Training and exercises; A comprehensive assessment system and remedial action program; and Federal preparedness requirements. Subtitle D – Emergency Communications · This subtitle amends the Homeland Security Act by adding a new Title XVIII—Emergency Communications. Among other things, the new Title XVIII: · Elevates the importance of emergency communications within the Department by establishing an Office of Emergency Communications and a Director for Emergency Communications, who – along with the Directors of the National Communications System and the National Cyber Security Division – will report to the Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity and Communications; · Consolidates the Department’s non-science and technology aspects of emergency communications, including the SAFECOM Program, the Integrated Wireless Network, and the Interoperable Communications Technical Assistance Program, and clarifies that the Science and Technology Directorate should focus its responsibilities on standards and the research, development, testing, and evaluation of emergency communications technologies; · Requires a National Emergency Communications Plan that sets goals and timeframes for: (1) supporting and promoting the ability of emergency response providers and relevant government officials to continue to communicate in the event of a catastrophic loss of local and regional emergency communications services; and (2) ensuring, accelerating, and attaining interoperable emergency communications; · Requires the Director to conduct a nationwide baseline assessment of emergency communications needs and to submit periodic assessments to Congress on the Department’s progress in achieving the goals of, and carrying out its new responsibilities, under Title XVIII; · Makes the use by State, local, and tribal governments of homeland security assistance administered by the Department for emergency communications contingent on Department-certified Statewide Interoperable Communication Plans and the development and promulgation of national voluntary consensus standards for emergency communications capabilities; · Establishes Regional Emergency Communications Coordination Working Groups in each FEMA region to ensure effective coordination and integration of regional emergency communications capabilities; and · Establishes an Emergency Communications Preparedness Center to serve as the focal point for Federal interagency efforts and to coordinate the development of the Federal aspects of the National Communications Plan. Subtitle E – Stafford Act Amendments · Subtitle E improves existing disaster relief authorities by providing the President additional program flexibility, financial incentives to control costs, and by addressing unique aspects of catastrophic disasters. The subtitle maintains the primacy of State governments and the supporting role of Federal assistance under the Stafford Act. Among other things, this subtitle: Requires national disaster recovery and housing strategies to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of federal agencies and other organizations during large scale disasters; Provides the President additional flexibilities under the individual assistance program to limit the excessive use of trailers in future disasters; Increases flexibility and imposes a total assistance cap on mitigation programs; Allows the President to appoint a multi-state Federal Coordinating Officer; Requires the development of capabilities necessary to meet the needs of individuals with disabilities; Requires FEMA to develop a voluntary family registry and locator system and to coordinate with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in the Center’s development of a National Emergency Child Locator Center; Authorizes the President to provide transportation assistance to return evacuees to their residences; Creates a housing pilot program to reduce the need for large scale trailer parks; and Creates a public assistance pilot program to create financial incentives to reduce total costs, prevent fraud, and expedite completion of two of the most expensive aspects of federal disaster assistance: debris removal and the reconstruction of public facilities. Subtitle F – Prevention of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse · Subtitle F seeks to reduce disaster expenditures by utilizing competitive pre-disaster contracts as much as possible, limiting the use of sole source or non-competitive contracts in the immediate aftermath of a disaster, and limiting the number of subcontractor levels in disaster contracts. · Subtitle F provides greater accountability against fraud and abuse by developing internal management controls, fraud prevention training, and allowing the inspectors general of other federal agencies to use a portion of their disaster relief funds for oversight activities. Subtitle G – Authorization of Appropriations · The legislation increases authorization levels for a select few programs and FEMA’s core operating budget: Urban Search and Rescue increases by $20 million for FY08. Metropolitan Medical Response increases by $30 million for FY08. Emergency Management Performance Grant increases by $175 million for FY08. Emergency Management Assistance Compact authorized at $4 million for FY08. FEMA’s two operating accounts increase by 10% per year for 3 years.
02.27.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, was named to the House-Senate Conference Committee for the House-passed SAFE Port Act, which Chairman Reichert co-sponsored. Chairman Reichert joins Washington Senator Patty Murray as a conferee in representing Washington State’s interests in the legislation. The Conference Committee is meeting today to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of the legislation. The final version of the bill is scheduled to be voted on tomorrow.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured $16,935,000 in the Defense Conference Report, H. Rpt. 109-676, for local Department of Defense (DOD) projects. The projects are contained in the conference report which the House considered on the floor early this week. “Right here in the Puget Sound area we have many companies that are producing cutting-edge technologies that are helping our military effort. I am pleased that not only was I able to secure vital funding for a broad spectrum of worthy projects and pursuits but that much of it also came back to this area, which will in turn create local jobs,” said Congressman Reichert. “Among these projects is a revolutionary bandage that has the potential to significantly reduce rapid blood loss in the field, potentially saving the lives of troops and first responders injured in the line of duty. Another project will increase trauma readiness at the Madigan Army Medical Center, ensuring our troops have trained medical professionals ready to provide necessary care. All of the projects are valuable and I am proud I was able to secure these funds. When we put together our funding priorities, I wanted it to represent two of my highest priorities – providing healthcare and the latest technology for our troops. I’m pleased that those priorities are well-represented in the projects here.” “This initiative will fund the research and development of new and innovative non-lethal engagement systems for both military and law enforcement agencies,” said Alex Löng, Managing Agent for Business Development and RD&E at Stellar Photonics, located in Redmond. “As a former Sheriff, Congressman Reichert’s insight into the needs of law enforcement is crucial to understanding the benefits of directed energy as a viable alternative to the conventional non-lethal weapons of today.” “Outdoor Research is thankful for the support from the Congressman and the rest of the Washington Delegation for their efforts on our behalf to keep Marines’ hands protected from potential injuries due to excessive heat and flames threats caused by IED’s and other explosives in the theater,” Dan Nordstrom, Owner and President of Outdoor Research, said. “Cascade Designs deeply appreciates the Congressman and the Washington State Congressional Delegation for understanding and meeting the specific clean water and snowshoe needs of the USMC and for promoting the use of our company’s Seattle-built military combat snowshoes and MSR MIOX Individual Water Purification Systems,” said Pete Haggerty, Vice President at Cascade Designs. Projects included in H. Rpt. 109-676: $2,700,000 Plasma Acoustic Dazzler Denial Systems Initiative (PADDS) - Stellar Photonics $1,000,000 Fuel Cell Hybrid Generation System-Ramgen Technology – Ramgen $1,000,000 Eyewear Display for Battlefield Operations – Microvision. $1,560,000 Durable Illumination Aiming Laser-Green (DIAL-100G) - B.E. Meyers $1,625,000 Madigan Army Medical Center Trauma Readiness - Tacoma Trauma Trust $1,700,000 Mid-Infrared Semiconductor Laser Technology - Aculight $1,500,000 Marine Corps Flame Resistant Contact Glove - Outdoor Research $1,650,000 MIOX On-the-Move Individual Water Purification System - Cascade Design $1,000,000 Modular Military Steel Traction Combat Snowshoe - Cascade Design $1,400,000 Ultra-High Resolution Display for Army Medicine - eMagin $1,800,000 Fibinogen Bandages for Military Use - Stop the Bleeding
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) co-sponsored and early this week voted to pass the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, H.R. 3127. The Act amends the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 and directs President Bush to impose sanctions on the government of Sudan as well as freeze the assets of anyone responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in Sudan. “It was reported today that the administration is considering using sanctions and no fly zones to force Sudan to agree to a United Nations peacekeeping force,” Congressman Reichert said. “I want to lend my voice in support of a tougher position. The United States has a moral obligation to lead the global efforts to end genocide and we need to be doing more. People are dying and we cannot stand by idly without acting. I applaud the President’s announcement earlier this month of a special envoy, but the diplomacy should be backed up by a strong stance that we are not going to allow these people to continue to suffer. The U.S. should go to the U.N. Security Council and request that punitive sanctions be imposed against Sudan.” Congressman Reichert continued, “I cosponsored, voted for and Congress passed the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act to add additional pressure to the Sudanese government to address the genocide. The will of the President, the Congress and the American people is represented in these combined actions. Ending genocide will take a combined, focused effort. The will of the international community to end genocide in Darfur must be demonstrated as well.” In August, Congressman Reichert was acknowledged for his efforts on behalf of the people of Darfur by the Genocide Intervention Network. Congressman Reichert was given an ‘A’ grade for his efforts stop the genocide of thousands in the Darfur region of Sudan and recognized as a leader in Congress on the issue. Congressman Reichert is the only Representative from Washington State to receive an ‘A’.
02.20.2008	Chairman Dave Reichert (WA-08) of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, released the following statement upon House passage of the Promoting Antiterrorism Capabilities Through International Cooperation Act, H.R. 4942, today: “In the just over two weeks since the five-year anniversary of 9/11, the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations have taken center stage again as a principle guide to our Nation’s homeland security measures. In its report, the 9/11 Commission recommended, that ‘the United States should engage other nations in developing a comprehensive coalition strategy against Islamist terrorism. There are several multilateral institutions in which such issues should be addressed. But the most important policies should be discussed and coordinated in a flexible contact group of leading coalition governments.’ There’s no question that one of these important policies is the development of homeland security technologies that keep our country safe. H.R. 4942 implements this 9/11 recommendation by applying it to the homeland security technology we develop to help our Nation’s first responders prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism, natural disasters, and other emergencies. “The international cooperation enabled by H.R. 4942 will give our Nation access to a worldwide library of lessons learned and scientific expertise that will no doubt strengthen our own homeland security measures. It is our duty, as allies united under a common purpose to defeat terrorism, that we join forces in the laboratory to combat our shared adversaries and meet our similar technology needs. H.R. 4942 incorporates the wisdom of the 9/11 Commission and the BIRD Foundation partnership between the United States and Israel to strengthen our hand in developing technologies that will make us all – the United States and its allies alike – safer and more secure.” H.R. 4942 is modeled after a partnership created by Congress in 1977 between the United States and Israel called the Bi-national Industrial Research and Development Foundation, called the “BIRD” Foundation. The mission of the BIRD Foundation is to stimulate, promote and support industrial research and development of mutual benefit to both nations. In 29 years, the BIRD Foundation has invested $225 million in 690 cooperative research and development projects mutually beneficial to the United States and Israel. The BIRD model serves as a solid foundation for international cooperation in homeland security research and development.
02.20.2008	Chairman Dave Reichert (WA-08), of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, announced today that port security funds he has advocated for were awarded to the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma. $7,416,539 was awarded for the Port of Seattle and $2.5 million for the Port of Tacoma under the FY 2006 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP). In addition, $2,931,196 was awarded under the Transit Security Grant Program, with $581,196 for intracity rail security, $350,000 for intracity bus security and $2,000,000 for ferry security. The State of Washington was also awarded $1,756,000 under the Chemical Sector Buffer Zone Program. For the Port of Seattle, these funds represent a $200,000 increase over last year’s allotment and are part of a 5-year total of $40 million. “The security of Washington’s ports determines not only our personal safety and well-being, but also our economic security and stability,” said Chairman Reichert. “I am pleased to announce that the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma have been awarded almost $10 million in port security grants. This funding is vital and I will continue to advocate for more money to protect our ports and infrastructure from the threats that they face.” Chairman Reichert continued, “I will also continue to work with local authorities to strengthen our ports. The funds announced today will be important for infrastructure protection at the ports, to support the implementation of Buffer Zone Plans as well as for rail, bus and ferry security. Earlier this Spring, I worked with the local longshoremen to identify areas where additional training would assist them in securing our port facilities and I inserted two amendments to the SAFE Ports Act that specifically came from recommendations they gave me. I’ve continued looking for ways to secure our local port facilities, which led me to become a co-sponsor of the SAFE Ports Act, which would provide $400 million for the Port Security Grant Program and would result in a significant increase for the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma. These funds are essential and I will keep doing what I can to secure them.” The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Infrastructure Protection Program (IPP) is an important component of the Department’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the security of America’s critical infrastructure. This program implements the objectives addressed in a series of laws, strategy documents, plans and Homeland Security Presidential Directives (HSPDs). Of particular significance are the National Preparedness Goal (the Goal) and its associated work products, the National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP), and the National Strategy for Maritime Security (NSMS). The purpose of the FY 2006 IPP is to strengthen the nation’s ability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies that could impact this country’s critical infrastructure.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, this week voted for three major pieces of legislation that will help increase border security. The three bills, which all passed the U.S. House of Representatives, were developed after Chairmen of various House Committees held more than 20 field hearings in the months of July and August to examine the issue of border security and identify ways to improve our nation’s current immigration system. Chairman Reichert held a field hearing in Bellingham on issues affecting the Northern Border. The three bills passed by the House were the Immigration Law Enforcement Act, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act, and the Community Protection Act. “These three bills can make an immediate impact in securing our borders and securing our nation,” said Chairman Reichert. “Through increased enforcement efforts along our borders, we have seen a sizeable decrease in the amount of illegal immigrants crossing our borders over the past several months, but there is more work to be done. Too many illegal immigrants are able to cross our borders and too many criminals are able to exploit our immigration laws. By passing these bills, Congress is taking the next important step in ensuring that our nation and its borders are secure.” Congressman Reichert continued, “It is vitally important that we implement immigration reform. This will allow us to focus valuable resources on those we know to be a threat and in this country with the intent to harm, rather than individuals who are here to better their lives and that of their families. We need a policy that strengthens our borders and protects this nation, but that also makes it simpler for good people to become Americans. This Congress has passed many bills to strengthen our borders, which is priority one. The next step is to provide a way for undocumented immigrants to register and become lawful, contributing citizens. There must be penalties for individuals who’ve violated American immigration laws and for those who employ them. We must also encourage undocumented individuals to “get right” with our government and register.” Highlights of the three bills include: H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act of 2006 Detaining Dangerous Aliens Who Are Unable to be Deported. The Community Protection Act ensures that dangerous illegal immigrants who cannot be deported cannot likewise be released into society. Many illegal immigrants being detained by the Department of Homeland Security are unable to be deported for a variety of reasons. Yet under current law, DHS cannot detain these illegal immigrants for more than six months, even if the individual has committed a violent crime or represents a threat to national security. As a result, hundreds of criminals are released back onto our streets. This legislation allows such illegal immigrants to be detained for periods of six months at a time, and then allows for the period of detention to be renewed. It also provides for judicial review. Expediting the Removal of Alien Criminals. The Community Protection Act allows the Department of Homeland Security to use the same expedited procedures available for the removal of aggravated felons to remove other criminal aliens who are not permanent residents and are otherwise ineligible for relief. At the present time, these aliens are placed in lengthy removal proceedings even though they are not eligible for any relief. Detaining and Deporting Alien Gang Members. The Community Protection Act toughens laws against alien gang members. Under the bill, an illegal immigrant who is found to be part of a criminal street gang would be subject to detention, deportation, and would be ineligible for receiving asylum or temporary protected status. H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006 Reaffirming the Authority of State and Local Law Enforcement to Enforce Immigration Laws. The Immigration Law Enforcement Act reaffirms the inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to voluntarily investigate, identify, apprehend, arrest, detain, and transfer to federal custody illegal immigrants. Many state and local law enforcement officers want to assist in the enforcement of immigration laws, and they can play a valuable role in assisting federal law immigration officers. Increasing Prosecutions of Alien Smugglers. United States attorney offices do not have uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smuggling offenses, and many of these offices face a tremendous workload and are unable to prosecute a sufficient number of alien smuggling cases. As a result, our Border Patrol agents see many of the smugglers they apprehend go free. The Immigration Law Enforcement Act authorizes an increase in the number of attorneys to prosecute alien smuggling cases, and expresses Congress’ sense that the attorney general should establish uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smugglers. Imposing “Catch & Return” Instead of “Catch & Release.” The Immigration Law Enforcement Act helps close loopholes that have hurt the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to enforce immigration laws. For example, an injunction dating from the El Salvadoran civil war of the 1980s prevents DHS from placing Salvadorans in expedited removal proceedings, even though the civil war has long since ended. DHS uses expedited removal proceedings to quickly remove illegal immigrants who are apprehended along the Southern border, in order to end the policy of “catch and release,” where illegal immigrants have been released into the general population while they await deportation proceedings. Many criminal gangs have exploited these loopholes, which this bill would help close. H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006 Criminalizing the Construction and Financing of Border Tunnels. The Border Tunnel Prevention Act enacts criminal penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment for individuals who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. In addition, individuals who recklessly permit the construction of such a tunnel on their own property are subject to imprisonment of up to 10 years. Individuals caught using such a tunnel to smuggle aliens, contraband, drugs, weapons, or terrorists are subject to twice the penalty that would have otherwise been imposed.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) today said the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006 (H.R. 4844), which the House passed today, will help prevent voter fraud and ensure that only eligible voters cast ballots. “The right to vote is one of our most cherished rights, and an important guarantor of our freedoms,” Rep. Reichert said. “As such, it’s important for federal, state, and local government to ensure that the voting process is free of fraud and misconduct. The Federal Election Integrity Act will help preserve the integrity of the voting process by ensuring that only those who are eligible to vote are allowed to do so.” H.R. 4844, the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006, will require voters to present photo identification at polling places, beginning in 2008. Beginning in 2010, voters will be required to provide photo identification at polling places that proves they are citizens of the United States. The act requires states to provide the necessary photo identification free of charge to individuals who cannot afford to pay for it and authorizes funds to reimburse states for the cost of these programs. Highlights of the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006: Effective 2008, voters will be required to provide photo ID. Effective 2010, voters will be required to provide a photo ID that could not have been obtained without proof of citizenship. Effective 2008, voters who arrive at polling stations without the required ID, will be given a provisional ballot and 48 hours to present a qualifying ID. Effective 2008, people voting by mail must include a photocopy of photo ID. Bill requires States to set up programs to distribute the ID’s and provide them at no cost to the indigent. Funds are authorized to reimburse States for the cost of providing free ID’s to the indigent.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) nominated Barbara Drennen, Founder of the Pediatric Interim Care Center in Kent, Wash. as an “Angel in Adoption” for her efforts on behalf of over 2,000 infants born addicted to drugs. Drennen will be honored at an awards ceremony today in Washington, DC. The “Angel in Adoption” award honors individuals and organizations who are truly the unsung heroes of adoption and foster care. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) gathered nominations from 185 Members of Congress. “Barbara Drennen's passion is providing a safe and healthy start in life for newborns suffering the effects of prenatal drug exposure,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. ”As Executive Director and cofounder of the Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC) in Kent, Washington, she heads the nation's only newborn nursery dedicated to specialized 24-hour care of the littlest victims of drug abuse. “Barbara came to this mission in the late 1980s as a provider of in-home care for medically fragile infants in the state foster care system. In response to the large number of infants exposed to crack cocaine, she designed a program of therapeutic care to protect these often fragile and premature babies through their first weeks of life. At the urging of local hospitals, Barbara designed a nonprofit center to provide this care on a larger scale. Founded in 1990, PICC has brought more than 2,000 newborns safely through the hazards of withdrawal. These children, many of them now teenagers, are Barbara's greatest accomplishment and living proof that early intervention works. Two of my own grandchildren were adopted from PICC after being born to drug-addicted mothers. Both babies were weaned from their respective addictions to meth and heroin and are now healthy and thriving. My family is deeply grateful to Barbara.” PICC completed a new home for its program in April 2006, doubling its capacity and providing a haven for drug-exposed newborns in Washington State for decades to come. In addition to leading PICC, Barbara has been a voice of advocacy for drug-exposed infants. She spearheaded legislation in Washington State requiring that newborns with positive toxicology screens for illicit drugs be reported to the Washington State Department of Health. Barbara is a resource for families, the media, the medical community, legislators, social service agencies, law enforcement officials and caregivers. Through her books, videos, classes and 24-hour information line, she has positively impacted the lives of thousands of drug-exposed infants outside of her own community. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes; and to eliminating the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic need of a family.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the deployment of a U.S. special envoy to Darfur to revive the diplomatic effort to end the genocide that has already claimed the lives of over 400,000 people. President Bush named Andrew Natsios, a former administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, as his special envoy for Darfur in a speech to the U.N. General Assembly today. “The United States has a moral obligation to lead the global efforts to end genocide,” said Congressman Reichert. “When President Reagan ratified the Genocide Convention in 1988, it was a promise to the world that the United States would not stand idly by in the face of genocide. It is my hope that today’s announcement represents a renewed commitment by the United States to do all that it can to end the genocide in Darfur.” Congressman Reichert continued, “Sudan has thus far refused to give its consent for the United Nations peacekeeping force to take over the Darfur operation. Global leaders and the international community must act before September 30th, urging the AU (African Union) to renew its mandate until a UN force can take over. Congress must pass the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act to add additional pressure to the Sudanese government to address the genocide. Right now, the House and Senate are resolving differences in each body’s version of the bill. It is imperative that we reach an agreement immediately and bring the compromise to the floor. In this instance, delay means death or displacement from their homes for thousands of people in Darfur.” Congressman Reichert was given an ‘A’ grade for his efforts on behalf of the people of Darfur by the Genocide Intervention Network in August. Congressman Reichert is the only Representative from Washington State to receive an ‘A’. Since the beginning of 2005, there have been four important legislative opportunities for members of Congress to help protect Darfurians and Congressman Reichert has supported each effort. Reichert is recognized as a leader in Congress on the issue.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was acknowledged for his efforts on behalf of the people of Darfur by the Genocide Intervention Network today. Congressman Reichert was given an ‘A’ grade for his efforts stop the genocide of thousands in the Darfur region of Sudan and recognized as a leader in Congress on the issue. Congressman Reichert is the only Representative from Washington State to receive an ‘A’. “Whenever a group of people becomes the target of genocide, the world should act to stop the massacre,” Rep. Reichert said. “To date, millions have fled their homes and hundreds of thousands have been killed. The plight of the people of Darfur is one the U.S. Congress is honor-bound to take up. My actions on behalf of Darfurians are only a small part of what must be a worldwide effort on their behalf.” Since the beginning of 2005, there have been four important legislative opportunities for members of Congress to help protect Darfurians. Members were rewarded for sponsorships, co-sponsorships and votes in favor of these measures. The Darfur Genocide Accountability Act (H.R. 1424) was introduced on March 17, 2005, by Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ). The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act (H.R. 3127) was introduced on June 30, 2005, by Rep. Henry Hyde (R-IL). The Darfur Genocide Accountability Act preceded The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. The former gave way to the latter when the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act was introduced. House Resolution 723 was introduced on March 14th, 2006, by Representative Tom Lantos (D-CA). The resolution is still pending. House Resolution 4939 made emergency supplemental appropriations for the 2006 fiscal year. Rep. Michael Capuano (D-MA) offered an amendment to this resolution requiring Congress to increase funding for African Union peacekeepers by $50 million dollars. You may find more information here www.DarfurScores.org and here www.GenocideIntervention.net.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement in response to the shooting at the Jewish Federation offices in downtown Seattle this afternoon: “The services the Jewish Federation provides ensure the continued good health, prosperity and peace of our entire community in Seattle and the Northwest. The Jewish Federation serves not only the Jewish community, but all of us. Their contributions are selfless, substantial and unique. I am grateful to them for their work and am honored to support them as a Member of Congress. It is a tremendous tragedy that those in our community who work to better the lives of others have become the target of deadly violence today. “I am deeply saddened by the loss of life and by this attack. Our community was attacked by someone wishing to wreak havoc and violence among good and peaceful citizens, causing the loss of one life and leaving many people injured. On Sunday, I attended a rally with thousands of Israel’s supporters that the Jewish Federation sponsored. We stood together in support of Israel and its quest for peace. I stand with them today in their sorrow and grief. I pray for the speedy healing of the wounded, peace for the victims, their families and for all of us affected by today’s senseless violence.”
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), co-sponsor of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (H.R. 4472), successfully worked to get language reauthorizing the National Police Athletic League (PAL) program included in the bill. PAL is a youth crime prevention program that utilizes educational, athletic and recreational activities to create trust and understanding between police officers and youth that has been proven to lower crime. President Bush signed the bill into law today. “PAL is a youth crime prevention program that creates trust and understanding between cops and kids,” Rep. Reichert said. “It is based on the understanding that young people - if they are reached early enough - can develop strong positive attitudes toward police officers and gain the skills needed to achieve success throughout their lives.” Rep. Reichert continued, “PAL Chapters across the nation serve approximately 2 million children between the ages of 5 and 18 in a wide variety of activities. Studies have shown that when PAL is introduced into neighborhoods, those neighborhoods experience a significant drop in juvenile crime, including a 44% reduction during the peak after school hours between 3:00 pm and 8:00 pm. PAL programs are one of the most effective weapons we have to prevent juvenile crime, gangs and other violence. PALs also have a special niche because they foster an enduring relationship of trust and respect between law enforcement and kids, a relationship that is not easy to achieve. We have been working on this legislation for quite some time and when we heard it could be included in the larger bill we jumped at the opportunity. This is a double victory.” “All PAL chapters nationwide are grateful to Congressman Reichert for his sponsorship of the original PAL reauthorization (H.R. 4005),” said Sergeant Reid Johnson of the King County Sheriff’s Office and Board Member of the Greater King County Police Activities League PAL Chapter. “We know it’s been a difficult struggle for him to find a way to make this happen and we are all grateful that he’s kept at it and got us the money. This is going to positively impact the kids in King County. PAL wouldn’t have survived without Congressman Reichert’s work to get this funding.” Rep. Reichert sponsored the bipartisan National Police Athletic/Activities League (PAL) Youth Enrichment Reauthorization Act of 2005 (H.R. 4005) in October of 2005 and garnered 74 co-sponsors for the bill. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 authorizes $16 million per year in assistance to National PAL and the 350 local PAL chapters around the country. This funding will also help establish 250 (50 per year) new PAL chapters and will provide support for the annual Youth Leadership Conference. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, also does the following: Ø Improve the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Program to ensure that sex offenders register – and keep current – where they reside, work, and attend school; Ø Create the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website to search for sex offender information in each community; Ø Require states to notify each other when sex offenders move from one state to another; Ø Increase penalties for using the Internet for the sexual exploitation of children; and Ø Increase law enforcement’s ability to combat child pornography.
02.20.2008	Following the passage of his first major piece of legislation yesterday, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, immediately refocused his subcommittee on the issue of emergency medical preparedness today, chairing a hearing entitled, “Is Our Nation Prepared for a Public Health Disaster?” The bi-partisan legislation Chairman Reichert drafted following his first series of hearings on the state of emergency communications, the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006 (H.R. 5852), overwhelming passed the House by a vote of 414 - 2 on July 25th. “I can think of few issues more problematic or important than the state of emergency medical preparedness and response in the United States,” said Chairman Reichert. “That is why today’s hearing will be the first in a series of hearings examining our nation’s emergency medical care crisis. From pre-hospital treatment to mass decontamination and mortuary services, there is no question about the state of our nation’s readiness to handle a surge of sick or injured persons during a public health emergency – we are neither prepared nor capable of responding. “As the tragic events in New Orleans and other communities along the Gulf Coast made clear, this is a real problem. The hospital and public health infrastructure currently in place in most areas of the country is barely adequate to get through a busy Saturday night in the emergency room, let alone treat the thousands of sick and injured resulting from a catastrophic act of terrorism, a natural disaster or other emergency. The potential threat of a mass trauma event from a weapon of mass destruction or pandemic influenza outbreak would quickly overwhelm our already over-extended emergency medical system. “Homeland security must include preparing our nation for public health emergencies. However, given the multiple problems facing our nation’s emergency medical system, can we honestly say that America could cope with the immediate medical needs of thousands of people injured by an act of terrorism? Are we prepared to handle the needs of hundreds of thousands, if not millions, injured by a weapon of mass destruction? Quite frankly, the answer is no.” According to recent reports released by the Institute of Medicine and the American College of Emergency Physicians, emergency medicine in the United States is at its breaking point. Emergency rooms are dwindling and overcrowded. Ambulances are routinely diverted. Key specialists in neurosurgery and trauma care are often unavailable. Emergency rooms often lack the equipment and supplies needed to treat patients, especially children. Based on the success of the first series of hearings on emergency communications, Chairman Reichert’s subcommittee will replicate the process in the future – that is, pick a problematic policy issue, hold hearings examining a variety of perspectives on that topic, and then move bi-partisan legislation based on the record established by those hearings through the legislative process. Chairman Reichert’s subcommittee will focus its attention on a number of medical preparedness and response issues, including: · The extent of collaboration between the Departments of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services; · Where the National Disaster Medical System should be located.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, successfully ushered his first major piece of legislation through the House today. Chairman Reichert’s bill, the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006 (H.R. 5852), will improve emergency communications in the event of a major incident, such as a terrorist attack or natural disaster. Chairman Reichert’s bi-partisan bill has four Republican co-sponsors and six Democrat co-sponsors. It overwhelmingly passed the House 414 - 2. “Until the events of September 11, 2001, many people simply assumed that first responders from different disciplines and jurisdictions could communicate with one another,” Chairman Reichert explained. “Unfortunately, that was not the case then and as demonstrated by the inadequate response to Hurricane Katrina, that is not the case now. It is intolerable that our nation’s law enforcement, fire service, and emergency medical services personnel still confront many of the same emergency communication problems I did as a rookie cop in 1972. Today in passing this bill, Congress sent a message to our nation’s first responders that we support them in their efforts to protect us. This legislation goes above and beyond the recommendations of the 9/11 commission regarding interoperability and I’m glad I was a part of fulfilling one of their recommendations.” "This bill will help save lives, and I thank Chairman Reichert for his leadership on this issue," said U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (NY), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security. "Without him, this important piece of legislation never would have been possible." Chairman Reichert has approached this problem in a bi-partisan way. Chairman Reichert and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), have conducted four hearings on the state of emergency communications and jointly drafted legislation from the testimony they heard. The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006, originally approved as part of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Hurricane Katrina "Lessons Learned" legislation, takes the necessary steps to help ensure that our nation’s first responders are able to communicate during an emergency. This bill will improve both operable and interoperable communications in the event of an emergency. This legislation goes above and beyond the recommendations of the 9/11 commission regarding interoperability. The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006: Establishes an accountable, senior-level official at the Department of Homeland Security to oversee the Department’s disparate activities and problems related to emergency communications; Mandates a National Emergency Communications Report to recommend goals and timeframes for the achievement of redundant, sustainable, and interoperable emergency communications systems; Requires a baseline assessment of current emergency communications capabilities and periodic assessments on progress in filling in existing gaps; Accelerates the development of national standards for emergency communications equipment; Requires state and local governments to establish effective Statewide Interoperable Communications Plans before being able to use DHS grant funds for emergency communications; and Facilitates coordination on emergency communications by establishing regional working groups comprised of federal, state and local officials, first responders, and other relevant stakeholders; and Elevates the importance of emergency communications within the Department of Homeland Security, enhances accountability and resources to ensure first responders on the ground can communicate with one another.
02.20.2008	U.S. House Majority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today issued the following statement after the House passed the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act (H.R. 5852), authored by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA): “In the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and hurricanes Katrina and Rita, it is critical that our emergency response systems are working properly to protect the American people. Improving the ability of first responders and federal, state, and local agencies to communicate with each other during an emergency is a vital part of making sure our families in harm’s way are safe and secure. Rep. Reichert should be commended for his work to ensure our first responders have the tools they need to continue to keep our nation safe.”
02.20.2008	The House today by a vote of 414-2 passed H.R.5852, the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006, which contains language that was negotiated by the Science Committee. The bill is designed to improve the ability of emergency responders to communicate with each other. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to strengthen its efforts to improve emergency communications. The Science Committee had jurisdiction over portions of the bill dealing with research and development, grants to firefighters and development of technical standards. The Science Committee was responsible for a key provision of the bill, which requires local emergency responders who receive federal grants to purchase equipment that meets national voluntary standards for interoperability, meaning that the equipment can be used to communicate with a wide variety of other responders. In past emergencies, response has been hampered when, for example, firefighters could not talk to police or when firefighters from different jurisdictions could not talk to each other. “I am very pleased that my colleague on the Science Committee, Rep. David Reichert, was the lead sponsor of such an important piece of legislation,” Boehlert said. “For first responders to work together effectively during major crisis, they need to be able to talk to each other. This means that their equipment must work properly and there must be a developed set of specific standards. H.R. 5852 will reorganize and strengthen the emergency communications programs at DHS, including in science and technology. The National Institute of Standards and Technology will be a major player in both the development and testing of these standards. As a result, first responders will be both safer and more effective when disaster strikes.”
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) supported raising the annual government-wide contracting goal for service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses from 3% to 7%, a provision of the Veterans Small Business and Memorial Affairs Act of 2006 (H.R. 3082). The bill passed the House today. “This is a good step in supporting our veterans, though we need to be doing so much more,” Congressman Reichert said. “Following their active duty military careers, it’s important that we support our veterans in their next professional endeavors, particularly those who sacrificed so much in service to this country. This bill ensures that all businesses identified as being owned by a disabled veteran are validated as such and that these businesses are given priority in VA (US Department of Veterans Affairs) contracting.” The Veterans Small Business and Memorial Affairs Act of 2006 (H.R. 3082) would: · Require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (the Secretary) to establish annual contracting goals for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into with small businesses owned and controlled by veterans and service-disabled veterans. · Require VA to maintain a database of small businesses owned by veterans and service-disabled veterans and require listing in this database as a condition of participation in VA procurement program. · Require VA to validate the veteran’s disability status and ownership interest in any business listed in the database. · Provide veteran and service-disabled, veteran-owned small businesses priority in VA contracting as well as priority among other “set-aside” groups eligible for preferential treatment under the Small Business Act.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted to support the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (H.R. 5684), which passed the House by a vote of 221-205 today. “Free trade agreements such as this are crucial to the health of Washington State’s economy, where one in three jobs is tied to international trade,” said Congressman Reichert. “Oman has enacted broad economic reforms to open itself to trade and investment and offer opportunities to its citizens. Oman’s political reforms have increased public participation in government, including extending voting rights to all citizens over the age of 21 and appointing women to serve in key government posts. Oman’s strong worker protections are consistent with international standards. As a result, it’s important that the United States honor its promise to enter into a free trade agreement with the nation. “This agreement is about more than free trade. It reinforces U.S. appreciation for Oman’s steadfast support over the last 170 years. Most recently, Oman served as a critical launching pad for missions that helped protect U.S. servicemen in Iraq and Afghanistan. Additionally, agreements such as this were recommended in the 9/11 Commission Report. The report specifically cited Middle Eastern free trade agreements and called for action on a ‘comprehensive U.S. strategy [that] should include economic policies that encourage development, more open societies and opportunities for people to improve the lives of their families and enhance the prospects of their children’s future.’ This agreement is a critical part of the Middle East Free Trade Area initiative, and both the people and the governments of the region will be watching to see how strongly we back our words of support with action. Free trade leads to free nations and free people, and the U.S. must work to expand free trade in a steady and unceasing progression around the globe.” Rep. Reichert is a member of the Trade Working Group and actively worked to garner Members’ support for the agreement. Congressman Reichert also supported these agreements to open free trade around the world: U.S.-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (DR-CAFTA) Congressman Reichert will be working to build support for these agreements as well: U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA) Permanent Normal Trade Relations with Vietnam (PNTR) U.S.-Malaysia Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, introduced the 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006 (H.R. 5852) today. This legislation is the result of four hearings as well as dozens of meetings with first responders and emergency managers from across the country. The House is expected to vote on this legislation Tuesday, July 25. “When Peter King, Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, appointed me Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, I made it my top priority to address the ability of first responders to communicate. After hearing their testimony, it became apparent that legislation was required to address emergency communication operability and interoperability* in this country,” said Rep. Dave Reichert. “It’s a problem that’s plagued the law enforcement community and other first responders since I was a rookie cop. People’s lives are lost every year when we are unable to communicate during an emergency. The whole nation saw this problem during 9/11 and the 9/11 commission made solving this a high priority in its recommendations for Congress. Unfortunately we saw last year when first responders were unable to communicate with emergency managers and the military following Hurricane Katrina that the problem remained unsolved. People languished on rooftops awaiting rescue, and far worse, as a result. “We drafted a bill from the testimony and evidence first responders provided. The bill provides solutions to the problems we heard about again and again. This bill creates an office and manager to oversee all emergency communications in this country. It also requires states to establish emergency communication plans and facilitates the coordination of emergency communication regionally among federal, state and local officials. This bill provides the tools and framework to establish fully interoperable and operable communications nationwide. I am thrilled that even as a freshman we have been able to quickly work in a bipartisan way to create this legislation and get it to the floor of the U.S. House.” * Operability is the ability of communication devices to function when their users require them to and interoperability is the ability for the varied types of communication devices used by all emergency response personnel and various other officials in the event of a disaster to work together, ensuring information is shared in a timely, efficient and effective manner The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006: Holds the person in charge of emergency communications in the Department of Homeland Security accountable; Mandates a National Emergency Communications Report to recommend goals and timeframes for the achievement of redundant, sustainable, and interoperable emergency communications systems; Requires a baseline assessment of current emergency communications capabilities and periodic assessments on progress in filling in existing gaps; Accelerates the development of national standards for emergency communications equipment; Requires state and local governments to establish effective Statewide Interoperable Communications Plans before being able to use DHS grant funds for emergency communications; and Facilitates coordination on emergency communications by establishing regional working groups comprised of federal, state and local officials, first responders, and other relevant stakeholders; and Elevates the importance of emergency communications within the Department of Homeland Security, enhances accountability and resources to ensure first responders on the ground can communicate with one another.
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement after voting today in support of H. Res. 921, to condemn the recent attacks against the State of Israel, hold terrorists and their state-sponsors accountable for such attacks and support Israel's right to defend itself: “Every nation has the right to defend itself from attacks that occur within its borders and against its citizens abroad. The State of Israel has been a nation under siege since its inception, threatened by multiple forces that seek to destroy the country and its people. Neither Hamas nor Hezbollah recognize Israel’s right to exist as a nation. Hamas’ charter calls for the destruction of the state of Israel. Hezbollah was formed by Shi'ite Muslims with the assistance of Iranian Revolutionary Guards specifically to combat the Israeli presence in the region. “The international community has been working to disarm Hezbollah since 2004. However, more must be done as Hezbollah continues to launch unprovoked attacks against Israel. Both Hamas and Hezbollah receive support from Iran and Syria. Iran and Syria must be held accountable for the support they have provided in the form of money and missiles to terrorist organizations. Both countries have an obligation as members of the international community to apply pressure to end Hezbollah attacks. Hamas must return the captured soldiers unharmed to Israel. The U.S. must work with the international community to ensure the implementation of the U.N. Security Council resolution passed unanimously in 2004 calling for the disarmament of Hezbollah, removing all foreign forces from Lebanon and deploying the Lebanese army to secure the border with Israel.”
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted to overturn the President’s veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810) today. Following the vote, Congressman Reichert released the following statement: �?Tonight’s vote is historic, not only because it is a vote to overturn this president’s first veto, but also because it has the potential to directly impact human life. This issue remains the most difficult I have encountered as a Member of Congress. It was with great deliberation and thought that I made the decision to vote to overturn the president’s veto. Changing my position was extremely difficult for me and I did not take it lightly. �?Last year when we first voted on the bill, I was deeply conflicted about the issue. There were no congressional hearings beforehand and the information made available to members of Congress was not adequate in my opinion. As a result, I launched my own investigation to evaluate the subject in a responsible, informed manner. �?I made it a priority to meet with people, groups and organizations on both sides of this issue. I met with people in D.C. and in my District office; in essence, I held my own hearings. I heard from those whose children suffered from a debilitating disease that may be alleviated by stem cell therapies. I met with the parents of snowflake babies who were grateful for the blessing of their children. I also met with people concerned about the ethical questions raised by the issue of using federal tax dollars for research on human embryos. I spoke with my own pastor. I continued the investigation that I began before last year’s vote to today. As a result, I was able to narrow the issue down beyond a lot of the rhetoric to the core issue and I voted to uphold the stem cell bill that both the House and the Senate sent to the President. �?I support in vitro fertilization as a method to help families have children. But not every embryo is used through this method. It is my hope that all remaining frozen embryos be adopted. It is my belief that is ideal. I also believe in the sanctity of human life in all its forms. I understand why many oppose using federal dollars to do research on human embryos. However, not all of these remaining embryos are available for adoption and many are destroyed. Frozen embryos degenerate over time, impairing their ability to survive past the initial stage of development. In that instance, where an embryo is going to die, be destroyed or donated for research, I believe it is preferable that the potential for good -- the potential for life -- come from that embryo. In ensuring those embryos that would otherwise be destroyed be used for research with the intent of saving lives, we honor the living already among us.�? Congressman Reichert has met with the following organizations in consideration of this issue: Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation A “snowflake�? mother from Washington State Representatives and researchers from the University of Washington Representatives from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Representatives from the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) community Representatives from the faith community Bioethics researchers at Children’s Hospital and Regional Medical Center Members of Congress who are medical doctors
02.20.2008	U.S. Representative David G. Reichert has been named as a recipient of the 2006 Thomas Jefferson Award by the International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA). The award honors his commitment to our nation’s economic prosperity and the free enterprise system. It was presented at a July 12th ceremony on Capitol Hill. At the end of each Congress, IFDA presents the Thomas Jefferson Award to Senators and Members of Congress who demonstrate their commitment to increasing opportunity and reducing government regulation through their votes on issues such as reducing taxes, removing trade barriers as well as workplace issues and other economic matters. Their work in the Congress on these issues has helped to ensure the continued health of our nation’s economy. “Throughout the 109th Congress, Representative Reichert cast crucial votes to stimulate economic growth, strengthen family businesses and promote prosperity for the American people. The Thomas Jefferson Awards are our way of recognizing lawmakers who have stood true to the ideals of Thomas Jefferson and have supported policies that strengthen the foodservice distribution industry and the free market system,” said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. “Foodservice distribution is an industry that is fundamental to our economy and touches the life of every American consumer. These awards are our way of acknowledging Members of the 109th Congress who support family-owned businesses, make balanced policy decisions and stand on principles that make our economy stronger.” Recipients of the award supported IFDA’s position on at least 70 percent of 15 House votes deemed critical to the Jeffersonian ideals of free enterprise and the foodservice distribution industry. These included votes on the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act (H.R. 8), the Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act (H.R. 554), and the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act among others. The complete list of votes can be found on the IFDA web site www.ifdaonline.org. The program, introduced in 1992, was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his third inaugural address said, “A wise and frugal government … shall leave men … free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government.” The award itself is a custom-crafted replica of Jefferson standing in his Memorial, framed by his four pillars of prosperity: agriculture, manufacturing, commerce and navigation.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that his District staff will hold regular office hours in Auburn, Wash. “When I was elected, I promised to take a look at expanding our District service to other parts of the Eighth District, specifically the southern part of the District,” Rep. Reichert said. “These expanded office hours will help those constituents who wouldn’t normally be able to make the trip to my Mercer Islandoffice have direct, face-to-face access to our office. We'll be there to answer questions, help with casework and listen to concerns. We'll be able to set up private meetings with constituents, local city council members, community activists, organizations and groups in the area. "My District Office is committed to serving constituents' needs. If constituents have questions or concerns regarding a federal agency, we're there to help. And if the issue isn't federal we're going to find the right contact - state or local - that can assist them with the problem." If this program is popular with constituents you can expect Congressman Reichert’s District Office to set up regular office hours in cities across the Eighth District. During his first term in office, Congressman Reichert’s office has assisted 989 constituents with casework requests, helped 146 constituents with grant applications, and had his office’s work on the Academy Nominations process recognized by the Seattle District US Army Corp of Engineers as exceptional. What: Congressman Reichert's Staff Holding In-District Office Hours Where: 910 Ninth Street SE, Auburn, WA 98002 When: First and third Thursdays of the month in Auburn, 1:00-4:00 p.m. Who: Tom Young, Outreach Manager, will be available to take comments, answer questions and help with casework. If you would like to set up a meeting, please contact Tom Young at (253) 508-7071, toll-free at (877) 920-9208 or tom.young@mail.house.gov.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) worked to ensure a $2 million grant the City of Renton received from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) was delivered in a timely fashion. The City’s receipt of the grant allowed Renton to proceed on schedule with their project. The $2 million grant will go towards a $16,326,000 project to construct road, water, sewer and storm infrastructure that is part of the South Lake Washington infrastructure project. The project is a vital component of the South Lake Washington Landing urban village shopping center, which is scheduled to open in October 2007. “This project is important to Renton’s development as a city and to its economic development because it will provide over 2,000 jobs to the City,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “Making sure EDA got the money to Renton in a timely fashion helped the City stay on schedule. As the former administrator of the King County Sheriff’s office, I know how expensive and disruptive it can be for a project of that size to get behind schedule. I’m glad the South Lake Washington project is off to a strong start.” "The investment in new infrastructure for the South Lake Washington area is essential to transition this former industrial site into a dynamic economic engine for the City and the region,” said Renton Mayor Kathy Keolker. "Congressman Reichert's efforts to ensure the timely award of this $2 million grant will help the City in its effort to catalyze exciting new development in this emerging neighborhood." About the South Lake Washington infrastructure project: This infrastructure investment will help to encourage the private development of a 46-acre Boeing surplused property by Harvest Partners that will include 1.6 million square feet of retail, entertainment & mixed use urban village with 900 units of housing. This infrastructure will also support additional redevelopment of a 20 acre parcel with as much as 800,000 square feet of new and 650,000 square feet of renovated office space in the next 8 years. This development will assist Renton to continue to diversify its economic base and add over 2,000 jobs to the City (according to separate analysis completed by Boeing & Harvest Partners).
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the announcement made today by the CEOs of Chrysler, Ford and General Motors that by 2010, they will double their production of vehicles that are capable of running on renewable fuels. “The ‘Big Three Automakers’ have been working diligently with Congressional leadership to jointly work to decrease the high cost of energy,” said Congressman Reichert. “This announcement today is proof that those efforts are fruitful. This is another piece of the solution. “Another piece of the solution is increased CAFE (corporate average fuel economy) standards. I’m supportive of efforts made by Science Committee Chairman Boehlert to reduce demand for oil from light-duty vehicles, which account for 40% of U.S. oil consumption. Boehlert’s effort would direct the administration to save consumers money and cut projected oil demands from cars, SUVs, minivans and pickups by 10% starting in 2018. Initiatives such as this aren’t the solution by themselves, but each is a portion of a larger plan to reduce our dependence on oil and to reduce the high cost of energy.”
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, issued the following statement today in response to the formal statement made by Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Government Reform Chairman Tom Davis (R-VA) that the Senate’s compromise to make the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) an independent entity within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is a step in the right direction: “The sponsors of competing legislation have acknowledged the critical importance of keeping FEMA within DHS. Their legislation, which would make the grave mistake of removing FEMA from DHS, weakening the agency’s preparedness and response capabilities, creating duplicate hurdles for local first responders to navigate and reducing the agency’s access to valuable resources within DHS, is not supported by first responders. This last week, first responders across the nation have called their Members and House Leadership, reiterating this point over and over again. Clearly, their voices are beginning to be heard.” Chairman Reichert introduced legislation in May to address the national emergency response problems exposed by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita last year. His bill, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006, HR 5351, has the support of over a million first responders nationwide. Organizations Supporting H.R. 5351, The National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act International Association of Fire FightersInternational Association of Fire Chiefs National Sheriffs’ Association International Brotherhood of Police OfficersIAFC/NFPA Metropolitan Fire Chiefs Section National Volunteer Fire Council National Fire Protection Association American Ambulance Association National Association of County and City Health Officials American Public Works AssociationKing County Executive Ron Sims and his Emergency Manager Eric Holdeman, Seattle, WA Office of the County Council, Pierce County, WA
02.20.2008	The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) presented Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) with the Crime Fighter Award today. Reichert was selected to receive this award because of his extraordinary efforts to bring sexual offenders to justice, enhance services for victims of sexual assault and reduce the incidence of rape. This is the first time that RAINN has ever presented such awards to Members of Congress. “The issues and individuals that RAINN works as a passionate, dedicated advocate for have always been close to my heart,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “As a former cop, I know that the services available to victims of sexual assault are often woefully inadequate and I’ve worked to ensure the needs of victims are met, including the special needs of elderly, disabled and ethnic minority victims. Additionally, I’ve co-sponsored and worked to pass legislation like the Children`s Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act, which among other things, makes it easier to keep sex offenders in custody who remain a potential threat even after their prison term ends. Provisions like this are important to protect current victims of sexual assault from further harm and to reduce the number of individuals who might become the victims of repeat violent offenders in the future.” “We are honored to present Congressman Reichert with this award,” said Scott Berkowitz, president and founder of RAINN. “His leadership has been vital to the fight against sexual violence. His extraordinary efforts to enhance services for victims of sexual assault and bring sex offenders to justice, combined with his 30 years in law enforcement, have made America a much safer place. The Congressmen is one of our greatest assets in the fight against sexual violence, which is down by 58 percent since 1993." Reichert also introduced H. Res.889, Supporting the National Sexual Assault Hotline and commending the Hotline for counseling and supporting 1,000,000 callers. RAINN has operated the National Sexual Assault Hotline for 12 years. RAINN chose to honor Reichert because: Ø Reichert has emerged as a leader in the nation’s capital in the fight against sexual assault Ø Reichert co-sponsored a bill to provide grants for the prosecution of cases cleared through the use of DNA backlog clearance funds. One of RAINN’s top priorities is eliminating the DNA evidence backlog and maximizing use of DNA evidence in rape cases Ø Reichert has co-sponsored measures to tighten the registration requirements for sex offenders, another RAINN priority. Ø Most recently, Reichert co-sponsored a comprehensive law to revise and extend the Violence Against Women Act of 1994. This 2005 measure also establishes some entirely new programs, such as the Sexual Assault Services Program. About RAINN RAINN (Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network), the nation’s largest anti-sexual assault organization, operates the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 800.656.HOPE, in partnership with more than 1,100 local rape crisis centers. Later this year, RAINN will launch the National Sexual Assault Online Hotline, the first secure Web-based hotline offering live help, 24/7. RAINN also carries out programs to prevent sexual assault, help victims and ensure that rapists are brought to justice. For more information about RAINN, please visit rainn.org.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured an increase in funding for both the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) and the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program. These increases are the first in five years for either program. Working with Chairman Wolf, Congressman Reichert was able to increase COPS funding to $570.5 million. Additionally, Reichert offered an amendment to increase Byrne-JAG funding by $25 million, which Chairman Wolf accepted. $99 million is also included in the bill to address methamphetamine clean-up. The programs are included in the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2007. “I am grateful to Chairman Wolf for working with me to restore funding to these programs,” said Congressman Reichert. “I spent 33 years of my life in law enforcement. I served as a patrol officer, jail guard, detective, lieutenant, and then as the sheriff of King County. The COPS program and the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program are essential to local law enforcement communities. As a sheriff I witnessed how the COPS program provided much needed funding, allowing King County to have school resource officers and new law enforcement technology. I feel a sense of duty as a congressman and as a former cop to advocate for these programs. “In the war on drugs and especially meth, and in the fight against gangs and the war on terror, local police officers are working towards making our country safer. Starting in FY2002, funding for local law enforcement under these programs began to decrease. During this time however, Congress and the federal government was asking local law enforcement to do more than ever in the war on terror and in other efforts, and local law enforcement was complying despite ever-decreasing funding. “This is still not enough funding for local law enforcement efforts and the fight against meth, but I believe that this increase is a step in the right direction. Tight budget constraints make it impossible to fully fund every program, and I thank Chairman Wolf for recognizing the importance of local law enforcement and providing increases in the COPS and Byrne-JAG program.” Last year, Congressman Reichert offered amendments to restore funding cuts to the COPS and Byrne-JAG programs suggested by the administration and Congress. Reichert also pledged “to educate the leaders of the Appropriations process as to the importance of the COPS program, and [to] actively and aggressively look for ways to remedy the situation” of continued cuts to the program. Honoring that pledge, Reichert has worked over the last year to inform his colleagues of the value of both programs. The increased funding marks a successful campaign by Chairman Reichert.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted yesterday to approve H.R. 5638, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006, which will provide permanent estate tax relief. The estate tax, also known as the death tax, is a tax on the value of a deceased individual’s assets before they are passed to their heirs. Reichert co-sponsored legislation to permanently repeal the death tax. “It is simply unconscionable that the federal government levies a tax upon the passing of a loved one – a tax on money that has already been taxed, I might add,” Rep. Reichert said. “The legislation we passed will provide permanent relief from this unfair tax, allowing Americans who have worked hard their whole lives to pass down the fruits of their labor. Permanent relief from the death tax is important for family-owned businesses such as the Seattle Times Company, a fourth- and fifth-generation family business that is a fixture in our area. By approving this important measure, we are once again taking bold action to reduce unnecessary and unjust taxation on the American people.” Many economists have noted that the death tax penalizes savings and makes it more difficult for small business owners and farmers to pass on their life’s work to their families. H.R. 5638, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006, reunifies the estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes and increases the estate and gift tax exemption to $5 million per person. For estates between $5 million and $25 million, the rate of tax will be the same as the capital gains tax rate. On estates valued at more than $25 million, the top marginal rate of tax will be double the capital gains tax rate.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) today reaffirmed his commitment to reducing federal spending by voting to pass the Legislative Line Item Veto Act of 2006, which gives the president increased authority to remove unnecessary or wasteful items from spending bills. “This bill is the most recent step to ensure I am fulfilling my responsibility to the people in my District to restore fiscal discipline and enact reform in Congress,” Rep. Reichert said. “The passage of this timely bill will increase transparency and accountability in federal spending, discourage wasteful and unnecessary spending and it is an important aspect of earmark reform. While some projects are worthy of congressional appropriations, there are others that are pork and this provides a way to eliminate that wasteful spending. While some talk about curbing federal spending, we are taking action and passing meaningful reforms to reduce the federal deficit. “This is the latest of many efforts to control federal spending. I supported the final passage this year of the Deficit Reduction Act, which saves taxpayers nearly $40 billion over 5 years. In May, the House continued to demonstrate spending discipline by passing a fiscally-responsible FY 2007 Budget that holds the line on non-security spending to a near freeze for the second year in a row and sets aside more than $56 billion for the Global War on Terror and unexpected emergencies. I also co-sponsored the balanced budget amendment, which would obligate Congress and the Administration to spend within their fiscal constraints.” In Clinton v. City of New York, the Supreme Court held that the line-item veto authority granted during the Clinton administration violated the Constitution as the president’s requested rescissions would become law by default if either the House or the Senate failed to enact a motion of disapproval to stop them from taking effect. Unlike the previous version, it is believed that this legislation passes constitutional muster as it requires an up or down vote in both chambers of Congress. Among other things, H.R. 4890, the Legislative Line Item Veto Act of 2006, does the following: Ø Helps address the problem of unnecessary entitlement spending. Ø Directs savings from congressionally approved rescissions to deficit reduction efforts; Ø Allows the president 45 days to propose rescissions on spending bills he signs into law; and, Ø Requires Congress to act on the president’s proposed rescissions by requiring an up-or-down vote on the complete list.
02.20.2008	U.S. House Majority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today praised House passage of the School Safety Acquiring Faculty Excellence Act (H.R. 4894), legislation introduced by Rep. Jon Porter (R-NV) to give public and private schools access to national criminal databases to use in hiring personnel entrusted with educating students. He issued the following statement: “House Republicans are moving forward with our commitment to take action on the issues suburban families care about. I want to thank Congressman Porter for his leadership on this issue and his efforts to help ensure that our nation’s students are safe in the classroom. This common sense bill simply takes information already available and puts it in the hands of those who need it most: those responsible for educating our children. I also want to thank Chairman Sensenbrenner as well as Congressmen Mark Kirk (R-IL), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Geoff Davis (R-KY) for their dedication and tireless work on the priorities of suburban families and communities.”
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) is pleased to announce that South Pierce Fire and Rescue (SPFR) has been awarded $261,250 by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency through their Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The money will go toward the SPFR’s purchase of a new vehicle. “I spent dozens of years working with firefighters and emergency management services, and understand the need for proper equipment,” said Reichert, the former Sheriff of King County. “The need for high quality vehicles and equipment is essential to what a fire and rescue team can accomplish in saving lives and keeping our citizens safe. I am happy that $261,250 is coming to Pierce Fire and Rescue.” SPFR is staffed by fire and emergency medical services personnel who serve the communities of Roy, Harts Lake, Lacamas, McKenna and the greater Eatonville area, as well as providing Advanced Life Support to Ashford, Elbe and the City of Eatonville. “SPFR would like to thank FEMA and the AFG program,” said SPFR Fire Chief Bob Vellias. “We are very excited about receiving this grant which will allow our district to replace a 26 year old non-compliant tender. The benefit from the grant is passed on directly to our citizens.” The AFG program aims to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. The AFG program will have awarded approximately $490 million in competitive grants to fire departments and nonaffiliated EMS around the country in fiscal year 2007 pushing the overall total awarded by the program to almost $2.2 billion since its inception in 2004. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted today in favor of comprehensive federal spending legislation that secured over $58 million in federal funding to benefit the constituents of his congressional district and the state. The bill authorizes funds for 11 of 12 federal spending bills for Fiscal Year 2008. “This bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation passed by the House this year,” said Reichert. “It is about more than money and funding levels – this is about families and children, keeping communities safe, critical medical research and important projects maintaining our region’s fragile ecosystem, natural resources and national parks. There are critical increases in education programs and veterans’ funding. And there is needed intelligence funding for homeland security, which I fought for in June through my successful amendment to the original Homeland Security spending bill. “I am glad to see that after a lot of politics, a bipartisan agreement was reached between Congressional leadership and the President. The President was successful in advocating lower spending levels and I support him in that. The Democratic leadership was successful in funding their priorities, many of which I agree with.” Reichert fought for and successfully obtained funding in multiple areas, including: Labor, Health and Human Services ($3,603,968): · $143,843 for the Pediatric Interim Care Center in Kent · $479,807 for the College Success Foundation in Issaquah · $316,258 for Bellevue Community College · $479,807 for Bellevue Arts Museum · $178,326 for Pierce College Homeland Security Workshop · $277,834 for Northwest Kidney Centers Surge Capacity Initiative · $1,440,406 for Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Proton Beam Therapy · $287,687 for University of Washington-Bothell Nursing Homeland Security ($500,000): · $500,000 for Pierce County Community-Base Sheltering Program Interior ($21,963,932): · $492,200 for Mercer Island Sewer Line Replacement · $1,783,732 for Mt. Rainier National Park · $19.688 million for Olympic National Park Transportation, Housing and Urban Development ($1,519,000): · $294,000 for King County Hybrid Bus Program · $735,000 for Enumclaw Mt. Rainier Welcome Center · $490,000 for FAST (Freight Action Strategy) Corridor Grade Separations (Kent, Auburn, Puyallup and Renton) Energy and Water ($24,599,016): · $43,296 for Lower Puyallup River Alternatives Study · $1.2792 million for Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration · $1,625,568 for Duwamish – Green River Basin · $2,339,952 for Mud Mountain Dam fish passage · $2.952 million for Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration · $492,000 for King County Biogas and Nutrient Reduction Project · $369,000 for Lake Washington Ship Canal · $14.76 million for Columbia River Channel Improvements · $738,000 for Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Proton Beam Therapy Commerce Justice and Science ($5,186,300): · $329,000 for King County Sheriff’s Office for School Resource Officers · $470,000 for the Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs (WASPC) DNA Initiative · $491,000 for WASPC, Lacey, WA, for DNA testing for stranger rapes · $1,410,000 for the City of Bellevue · $446,500 for the City of Puyallup, for Tacoma/Puyallup law enforcement interoperability · $235,000 for Rainier Communications Commission · $394,800 for Pierce County Alliance, Tacoma, WA, for statewide meth initiative · $1,410,000 for the WA State Meth Initiative # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA) today in introducing the Media Ownership Act, legislation that will counter the damaging rule handed down by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to allow consolidation of media companies. The legislation would prevent the FCC’s hurried rule from becoming law by requiring more time for public comment and changing the timeframe for proposed revisions to be published. It would also go into effect retroactively, back to October 1, 2007. “This legislation changes technical provisions but is simple in its message and effects,” said Reichert. “We want local media to remain local, diverse and free. I’m pleased to join with Jay Inslee to counter the damage that this ruling could bring. I’m not only disappointed in their ruling today, but also the process in which it came about. Last month when the FCC held one of the rushed public hearings in Seattle, I spoke out, calling for retention of the current rules. Relaxing restrictions does not serve our citizens, and would lead to the detriment of localism and diversity that we still enjoy. We’re taking swift action to hopefully prevent these changes from affecting our communities and the families at home. I respect the free market and want a marketplace that allows corporations to operate as freely as possible. However, I believe it is a role of government to stand between corporations and consumers when the public interest is at stake. I will continue to do what I can to maintain a diverse, free and unbiased source of news for my constituents and across this nation.” Specifically, the legislation would: • Require the FCC to publish any proposed revisions to its media ownership rules at least 90 days prior to a vote. • Require at least 60 days for public comment and the FCC must respond to these comments within 30 days. • Require the FCC to complete a separate proceeding to evaluate the effects of consolidation on broadcast localism before any vote. • Require the establishment of an independent panel on female and minority ownership. The panel would provide data and offer recommendations to the FCC on how to increase female and minority ownership. The FCC must receive and act on these recommendations prior to voting on any proposed ownership rules. • The bill applies to any attempt to alter rules made by the FCC after October 1, 2007. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) today applauded House passage of H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, a bipartisan bill that makes comprehensive improvements to the consumer product safety system. It is the first time in over 15 years that Congress has acted to modernize the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). “I’m grateful to see this legislation moving forward,” said Reichert, a cosponsor of the bill. “Especially during the holiday season, consumers are ever-aware of the dangers that certain products can pose, that they may not even know about. During the last week of November, the CPSC recalled more than 300,000 products, including holiday ornaments and infant pacifiers. Congress should be a partner in working to ensure the safety of consumer products. We are charged with maintaining and improving the safety of our constituents, and this bill takes a good step forward in doing just that.” To enhance consumer protection, especially for children, this legislation: • Bans lead beyond a minute amount in products intended for children under 12 years of age; • Mandates pre-market testing by certified laboratories of children’s products for lead and other hazards; • Requires manufacturers to place distinguishing marks on products and packaging to aid in recalls of children’s products; • Creates a robust and extremely important new power for the CPSC to share information about dangerous products with the public immediately; • Prohibits the sale and export of recalled products and improves public notice about recalls; • Ensures that the CPSC effectively shares information with State public health agencies; and • Requires the CPSC to develop a plan for assessing safety risks of imported products and the feasibility of mandating bonds. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission is charged with protecting the public from unreasonable risks of serious injury or death from more than 15,000 types of consumer products under the agency's jurisdiction. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that one of his veterans’ bills became law as 2007 came to a close. On December 26, the President signed into law the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act. Included in that bill was Reichert’s Veterans’ Grave Marker Bill, which renews and expands a benefit for veterans to ensure that all veterans will receive headstones or grave markers recognizing their service to our country at no cost to their families. The Reichert bill had nearly 70 bipartisan cosponsors and was endorsed by the VFW, the American Legion, and the Military Order of the Purple Heart. “This benefit provides comfort and a much-deserved, distinguished honor to our nation’s veterans,” said Reichert. “I’m pleased that all veterans from this day forward will be able to receive this solemn benefit without question or cost to their families. It is the least our country can do to express its gratitude for their honorable and courageous service. I always heard that, being in the minority, it’s hard to get things done – but this is proof positive that working together, we can get things done. And I’m especially glad that it’s for our veterans.” Reichert's bill, H.R. 358, was included in H.R. 797, the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act of 2007, when it passed the House on December 11, 2007. The bill was signed into law on December 26, 2007. H.R. 358 is part of Reichert’s overall veterans agenda, which includes: • Providing servicemen and women a seamless transition home from active duty; • Connecting veterans and their families with the resources available to them; and, • Ensuring that veterans are provided with the finest medical care possible, reflecting their courageous sacrifice for the nation. Families of Eighth District veterans who may be eligible for a grave marker or headstone are encouraged to contact Reichert’s District Office at (877) 920-9208. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) voiced his support today for House Resolution 908, recognizing January as National Mentoring Month, which passed the House unanimously. Reichert applauded the resolution, which acknowledges the diligent efforts of individuals and groups who promote mentoring; recognizes the contributions of the millions of caring adults and students who are already volunteering as mentors; and encourages more adults and students to volunteer as mentors. Reichert submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record to recognize the importance of mentoring, in honor of mentoring organizations in the state of Washington, and a young constituent and his mentor for their work: “I am pleased to recognize January 2008 as Mentoring Month and I am proud to offer my support to H.Res. 908, Supporting the goals and ideals of National Mentoring Month. “The history of mentorship nationwide and in my district is a rich one. In Washington State alone, there are approximately 190 organizations specifically dedicated to placing young people into formal mentoring relationships. These organizations spent approximately $30 million in 2006 to forge and maintain those relationships – much of that money coming from private citizens. Most important, all that work has amounted to approximately 29,000 young people in Washington State taking part in a positive mentoring relationship. “One organization in particular that has had a tremendous and lasting impact on many disadvantaged youth in my district is Big Brothers Big Sisters. In 2007, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Puget Sound provided more than 2,500 children with mentoring matches and has a vision to provide successful mentoring relationships for all children who need and want them, contributing to better schools, brighter futures, and stronger communities for all. “Many of us know personally or have heard first-hand the heartbreaking accounts of young people who veered off the path of success or, because of a variety of circumstances, never even knew where to find that path. Mentoring can be a promising approach to enriching the lives of disadvantaged children and youth by discouraging juvenile delinquency, improving school attendance and performance, and by providing positive adult role models. “A young man from my district, Lorenzo, is a shining example of the unique way in which mentoring enriches the lives of our youth. Lorenzo moved to Washington State from West Samoa in 2006, and immediately received mentoring help from Ken – an individual who has consistently given of his time to mentor and nurture young people in my home community. Ken helped this young man through the discomfort of transitioning into a new environment, through the academic process, and into positive relationships with his new peers. Upon graduating from Kent-Meridian High School – my alma mater – Lorenzo gained admission to Central Washington University and is a wonderful example of the power of responsible and caring adult guidance. “Today, as Congress recognizes January 2008 as National Mentoring Month, I encourage all citizens, businesses, public and private agencies, religious and educational institutions to support mentoring and give young people in our community the gift of time and friendship through Big Brothers Big Sisters of Puget Sound or other mentoring programs throughout Washington State and our nation.” # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement tonight in response to the 2008 State of the Union Address: “This government should be focused on what’s best for our children, our families, and the citizens that make this country great. In order to get things done, we have to work together. All of us must stand tall for principle over politics, putting priorities over partisanship. It’s about America; it’s about freedom and the future of this nation. “I support the pro-growth policies that enact permanent tax relief and free trade agreements. Tax relief is essential to keeping money in the hands of hard-working Americans and strengthening our economy, and the last thing we should do in this time of economic uncertainty is to raise taxes. Washington is one of the most trade-dependent states in the nation, and we need to continue to knock down trade barriers to create jobs, grow our economy, and remain a leader in the competitive global marketplace. “I wanted to hear more about the nation’s most important domestic issue: health care. We need more emphasis on improving our nation’s health care system. Rising health care costs are the central challenge to families and businesses alike. We must work to enact real health care solutions that improve the quality care, that are more affordable and that offer individuals more choices. “I was especially pleased to hear a renewed commitment to our military, their families and our veterans. They deserve lives of ‘hope, promise and dignity,’ and it is our responsibility to care for them as they’ve cared for us and our country, sacrificing to preserve our freedoms. Together, our men and women are fighting to keep us free. Let’s follow their example – by working together for our nation’s future.” Congressman Reichert is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Children’s Health Care Caucus, a member of the Trade Working Group and a member of the Centrist Health Care Coalition. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) commented on the passage of today’s economic stimulus package, which passed the House 385-35. “This package is not perfect, but it does put taxpayer money back in the pockets of taxpayers, where it belongs. Tax relief for middle America and small businesses promotes growth and creates jobs. The financial success and well-being of Washington families and businesses depends heavily on free trade agreements, with one out of every three jobs in Washington State dependent on trade. We must continue to negotiate free and fair trade agreements. They are critical. “Returning money from Washington, D.C. to America’s families and workers is the right thing to do. We must restore Americans’ lagging confidence in our economy, making tax cuts permanent, especially the state sales tax deduction that affects every single Washington State taxpayer. The last thing we should ever do is raise taxes on hard-working Americans. If Congress does not act, Americans will soon see the largest tax increase in history. Tax cuts allow hard-working individuals to control their own money while increasing revenues for the government.” The stimulus would provide immediate tax rebates of $300-$1,200 for eligible taxpayers. It would also extend deductions for businesses to improve their facilities and operations and offer targeted, government-backed lending to first-time homebuyers. # # #
02.20.2008	Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that the Puget Sound Region will receive $26 million in federal funding from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant program for port security. The funds will strengthen prevention, protection, response and recovery capabilities. “I’m pleased to see this funding dedicated towards keeping our citizens and our commerce safe,” said Reichert. “The effects of transportation accessibility loss can be seen in the current closing of Snoqualmie Pass, as estimates for the closure equal $700,000 per hour in lost commerce, from the shut down due to the harsh winter storm that has hit the region. Our ports must remain protected, to prevent any closure to the Ports from terrorist threats and of course to keep our people safe. An investment in port security is not only an investment in our economy, but the nation as a whole. An estimated 70% of cargo coming into the Port of Seattle alone effectively ends up going east of Washington State. The government has a responsibility to protect our citizens, and our nation’s leaders must work together in providing a strong, secure foundation for safety for businesses, consumers, and families to feel secure in their everyday lives and activities.” The Port Security Grant Program will provide $26 million for the Puget Sound Region. This program supports sustainable, risk-based efforts to enhance access control and credentialing, protect against IED and other non-conventional attacks, and conduct disaster-response scenarios. These funds are awarded on the basis of risk and competition to eligible ports, as well as eligible ferry systems. In 2007, the region received $24 million. Specific funding for individual projects and ports will be set later this year. Further information, including individual fact sheets on each program, is available at www.dhs.gov. Congressman Reichert serves as the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing, and Terrorism Risk Assessment.
02.20.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) reiterated the importance of the Gang Elimination Act of 2006, H.R. 5291, which was highlighted by recent events. In Levittown, Penn., members of the Bloods street gang made threats on the life of Tyrone Lewis, president of the graduating class of 2006 at Harry S. Truman High School, forcing Lewis to miss the graduation ceremonies Friday. Rep. Reichert explained the importance of the Gang Elimination Act of 2006, H.R. 5291, which he introduced on May 4, 2006, in light of the spread of gangs into suburban communities. “That Tyrone Lewis—class president, gifted student, accomplished athlete, popular student and by all accounts, a good kid—was affected in such a dramatic, unfortunate way by the spread of gangs into his suburban community emphasizes that no one is safe,” Rep. Reichert said. “It’s imperative at the federal level that we get a handle on the growing gang problem so that we are able to focus our resources on those gangs that pose the greatest threat to our communities and citizens.” "I joined Congressman Reichert on this legislation because gangs are moving to the suburbs where they are recruiting seventh grade boys and girls to join their criminal lives,” said Congressman Mark Kirk whose own suburban Illinois district has more than 2,000 documented gang members. Graduation ceremonies for 415 seniors at Harry S. Truman High School began Friday afternoon without their class president, Tyrone Lewis. Lewis was banned from the ceremonies by police, who were responding to a death threat made against Lewis by the Bloods street gang. Lewis’ sister had agreed to testify against members of the gang in a murder trail. In April, Lewis was shot at by three men believed to be members of the gang. Another student, Ahman Fralin, was caught in the fray and shot in the spine. Fralin is currently paralyzed from the neck down as a result of his injuries. The Gang Elimination Act of 2006, H.R. 5291, is part of The Suburban Agenda, the family agenda for Congress, led by Rep. Mark Kirk (IL-10), Chairman of the Suburban Agenda Caucus. What the Gang Elimination Act of 2006 does: Ø Directs the Attorney General to report to Congress on a national strategy to eliminate the illegal operations of National Threat Drug Gangs (i.e., the top three international drug gangs that present the greatest threat to law and order in the United States). Ø Sets forth criteria for the Attorney General to consider in identifying a National Threat Drug Gang, including: (1) ties to international terrorist organizations or state-sponsored terrorism; (2) the volume of controlled substances imported or distributed by such gangs; and (3) the threat to children and schools in the United States.
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, issued the following statement on the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff and U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Thad Allen’s testimony before the Senate today. The hearing, entitled “Building an Integrated Preparedness and Emergency Management System: The Case for Keeping FEMA Within the Department of Homeland Security,” was held by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. “Secretary Chertoff and Admiral Allen made it clear- FEMA must remain part of DHS,” Reichert said. “They stressed-- in no uncertain terms-- that removing FEMA from the umbrella of DHS would cripple the federal government’s ability to prepare for, respond to and recover from both natural and man-made disasters. And it would drastically impair our ability to manage hurricane season, which began one week ago.” “H.R. 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006, has received the support of first responder organizations across the country, because they understand that keeping FEMA within DHS is the only logical approach,” Reichert said. “As the former Sheriff of King County, I strongly believe we should heed to advice of our first responders, men and women who are actually on the ground and understand what our disaster needs are. They have voiced their support for H.R 5351, and the House of Representatives should as well.” Just yesterday, the National Sheriffs’ Association (NSA) strongly reinforced their opposition to any proposal to remove FEMA from DHS: “NSA believes that removing FEMA from the DHS structure would be a step backward in ensuring enhanced coordination among first responders to natural disasters and terrorist attacks. FEMA should remain a part of DHS to ensure that emergency management assets are readily available and integrated with other federal response entities as well as state and local governments.’” Other Organizations Supporting H.R. 5351, The National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act International Association of Fire Fighters “On behalf of more than 270,000 professional fire fighters and emergency medical personnel, I am writing to express our strong support for H.R. 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act. The men and women of the IAFF experience firsthand the shortcomings of our nation’s emergency response system, and your legislation will go a long way toward addressing these problems.” (Letter of May 15, 2006) International Association of Fire Chiefs “The IAFC believes that H.R. 5351 is the better approach, because it would ensure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) remains within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The IAFC is concerned that the removal of FEMA from DHS will splinter the federal government’s emergency preparedness and response efforts, which will force local jurisdictions to cope with competing directives from both an independent FEMA and the other DHS agencies. In addition, it is important that the FEMA stay within the DHS and continue developing relationships with the U.S. Coast Guard and the other DHS components to better leverage their collective assets. (Letter of May 25, 2006) International Brotherhood of Police Officers “Perhaps the most innovative change contained in your bill is the merging of preparedness and response under one roof, headed by a qualified undersecretary and deputy undersecretaries with responsibilities for a clear chain of command ensuring that all components of emergency management, including law enforcement, are properly accounted for and represented…I am grateful for the opportunities that the committee and subcommittee have provided to the law enforcement community to participate in the bill’s design, the product of three years of meetings and research that started long before the 2005 hurricanes. It is with great enthusiasm that I offer our endorsement to you.” (Letter of May 17, 2006) IAFC/NFPA Metropolitan Fire Chiefs Section “On behalf of the Metropolitan “Metro” Fire Chiefs Section, our organization would like to endorse HR 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act…Your legislation addresses many of the concerns we have expressed regarding FEMA since the creation of the Department of Homeland Security and, with a sense of greater urgency, since the disaster of Hurricane Katrina. You have addresses issues such as national incident management; the qualifications of the agency’s director and subordinates, and the importance of regional coordination, communication and preparation through training and exercises. By reuniting response and preparedness, your legislation will enable FEMA to once again be the agency that America’s communities turn to in confidence, as a partner, when responding to a disaster of national significance, whether natural or man-made.” (Letter of May 24, 2006). National Volunteer Fire Council “On behalf of our membership, I would like to express our support for HR 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act…There are several provisions in HR 5351 that I think are especially valuable. I am pleased that the bill would require FEMA’s political appointees, from the Director on down, to have solid emergency management backgrounds…Requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to give Congress 60 days notice before being allowed to reprogram Directorate of Emergency Management funds will promote financial accountability and help to protect agencies, like the US Fire Administration, that have historically had their funds raided by parent agencies or departments.” (Letter of May 18, 2006) National Fire Protection Association “The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) would like to go on record as strongly supporting HR 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act. Your legislation brings response and preparedness together within the Department of Homeland Security. It addresses the weaknesses that have plagued FEMA since the creation of the Department and will enhance the nation’s ability to prepare for and respond to disasters, whether natural or man-made.” (Letter of May 22, 2006) American Ambulance Association “We are supportive of your efforts on this important legislation, which in addition to other critical initiatives, will ensure that all ambulance service providers are better prepared when responding to a natural disaster. This bill is critical to the emergency response community and we urge immediate passage of the bill in the 109th Congress.” (Letter of May 11, 2006) National Association of County and City Health Officials “We are pleased to support those aspects of the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006 that promote coordination of these resources, joint planning, training, and exercising, and collaboration by the Department of Homeland Security with the Department of Health and Human Services.” (Letter of May 17, 2006) American Public Works Association “APWA believes that the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006 will be instrumental in addressing many of the problems encountered during our nation’s response to the devastating hurricanes that recently affected the Gulf States.” (Letter of May 16, 2006) King County Executive Ron Sims and his Emergency Manager Eric Holdeman, Seattle, WA “This is a good bill that will improve our national emergency system; it keeps FEMA in the DHS, but restores disaster preparedness to the agency, which is critical to the Federal government’s ability to effectively respond.” (Letter of May 15, 2006) Office of the County Council, Pierce County, WA “The Pierce County Council puts itself on record as supporting the House bill that would keep the functions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency within the Department of Homeland Security…[T]he bill would provide the agency with greater authority and resources to respond to terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other emergencies.” (Letter of May 16, 2006) Organizations Endorsing Subtitle D, Authorizing the Office of Emergency Communications and Communications Interoperability Programs Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials International & the International Association of Fire Chiefs (combined letter) “[T]he above organizations support the efforts of you and the subcommittee to establish an Office of Emergency Communications to be headed by the Assistant Secretary for Emergency Communications within the Department of Homeland Security as contained in Subtitle D—Emergency Communications of H.R. 5351. We commend your subcommittee’s bipartisan effort to help our first responders communicate more effectively. We are encouraged that you have sought the guidance of the first responder community by holding numerous hearings on the need to improve operable and interoperable emergency communications after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.” (Letter of May 16, 2006) Homeland Security and Defense Business Council “On behalf of the Homeland Security and Defense Business Council (the Council), I am writing to support the emergency communications and interoperability provisions in H.R. 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act… The Council supports provisions included in Subtitle D – Emergency Communications that would: [e]stablish an Office of Emergency Communications and create an Assistant Secretary for Emergency Communications; [m]andate a National Emergency Communications Strategy, including the private sector and their subject matter experts, to achieve interoperable communications; and [a]ccelerate the development of national standards for emergency communications capabilities.” (Letter of May 26, 2006). M/A-COM, Inc. “M/A-COM applauds the House Homeland Security Committee for exhibiting the necessary leadership and offering a thorough approach to disaster response communications. The bill takes the right steps to bring all the stakeholders to the table to implement a national solution that will achieve interoperability between disparate jurisdictional and multi-agency emergency communications networks.” (M/A-COM Press Release, May 11, 2006)
02.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) co-sponsored and today voted to pass a bill seeking to decrease dependence on foreign energy sources. The House-passed bill will increase the number of U.S.-owned oil refineries. The passage of the legislation comes at a time when many Americans are feeling the high cost of gasoline. “Despite an increasing demand for fuel, the United States has not built an oil refinery in the United States in over 30 years,” Rep. ­­­­Dave Reichert said. “This long-overdue, environmentally sound legislation removes red tape preventing the construction of new refineries to help put our country on the path to energy independence. While some sit on the sidelines and fail to offer any practical solutions to address high gas prices now, the House is once again taking action to meet the energy needs of the American people.” In order to increase domestic refinery capacity, Reichert co-sponsored the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, which would speed up the permitting process for new domestic refineries. New refineries have not been built in the U.S. since 1976. There are 148 operating refineries in the U.S., down from 324 in 1981. This growing gap in production versus demand is met by an increasing amount of imports of refined products from foreign sources. Reichert voted for similar language in the GAS Act last year as well. Among other things, H.R. 5254, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, does the following: Ø Establishes a federal coordinator to bring together all U.S. government agencies responsible for issuing permits, to help the permitting process move as expeditiously as possible; Ø Gives priority in scheduling coordination to the Environmental Protection Agency, to ensure that the stringent environmental standards governing refinery creation are met; and Ø Eliminates unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy in the permitting process.
02.19.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04) were successful in saving the language included in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, H.R. 4939, that effectively maintains the energy rates that Washington State customers of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) currently pay. The bill is likely to come to the floor this week. “I am thrilled that Doc and I were able to convince Chairman Lewis and Chairman Hobson of this language’s critical importance to Washington residents,” Rep. Dave Reichert said. “The contract BPA negotiated, including its rate of federal debt repayment, should be honored. This is important not just to Washington State’s residents, but to all of BPA’s customers in the northwest.” This language is critical to the residents of the Northwest as it will temporarily delay a misguided administrative proposal that would lead to an electric rate increase of up to 10 percent in our region. This increase would be devastating to the Pacific Northwest, which is still recovering from the nearly 50 percent hikes in rates that happened throughout the region in the wake of the 2001-2002 Western electricity crises. A delay in the implementation of this proposal would allow time to try and resolve the matter with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) , Department of Energy (DOE), and BPA. The OMB has proposed rerouting some of BPA’s revenues, raising northwest electric rates by as much as 10%. The Senate-passed language on the supplemental simply denies funding for this rulemaking for fiscal year 2007, giving us several months to try and work this out with OMB, DOE and BPA. This language has no budget impact. Background The Administration proposed to increase near-term electric rates in the Pacific Northwest by accelerating BPA federal debt repayment, even though our region’s rate ratepayers have made timely payments to the Treasury for more than 20 years. In fact, BPA ratepayers have already voluntarily made more than $1.46 billion in repayments on BPA’s federal debt in recent years.
02.19.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured over $4.4 million in critical funding for transportation projects in Washington’s Eighth District. Reichert successfully obtained $1.4 million for FAST Corridor grade separation projects, $1 million for Coal Creek Parkway, $1 million for the Tolt Bridge, $500,000 for East Lake Sammamish Parkway and $500,000 for the Mercer Island Park & Ride. The funds are included in the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations request made by the U.S. House of Representatives. “These funds are crucial to maintaining and improving Washington State’s transportation infrastructure,” Rep. Dave Reichert said. “The efficient and timely movement of the goods that move through the ports in Seattle and Tacoma also hinges on these projects. Trade is of the utmost importance to our state and these funds work to ensure smooth intermodal transport of the goods that move through the state to the rest of the country.” Procedurally this is the first step. These funds have been included in the US House of Representatives Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations request that will be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives. Following passage by the House, the Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Rep. Reichert will continue to fight for funds for these project and others, such as the funds for the Carbon River Land Acquisition for Mt. Rainer National Park that Reichert announced in May, as they progress. City of Newcastle – Coal Creek Parkway widening - $1 million This project widens Coal Creek Parkway from two to four travel lanes with left-turn pockets, and adds a landscaped median, bike lanes, sidewalks, curb and gutter, crosswalks, illumination and drainage facilities. Three new traffic signals will be installed at SE 89th Street, May Valley Road and SE 95th Way. The existing May Creek Bridge will be replaced with a four-lane structure. The existing Boren Creek culvert at SE 89th Street will be replaced with a larger structure that will allow fish passage. The project extends from SE 84th Way to SE 95th Way. City of Sammamish – E. Lake Sammamish Parkway - $500,000 Funds will be used to perform National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental review, design and construct roadway improvements; improve connections to the adjacent regional rail-to trail pathway project in coordination with King County; and provide 1500 feet of public lake access to reduce lakefront homeowner concerns over potential trespassing on their properties. These improvements will relieve congestion and time delays for those traveling to or from high-technology employment centers, improve local freight movement, separate motor vehicles from pedestrians and eliminate motor vehicle conflicts in this priority transportation corridor which is one of the high-accident locations in the City. The project is supported by local Chambers of Commerce, the Cities of Sammamish, Issaquah and Redmond and King County. King County – Tolt Bridge Replacement - $1 million The Tolt Bridge connects the City of Carnation to SR-202 and SR- 520, providing access to the cities of Redmond, Bellevue and Seattle. Originally constructed in 1922, it does not meet current seismic, safety and roadway geometry standards. The bridge requires frequent maintenance with traffic closures. The bridge is scheduled for replacement in order to eliminate specific deficiencies of the existing structure, including limited sight distance, narrow roadway width with no shoulder and limited load capacity. In addition, the NE Tolt Hill Road, both east and west of the new bridge, will be realigned and widened to increase sight distance and make the route safer for roadway users. Sound Transit – Mercer Island Park and Ride - $500,000 Sound Transit will replace the existing Mercer Island Park-and-Ride with a two-floor parking garage, increasing total parking capacity to approximately 450 stalls. Several improvements will be made to the rider loading area including a larger bus bay in each direction, new passenger shelters, wider platforms, bicycle storage and other passenger amenities. In addition, the garage will be situated to minimize the visual impact on the surrounding community, including the depression of the first floor below grade. Partners include the city of Mercer Island, the Washington State Department of Transportation and King County Metro. Construction will begin in the spring of 2006 and is scheduled to be complete in 2007. WSDOT Fast Corridor Grade Separation Projects (Auburn M St. SE, Kent S. 228th at BNSF track, and Puyallup Shaw to E. Main) - $1.4 million These are grade separation projects that will improve freight mobility. These are part of the WSDOT FAST (freight action strategy) Corridor project to streamline the movement of freight through the central Puget Sound region of Washington State. City of Auburn – M Street SE grade separation To initiate and complete the engineering and environmental work and begin the ROW phase of the M Street SE Grade Separation Project. This project will grade separate M Street SE and the BNSF Railway’s Stampede Pass line by tunneling M Street SE at the crossing It will create a bypass route to mitigate traffic impacts during construction. This project is located on M Street SE between 4th and 6th Streets SE in the vicinity of the SR18 overpass and the at-grade BNSF Rail crossing in Auburn. The Bypass road portion of this project will connect M and R Streets SE south of SR 18. City of Kent – S. 228th grade separation at BNSF railroad tracks Construct a grade separation of S. 228th Street at the BNSF railroad tracks. This will eliminate delays at the tracks for vehicles waiting for trains and provide a more safe and seamless corridor for rail and freight. City of Puyallup – Grade separation bridge (Shaw to E. Main) The Shaw Road Extension Project is a regional priority, supported by the Washington Department of Transportation (WSDOT), the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma, and the FAST Corridor Partnership. In fact, the Shaw Road Extension Project is one of only five projects included in the FAST Partnership’s FY 2007 federal appropriations request. The City is also pursuing significant funding from Washington State’s Freight Mobility Strategic Investment Board. The City has received needed approvals from the Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC), and is currently in the right-of-way purchase and preliminary engineering phase. The City expects to open bids by the end of this year (2006) allowing final construction to begin in the first quarter of 2007.
02.19.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) lauded the passage of H.R. 5126, the Truth in Caller ID Act of 2006, a bill Reichert and Chairman Barton of the House Energy and Commerce Committee introduced that amends the Communications Act of 1934 to make it unlawful for any person to cause any caller identification service to transmit misleading or inaccurate caller identification information. “We saw after Hurricane Katrina that there were some who sought to take advantage of the generosity of our nation’s citizens. One way they did so was by ‘spoofing’, or appearing on caller identification systems as nationally recognized, well-known charities and then soliciting donations for the victims of Hurricane Katrina in the name of those charities. Well-meaning citizens believed they were donating to these charities, as that was the name appearing on their caller identification systems, when they were really turning over their credit card information and other information to con men. This bill makes that kind of scam illegal.” Criminals are using technology to disarm citizens and trick them into revealing personal information, such as Social Security numbers and credit card information, by posing as officials from charities, banks, credit card companies and other businesses and organizations. Complaints flooded into some Congressional offices after constituents received nasty phone calls, which caller ID identified as coming from the Representatives’ offices. This bill stops the growing practice of manipulating caller ID information. Caller ID 'spoofing' occurs when a caller masquerades as someone else by falsifying the number that appears on the recipient's caller ID display. Con artists may find websites that offer a simple web interface to caller ID spoofing systems that lets them appear to be calling from any number they choose for a small fee. What H.R. 5126, Truth in Caller ID Act of 2006 does: Ø Gives the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) authority to implement rules that would make it illegal to cause a caller ID service to maliciously transmit misleading or inaccurate information; Ø The bill exempts organizations such as domestic violence shelters from its provisions; Ø The bill does not reduce or alter existing FCC regulations of caller identification requirements for telemarketers.
02.19.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) held a reception today in honor of the students in Washington’s Eighth Congressional District who have received appointments to a United States Service Academy. “Today we honor the students from Washington’s Eighth Congressional District who have received appointments to a United States Service Academy,” Rep Reichert said. “By coming together in honor of these students, we actually come together in honor of something far greater than any one person or even one generation of people. We’re here in honor of those, including the students here today, who’ve dedicated their lives to serving this country. What has always distinguished this country from others are its people. Ronald Regan spoke of it, ‘Above all, we must realize that no arsenal or no weapon in the arsenals of the world is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women.’ “These students are not only the finest athletes, scholars and leaders in their schools and communities, but each of them also possesses the heart of a servant. They are not self-serving or self-seeking, they are invested in the development of others and in protecting this country, its citizens and freedoms. Thomas Reece from Mercer Island High School was so committed to serving that he actually joined the Army to have a better chance of receiving a nomination and his unit is deploying to Iraq. Rather than opt out of the deployment, Reece is going to serve with his unit until he has to report at West Point on R-day. Morgan Mathis grew up in China, but has now decided to dedicate his life in service to the United States of America as a member of the U.S. Air Force. Simritpal Singh serves his community as a member of my Youth Advisory Council and soon will serve his country as a member of the U.S. Army. Carolyn Carr is such a talented soccer player that West Point recruited her, and she has chosen from many, many options to serve her country. Emil Freitheim’s family has a record of service. Emil is going to West Point, where his father graduated from as well. “Standing among these exceptional students today, I know that they’ve learned what some never learn and Ronald Reagan frequently spoke of, ‘Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same. “I am grateful to many who’ve helped throughout the academy nomination process. Special thanks are owed to members of the Interview Board that took two full days to interview each student that applied for a nomination. I am also thankful for the work of all of the Academy Liaisons and field force members for what they do to help students with their dreams to attend a service academy. This process could not be successful without the collective efforts of several different groups of people.” Tom Young, Outreach Manager for Congressman Dave Reichert, was honored recently for his Academy nomination work. Colonel Debra M. Lewis presented Young with the first ever command coin awarded by the Seattle District Army Corp of Engineers for service to the military. Young received the command coin for improving the citizen-military relationship and for helping the Army do its job better. Young’s work on the Academy Nominations process was a large part of the reason for the award. “I am tremendously proud of each and every one of these amazing students,” Rep. Reichert said. “They are fighting to protect the single most important American ideal and value—freedom. I am grateful to them for their service, and I wish them the best as they start their biggest adventure.” This year’s class of eight students to West Point represents the largest group ever from a Washington Congressional District. We are sending a five-person class to the Air Force Academy and a 2-person class each to the Naval Academy and to the Merchant Marine Academy. Students from the Eighth Congressional District who’ve received and accepted a nomination to a service academy: Alexander J. Saul Skyline High School Sammamish Military Christian Lee Chisholm Seattle Academy Fall City Military David Thomas Matoi Kentlake High School Kent Military Carolyn Anne Carr Eastlake High School Sammamish Military Simon Mcmnaus Auburn Riverside Auburn Military Thomas Reece Mercer Island Mercer Island Reece Joined and applied to get a better chance for a nomination Emil Fretheim Newport High School Bellevue Military Simratpal Singh Interlake High School Bellevue Military Russell James Marihugh Liberty High School Renton Merchant Marine Joseph Louis Mantz III Liberty High School Issaquah Merchant Marine Alexander David Paladinu Liberty High School Issaquah Air Force Ryan Ottenad Sumner High School Sumner Air Force Morgan Mathis Cedarcrest High School Redmond Air Force Jared Goss
02.19.2008	For 140 years, our country has set aside a day to remember the members of our armed forces who have died fighting to protect our liberties. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) joins Americans in honoring the heroic men and women who have served the United States of America. America’s veterans and those who’ve given their lives in service of this great nation are deserving of our highest praise and appreciation. Their service has protected this country, its citizens and its freedoms since its inception. “The events of the last few years have reminded us that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. The United States stands today as a beacon of liberty because of the eternal vigilance of the men and women of the United States military, past and present. On Memorial Day, we honor the men and women who have laid down their lives to preserve our freedom. We remember them with undying gratitude. And we resolve, though we cannot repay the debt we owe them, to live our lives in such a way as to be worthy of their sacrifice.” Rep. Reichert’s legislative accomplishments to support our military and our veterans include a number of different bills. In response to reports of organized protests occurring throughout the United States at funerals of soldiers killed in the War on Terror, Representatives Mike Rogers (MI-08) and Dave Reichert, along with others, responded to protect the solemnity of funeral services for the fallen soldiers’ grieving families and loved ones by introducing H.R. 5037, Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act. The bill honors our bravest troops by prohibiting a person from carrying out a demonstration at a cemetery under the control of the National Cemetery Administration or at Arlington National Cemetery. The Senate passed the bill this week and it is headed to the President for his signature. “I believe that everyone can appreciate the right of a family to grieve the loss of a loved one in peace, regardless of anyone’s position on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am personally grateful for the service of every member of America’s Armed Forces. At a family’s most difficult time, I want to make sure at a minimum that they have the very basic of comforts: the ability to grieve their loss privately and the knowledge that their country is grateful for their loved one’s sacrifice and service,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, "I believe that the freedom of speech should be protected, but so should a family's right to privacy as they grieve their loss. There is a time and a place for vigorous debate on the War on Terror, but during a family’s last goodbye is not it." Rep. Reichert recently voted for H.R. 5385, The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007, which passed the House. The Act provides a historic $25 billion dollars for Veteran’s medical services and increases funding by $20 million for facility improvements in existing veterans’ homes. The bill, which emphasizes health care and veterans’ benefits, reflects the House of Representatives’ commitment to ensuring that the needs of the brave men and women who serve our country are fully met. “Approximately 625,400 veterans live in Washington State. This bill is important to them because it prevents the proposed increase to TRICARE fees and co-pays included in the administration’s budget. For the first time ever, the Appropriators used the Veterans Service Organization’s Independent Budget as the base-line for FY 2007 funding. It includes an approximately 11% increase, $2.6 billion, in VA healthcare funding for this fiscal year. With a new generation of veterans returning from places like Iraq and Afghanistan, this funding is critical.” In order to help our soldiers prepare for retirement, Rep. Reichert supported and the House passed H.R. 1499, the Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities Act. The HERO Act would treat tax-free combat pay as taxable compensation for purpose of making annual IRA contributions. The provision is effective for contributions made after December 31, 2003 – providing our troops with up to $70 million in tax benefits over the next 10 years. This week, Rep. Reichert voted for S.1235, the Veterans Housing Opportunity and Benefits Improvement Act of 2006. This bill authorizes disabled veterans’ using the adaptive housing grants to receive more funding to modify their homes or the homes of family members assisting them, to better accommodate their injuries. The bill also expands the current outreach efforts of the Department of Labor to educate employers on the benefits of hiring veterans. “It is essential that disabled veterans are able to make their homes as functional as possible and are given the resources to make the accommodations their physical abilities require,” Rep. Reichert explained. “This bill acknowledges that many veterans live with their families after returning home, and they will now be able to modify their new homes to meet their current needs.” Many have spoken in honor of those who’ve given their lives in service of this country. Few did so more eloquently than President Ronald Reagan. During his Veterans Day Proclamation on October 26, 1981, President Regan said, “The willingness of our citizens to give freely and unselfishly of themselves, even their lives, in defense of our democratic principles, gives this great Nation continued strength and vitality. From Valley Forge to Vietnam, through war and peace, valiant Americans have answered the call to duty with honor and dignity.” Today, America remains strong and free due to the sacrifice and toil of our troops, both at home and abroad, past and present. On Memorial Day we honor them for their service, which honors this country.
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) secured over $8 million for two Mud Mountain projects, $500,000 for Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration, $500,000 for the Puget Sound Adjacent Water Program, $1 million for the Small Wood Biomass Project at the University of Washington and $1.5 million for Ramgen Engine Development in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The House approved the Act today, which will provide funding to help keep our air and water clean and put our nation on the path to energy independence. “Our nation’s recent energy challenges have underlined the importance of energy independence and the development of alternative sources of energy,” Rep. Reichert said. “The Energy and Water Appropriations Act addresses these priorities by providing funding for research into a variety of alternative energy technologies, including biomass, hydrogen, solar, wind, and clean coal. Developments in these technologies will help put our nation on the path to energy independence and help make our air and water cleaner by reducing pollution.“ “I’m thrilled we were able to get the funds for these six projects through the House. This is great news but it is only the next step. Now we must work to ensure that this funding remains in the final conference report with the Senate and makes it to the President’s desk.” Among other things, H.R. 5427, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 will provide the following: Ø $5 billion for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Ø $24.373 billion dollars for the Department of Energy, including fully funding the American Competitiveness Initiative at $4.132 billion and $2 billion for energy supply and conservation programs
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) congratulated Jack Curry of Renton, Wash. after Curry received the Merchant Marine Medal for Outstanding Achievement today from U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta in a ceremony in honor of National Maritime Day, at the Department of Transportation headquarters in Washington, D.C. Jack Curry served aboard the EMPIRE STATE, a ship owned by the Maritime Administration during the six-month hurricane relief effort. Curry served as a steward’s assistant aboard the EMPIRE STATE, which is the school ship for State University of New York Maritime (SUNY MARITIME). Twelve Maritime Administration ships provided emergency meals and shelter for recovery workers and evacuees, serving more than 269,000 meals and providing more than 83,000 berth nights. The ships are normally used for other purposes: some of them are training ships used by state maritime academies, and others are ships of the Ready Reserve Force, which normally supports Armed Forces activity overseas. The unprecedented activation of the ships for a domestic emergency provided the stricken Gulf Coast with urgently needed supplies, water, generation of electricity, and assistance for oil spill cleanup, as well as food and shelter. Curry assisted in hurricane relief efforts on the EMPIRE STATE as a junior member of the staff, cooking in the mess and ensuring the cabins and mess were meticulously maintained. The EMPIRE STATE housed almost 1,000 visitors during its time in Lake Charles, among those housed were ConocoPhillips refinery workers who stayed until they restored operations at the refinery. Students from the dormitories at McNeese State University and Lake Charles port workers were also housed on the EMPIRE STATE. “The service Jack Curry provided to those in the wake of Hurricane Katrina is substantial and commendable,” Rep. Dave Reichert said. “Due to his efforts, those working to ensure that a much needed oil refinery was back in working order as soon as possible were able to successfully complete their mission, which Americans across the country were grateful for. To say nothing of the service the EMPIRE STATE provided to the local students and port workers, who were left stranded and homeless by Hurricane Katrina.” “The activation of these ships during hurricane relief efforts was unprecedented, and the work these mariners did was extraordinary,” said Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta. “The men and women of the merchant marine once again showed their resourcefulness during this national emergency by responding with the same courage and dedication they have shown time and again.” The Merchant Marine Medal for Outstanding Achievement was established in 2002 by the Maritime Administration, and is awarded to members of the maritime industry who have given extraordinarily valuable contributions to the U.S. merchant marine. *** Attached is a photo of Jack Curry with Deputy Maritime Administrator (Acting) Julie Nelson and Sec. of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta.
02.10.2008	The House of Representatives approved the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The bill, which emphasizes health care and veterans’ benefits, reflects the House of Representatives’ commitment to ensuring that the needs of the brave men and women who serve our country are fully met. “The passage of this bill reflects Congress’ commitment to fully fund the needs of our veterans and the needs of those currently serving in the military,” Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) said. “I can’t think of a better way to spend our taxpayer dollars than in ensuring those who protect our freedom receive the best medical care and other benefits. “About 60,000 veterans live in our District. This bill is important to them because it prevents the proposed increase to TRICARE fees and co-pays included in the administration’s budget. For the first time ever, the Appropriators used the Veterans Service Organization’s Independent Budget as the base-line for FY 2007 funding. It includes an approximately 11% increase, $2.6 billion, in VA healthcare funding for this fiscal year. With a new generation of veterans returning from places like Iraq and Afghanistan, this funding is critical.” Among other things, H.R.5385, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 will do the following: Ø Provide a historic $25 billion for Veterans Medical Services – $2.6 billion above last year’s level, representing a 70 percent increase in total funding over the last 6 years; Ø Increase funding by $20 million for facility improvements in existing state veterans’ homes; Ø Increase basic medical research funding by $13 million, for a total of $412 million; Ø Add $12 million to upgrade Veterans Affairs medical research facilities nationwide; and Ø Increase the defense health program by $1 billion, for a total of $21 billion.
02.10.2008	The House of Representatives today passed its annual Interior appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007 to fund the Department of the Interior, the National Park Service, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other environmental projects and programs. “Congress has an obligation to protect our country’s natural beauty, embodied in our nation’s parks, rivers, and breathtaking landscapes,” Rep. Reichert (WA-08) said. “This bill provides both fiscal discipline and environmentally sound decision-making to help preserve our natural treasures while spending taxpayer dollars wisely. “Also contained in this bill is funding for three critical projects in the District. There is $1.5 million in funding for the Carbon River Land Acquisition near Mount Rainier National Park Acquiring these lands will allow the National Park Service to establish reliable access to the Park. There is $500,000 for the Cascade Water Alliance’s Central Segment Pipeline, which will connect the Tacoma and Seattle water systems with Cascade’s water system. The bill also includes $500,000 in critical funding for the City of Carnation’s construction of a citywide sewer collection and conveyance system and a new wastewater treatment plant and discharge facility, bringing the total we have secured for this project to $1.5 million. Each of these projects is of the utmost importance to one or more communities in the District. This is great news but it is only the next step. Now we must work to ensure that this funding remains in the final conference report with the Senate and makes it to the President’s desk.”
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Rep. Mike Castle (DE), Rep. Nancy Johnson (CT) and others were successful in their push to restore much needed funding for education and healthcare programs in the FY07 Budget Resolution passed today by the House of Representatives. “When I joined the Reichert-Castle-Johnson amendment as a cosponsor it was to assure that the House continued to fund critical programs. I am grateful that through these efforts the House leadership has listened to us and restored health and education funding, including some programs that are utilized by the neediest among us,�? Congressman Reichert said. “While they have not adopted the amendment, they have worked in good faith to restore the funding and carry out the goal of the amendment. That is a victory for our country. Underfunding critical research and public health programs imperils the health of mothers and children today. In light of that, at the very least we need to maintain funding to programs that reduce the number of low-birth weight babies and provide prenatal care to those that cannot otherwise afford it. Our efforts have done just that, maintaining the funding at last year’s levels. “In addition to being the right thing to do, restoring these funds just makes good fiscal sense. It’s shortsighted to cut discretionary spending in areas that will ultimately cost the taxpayer many times the number of dollars supposedly saved. In 2003 the estimated charges for hospital stays of premature and low-birth weight infants were $18.1 billion, almost half of which was billed to Medicaid; taxpayers paid almost $9 billion dollars in one year to care for those infants, many times the cost of programs that reduce the number of low-birth weight babies. I am also very happy that the leaders were able to negotiate this within the original House budget number which restores fiscal discipline to Congress. I have said all along that budgets are about priorities – and today we have set the right priorities for America. This is truly a win-win agreement.�? The organizations that supported the Reichert-Castle-Johnson amendment: < AAALAC International AARP Abbott Laboratories Fund AcademyHealth Acadia Pharmaceuticals Ad Hoc Group for Medical Research Adams County Economic Development, Inc. AdvaMed (Advanced Medical Technology Association) Advocate Health Care Affymetrix The AIDS Institute Albert Einstein College of Medicine Allegheny-Singer Research Institute Allergan Alliance for Aging Research Alliance for Lupus Research Alliance for Prostate Cancer Prevention Alnylam US, Inc. Alpha-1 Foundation Alzheimer’s Association Ambulatory Pediatric Association AMDeC-Academic Medicine Development Co. America on the Move Foundation America’s Blood Centers American Academy of Neurology American Academy of Ophthalmology American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry American Academy of Pediatrics American Association for Cancer Research American Association for Dental Research American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry American Association for the Advancement of Science American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases American Association for Thoracic Surgery American Association of Anatomists American Association of Colleges of Nursing American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy American Association of Human Genetics American Association of Immunologists American Association of Neurological Surgeons American Association of Public Health Dentistry American Brain Coalition American Cancer Society American Chronic Pain Association American College of Cardiology American College of Medical Genetics American College of Neuropsychopharmacology American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists American College of Preventive Medicine American College of Surgeons American Dental Association American Dental Education Association American Diabetes Association American Federation for Aging Research American Foundation for AIDS Research American Gastroenterological Association American Geriatrics Society American Heart Association
02.10.2008	After only 17 months in Congress, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is ranked Washington State’s second most powerful Congressman, second only to 30-year Congressman Norm Dicks. Congressman Reichert distinguished himself early in the U.S. House of Representatives and became only the sixth freshman in the history of the House to be given a committee chairmanship. Congressman Reichert was named Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology following the disastrous response to Hurricane Katrina, in order to utilize his unique and valuable experience to reform emergency response in this country. “I’ve been working hard to advance my committee’s agenda, ensuring that the communications problems first responders face are a thing of the past and reforming FEMA so that we never experience an utter failure of response like the one we saw in the wake of Hurricane Katrina,�? Congressman Reichert said. “I’m pleased I’ve been able to influence key issues by working in a bi-partisan way with my colleagues. Only through those cooperative efforts were we successful on matters such as preventing increased oil tanker traffic in Puget Sound and in acquiring much needed funding for transportation projects like the Alaskan Way Viaduct and the Cross-Base Highway. I will continue to work in a bipartisan way, which will be particularly important this week as the House Committee on Homeland Security marks up the bill I’ve proposed to reform FEMA, the Katrina Lessons Learned bill. This is the perfect example of an issue that is important to everyone - not just Republicans or Democrats - and that must be looked at and addressed in a bipartisan way. With hurricane season only weeks away, it’s imperative that we address this problem together, now.�? U.S. Representatives from Washington State Name Rank in State Score Rank in House Rep. Dicks (D-WA-6) 1 31.25 26 Rep. Reichert (R-WA-8) 2 16.62 169 Rep. Hastings (R-WA-4) 3 16.25 174 Rep. McMorris (R-WA-5) 4 15.75 184 Rep. McDermott (D-WA-7) 5 14.75 213 Rep. Baird (D-WA-3) 6 13.50 248 Rep. Larsen (D-WA-2) 7 7.37 361 Rep. Inslee (D-WA-1) 8 7.25 366 Rep. Smith (D-WA-9) 9 6.75 378 The rankings were done by Knowlegis, a government relations knowledge management company that considers among its ranking criteria Members’ position, influence and legislative activity. Background on Power Rankings Power Rankings Criteria Knowlegis’ project team identified 15 characteristics of power. These characteristics were then measured and weighted to determine the relative power demonstrated by Members of Congress in 2005. We grouped those characteristics into three broad categories - position, influence and legislative activity.Knowlegis staff researched, sorted and considered thousands of data points to determine what legitimately demonstrates the exercise of power and its effectiveness. The team limited the research to the 2005 calendar year. Researchers reviewed thousands of media articles, hundreds of bills that passed out of committee and through each chamber, as well as over a thousand amendments that attempted to shape the outcome of legislation. Data was collected on the leadership, committee, and caucus positions of each Member of Congress in their chamber, researched relevant campaign contributions, and considered any characteristic or action that could contribute to their Sizzle-Fizzle factor.
02.10.2008	WHO: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY) Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC) *Other Members to be announced* WHAT: Discussing the Katrina “Lessons Learned” Legislation WHEN: Following final committee vote on the bill (Expected 11 AM) WHERE: Outside 311 Cannon BACKGROUND On Wednesday, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, Dave Reichert will be joined by full Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Peter King (R-NY) and Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, and Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Investigations, and other Members, to discuss H.R. 5351, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006. This bipartisan bill addresses the reform of existing emergency management practices and the implementation of lessons learned in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Specifically, the “National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act” considers: improving national disaster response, enhancing DHS’ coordination with State, local and tribal governments, first responders and other stakeholders, and enhancing prevention of fraud, waste and abuse. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is the lead sponsor of the legislation; also sponsoring are Chairman Peter King (R-NY), Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Bob Ethridge (D-NC).
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s national address outlining his plan to use National Guard personnel to temporarily assist Customs and Border Protection agents with border enforcement: “As a former law enforcement officer, there is no aspect of this country’s immigration problem that is of greater importance to me than the homeland security threat posed by some that cross our borders to do us harm. There are those that want to hurt this country and its citizens, and our border invites their entry into this country. From an exercise the GAO conducted late last year, we learned just how vulnerable our unsecured borders make us to possible terrorist threat. The GAO report detailing the exercise revealed that a terrorist could drive a nuclear device across our borders undetected. It is the right move to send National Guard troops to our borders to help the border patrol tighten security. “We are not militarizing our borders by putting National Guard troops on them. The National Guard troops will work with and for border patrol agents. The troop’s station there will be temporary, and will not exceed two years. To emphasize the program’s temporary nature and to work on the permanent solution, the President called on Congress to increase programs that encourage State and local partnerships in addressing our immigration problem. Programs such as the 287G program provide training for State and local officials who want to assist with immigration enforcement. Another program encouraging State & local partnerships is Operation Stonegarden, a Department of Homeland Security grant program currently in place along the Texas-Mexico border that gives states the flexibility and additional funding to protect our borders. Operation Stonegarden would expand to other border states under the President’s proposal. “We are a nation of immigrants and this issue is complex and must be debated in a way that is constructive. We must approach it from a comprehensive perspective that must address more than the homeland security threat our unsecured borders pose. Congress must address the need for a temporary guest worker program, to account for each undocumented individual in the United States and record their presence within our borders, as well as improve our detection and apprehension capabilities. The immigration problem is multi-faceted and so must be its solution.”
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured over $8 million in critical funding for two Mud Mountain projects, as well as $500,000 for Puget Sound Nearshore Restoration and $1 million for the Small Wood Biomass Project. Congressman Reichert secured $2.639 million for the Mud Mountain White River Fish Passage and $5.47 million for the Mud Mountain Dam Replacement. “The Mud Mountain Dam at Lake Tapps has been in need of repair for years,” Congressman Reichert said. “It is a rudimentary structure that endangers the Puget Sound Chinook salmon’s safe passage to their spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam. The dam replacement and diversion will be a boon to the salmon population who spawn there. “The Puget Sound Nearshore Restoration study will look at how we can restore the beneficial resources in the Puget Sound region and sustain these important natural resources for years to come. “This Small Wood Biomass Project is going to develop hydrogen directly and via methanol and wood. Spurring the development of renewable sources of energy in every way I can is something I feel very strongly about. Yesterday, a bill I co-sponsored, the H-Prize Act of 2006, passed the House. This bill offers prizes to spur new innovations in hydrogen technology to inventors. I think it’s a very positive development that more people are seeing the value of increased research and development for renewable sources of energy.” Mud Mountain White River Fish Passage These operations funds enable the Army Corps of Engineers to meet its fish passage needs for its Mud Mountain Dam on the White River by continuing the operation of the diversion dam and fish trap. The diversion dam and trap and haul facilities enable threatened Puget Sound Chinook salmon to be passed to spawning habitat above Mud Mountain Dam. Mud Mountain Dam Replacement The Army Corps of Engineers is in the final stages of redesigning the replacement diversion dam at this fish passage facility with construction of the new facility targeted for subsequent years. The new dam will replace the existing 100-year old structure and enable the Corps to meet ongoing fish passage needs for Mud Mountain Dam. Puget Sound Nearshore Restoration The Puget Sound Action Team and Puget Sound Partnership requested funds for The Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project is a cooperative effort among U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and local sponsors. The study examines nearshore habitat uses and needs of the Puget Sound Basin and evaluates how implementation of new management measures can achieve ecological sustainability and maintain beneficial uses of natural resources in the region. Small Wood Biomass Project The proposed project will consist of the following four phases for which funding is requested: (I) develop methods to design appropriate systems for specific locations and evaluate their economic, environmental, and social impacts, (II) identification of one or more sites for testing and development of designs for those locations, (III) field testing at one or more locations, (IV) develop a flexible system for producing hydrogen directly and via methanol from wood and other materials to be supplied to a fuel cell.
02.10.2008	To provide for our country’s defense and promote the welfare of our heroic men and women in uniform, the House of Representatives today approved H.R. 5122, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 – the annual funding blueprint for the Department of Defense and America’s military activities. “I am proud to have supported this critical piece of legislation that will help protect our homeland and ensure that the brave men and women of our armed forces have the resources they need to effectively fight the war on terror,” Rep. Reichert said. “This bill reflects the continuing threat our country faces, and its passage will help ensure that we continue to stay one step ahead of the enemy. I met with members of the Washington Army National Guard based at Camp Murray who told me about their need for more body armor. We worked to address that need and this bill provides $390 million for body armor.” Among other things, the National Defense Authorization Act provides for the following: A 2.7 percent across-the-board pay raise for members of the military; $50 billion in supplemental funding to support the global war on terror; An increase of $390 million for continued production of enhanced body armor and body armor components; and Additional funding for force-protection needs, including up-armored Humvees, improvised explosive device (IED) jammers, and Humvee IED protection kits and gunner protection kits. The bill also blocks the Department of Defense’s proposed TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard fee increases and zeroes out co-pays for generic and formulary mail order prescriptions for military beneficiaries
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will keep his district office open until 9:00 p.m. on Monday, May 15, 2006, to assist seniors signing up for the new Medicare prescription drug program. Congressman Reichert’s district office is in Mercer Island, and the toll-free phone number is (877) 920-9208. The deadline to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan is May 15, 2006. "Many seniors are finding that the new Medicare prescription drug coverage is saving them hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year on their prescriptions. Seniors can enroll in one of the new Medicare prescription drug plans without penalty until May 15th,�? said Congressman Reichert. "But the deadline to enroll in this new program is May 15, 2006. I will be keeping my district office open until 9:00 p.m. on May 15th. If you bring your Medicare card and a list of your current prescription drugs with you, we will be able to help you sign up right in my office." This is part of Congressman Reichert’s ongoing effort to assist seniors during the sign-up period. In addition to keeping his office open late, Congressman Reichert has sent over 125,000 pieces of mail to constituents that explains the program and provides sign-up information. He has made over 40,000 phone calls to seniors in his District about the program. He has held 16 workshops, helping seniors to sign-up and giving them access to the program’s experts. Congressman Reichert also said that seniors who cannot make it into his office on May 15th can log on to his website at www.house.gov/reichert for help or you can call toll-free, 1-800-MEDICARE for assistance. Congressman Dave Reichert’s District Office is located at 2737 78th Avenue S.E., Suite 202, Mercer Island, WA 98040. The phone number is (206) 275-3438 or toll-free (877) 920-9208.
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, announced today that he introduced legislation, the National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006, HR 5351, in the U.S. House of Representatives to address the national emergency response problems exposed by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita last year. Flanked this morning by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), and the Ranking Member of his Subcommittee, Bill Pascrell (NJ-08), Reichert explained the importance of bi-partisan, bi-cameral FEMA reform legislation. The legislation will mandate specific and substantial changes within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), especially within the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “This legislation is the result of hundreds of hours of hearings, testimony and conversations with first responders, State, local, federal and tribal government officials, as well as key members of the private sector,” said Rep. Dave Reichert. “We drafted a bill from the testimony and evidence they provided that provides solutions to the problems we heard about again and again. This legislation has not only been vetted with first responders, but has been drafted by staff who worked with them through every step of the process and every piece of this bill. First responders were the first to comment on this bill and they had the opportunity to suggest changes and additions, which were made to the bill before I introduced it today. This is just one more aspect of the bottom-up approach we used to create a 21st century approach to emergency management.” “The key elements of this bill are that it marries preparedness and response, recognizing their integral relationship to each other. Our bill elevates the department within the Department of Homeland Security, recognizing the great importance of their mission and increasing staff and resources to ensure they are capable of successfully carrying it out. The importance of emergency communications is emphasized, giving State, local, trial and public safety agencies the tools and standards for interoperable communications for the very first time. Additionally, this bill puts control back in the hands of officials in the regional offices, the men and women who are familiar with and from the areas where crises occur. Finally, we require every state and urban area to create and maintain a catastrophic plan which includes evacuation planning, so that we never again face the mayhem and disorganization Hurricane Katrina caused.” In the House, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is the lead sponsor of the legislation; also sponsoring are Chairman Peter King (R-NY), Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Bob Ethridge (D-NC).
02.10.2008	On the heels of thirty one consecutive months of uninterrupted job growth, House and Senate Majority leaders forged an agreement to prevent a tax increase on small business owners, seniors and married couples in the form of H.R. 123, the Tax Relief Bill of 2007. The bill centers on averting tax hikes on the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), Capital Gain and dividends, and the extension of Section 179 in the Tax Code for continued expensing to small business owners. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) lauded the measure for yielding more and more incentives to spur the economy. “Today we provided tax relief to millions of American small business owners, families and seniors. It only makes sense that as our country continues to enjoy unparalleled economic growth, Congress responds by preventing a tax increase to ensure that more and more Americans keep their hard earned money and help grow our thriving economy,” said Rep. Reichert. “This tax relief measure will assist seniors living off dividends, small business owners who will be able to write off business expenses and working families currently burdened by unnecessary taxation,” added Rep. Reichert. “Our work isn’t done though. I have sent a letter to Chairman Thomas, expressing again how important the federal income tax deduction contained in the second tax bill is for Washington State residents. A two-year extension of the expiring federal income tax deduction for those who live in states with no income tax is contained in that bill. I’ll continue to push for the extension of that deduction.” Among other things, the Tax Reconciliation Bill will do the following: Prevent an increase on the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) for an additional year. AMT is an additional tax some people have to pay on top of the regular income tax, especially two parent families who live in high-taxed States. Extend Section 179 of the Tax Code providing for continued Small Business expensing. Dividends: Extends for two years the lower tax rate on dividend income, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. 1 in 2 taxpaying senior citizens will benefit. Capital Gains: Extends for two years the lower tax rate on capital gains income, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit. How this legislation affects Washington State: Permanent Tax Cuts have created an average of 15,811 jobs yearly for Washington residents. Permanent Tax Cuts have spurred an average increase of $4,064 in disposable income for Washington residents. After 2010, Permanent Tax Cuts are projected to create an average of 36,492 jobs yearly for Washington residents. After 2010, Permanent Tax Cuts are projected to spur an increase of $6,055 in disposable income for Washington residents. Impressive Economic Numbers of the Past Few Months: 211,000 Jobs Created in the month of March alone. 2.1 Million Jobs created over the past 12 months. The unemployment rate is 4.7 percent – lower than the average of the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has increased 3.5 percent in 2005, and growth was revised up from an original estimate of 1.1 percent to 1.6 percent annual rate for the fourth quarter of 2005.
02.10.2008	WHO: Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT) Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY) Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC) WHEN: 10 a.m., Thursday, May 11, 2006 WHERE: Senate Press Gallery BACKGROUND Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Joe Lieberman (D-CT), and Members of the Committee on Homeland Security will hold a media availability to discuss proposed legislation which will implement lessons learned in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Reforms include improving our national disaster response, enhancing the Department’s coordination with State, local and tribal governments, first responders and other stakeholders, and enhancing prevention of fraud, waste, and abuse. Members will detail proposed FEMA reforms. In the House, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is the lead sponsor of the legislation; also sponsoring are Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Bob Ethridge (D-NC).
02.10.2008	The House of Representatives today passed a bill that will help strengthen America’s long-term energy security by encouraging the development of new technologies that would make hydrogen a viable alternative to oil in fueling our vehicles. The legislation, the H-Prize Act of 2006, would offer prizes to spur new innovations in hydrogen technology. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), co-sponsor of The H-Prize Act of 2006, H.R. 5143, issued the following statement following the bill’s passage: “Hydrogen is the Holy Grail of transportation fuels,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is clean, it is abundant, and most importantly, it can be produced here at home, taking the security of our economy out of the hands of those leading politically volatile nations and oil cartels. What’s more, the only emission from a hydrogen car is pure water, so smog and pollution could become problems of the past. “But before hydrogen cars can become practical alternatives to the cars we drive today, significant technical hurdles must be overcome. The H-Prize will help make that happen by establishing a national competition that will summon our nation’s best and brightest to the task of making the hydrogen economy a reality. This is the perfect tool to tap into America’s can-do spirit as we tackle a national priority.” The H-Prize is modeled after the successful Ansari X Prize, which spurred the first privately funded suborbital human spaceflight last year. Under the bill, prizes would be awarded to researchers, universities, companies or private citizens who develop technical breakthroughs related to key aspects of the hydrogen fuel cycle: · Technological Advancements – Four prizes of up to $1 million awarded biennially in the categories of hydrogen Production, Storage, Distribution and Utilization; · Prototypes – One prize of up to $4 million awarded biennially that forces working hydrogen vehicle prototypes to meet ambitious performance goals; and · Transformational Technologies – One grand prize consisting of a $10 million cash award, funded in whole or in part by federal contribution. Additional matching funds could be awarded for development of wells-to-wheels breakthrough technologies.
02.10.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) lauded the passage of the Respect for America's Fallen Heroes Act, by the U.S. House of Representatives, 408-3. Rep. Reichert is an original co-sponsor of the bill sponsored by Congressman Mike Rogers (MI-08), which restricts protests at funerals at national cemeteries for 60 minutes before or after a funeral. It also restricts any protests from occurring within 500 feet of the grave site or individuals they are protesting. In response to reports of organized protests occurring throughout the United States at funerals of soldiers killed in the War on Terror, Representatives Reichert, Rogers and others responded to protect the solemnity of funeral services for the fallen soldiers’ grieving families and loved ones by introducing the Act. “I believe that everyone can appreciate the right of a family to grieve the loss of a loved one in peace, regardless of anyone’s position on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am personally grateful for the service of every member of America’s Armed Forces. At a family’s most difficult time, I want to make sure at a minimum that they have the very basic of comforts: the ability to grieve their loss privately and the knowledge that their country is grateful for their loved one’s sacrifice and service,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, "I believe that the freedom of speech should be protected, but so should a family's right to privacy as they grieve their loss. There is a time and a place for vigorous debate on the War on Terror, but during a family’s last goodbye is not it." The legislation will: Ban all demonstrations 60 minutes prior to and after funerals taking place at Department of Veterans Affairs' national cemeteries or the Department of Army's Arlington National Cemetery (the only areas the federal government maintains jurisdiction over); Impose a 500-foot restriction on demonstrations at national cemeteries and Arlington National Cemetery; Allow for a civil infraction for violations, including monetary fines and/or jail time of six months to a year, as consistent with the authority granted to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under current regulation; and Express the sense of Congress that all states should enact similar bans for state and private cemeteries, as well as funeral homes. These restrictions are consistent with several U.S. Supreme Court rulings. In Frisby v. Schultz, 4 U.S. 474, 481 (1988), the Court ruled that regulations of the time, place, and manner of expression which are content-neutral, are narrowly tailored to serve a significant government interest, and leave open amply alternative channels of communication.” And that “[t]he First Amendment permits the government to prohibit offensive speech as intrusive when the 'captive' audience cannot avoid the objectionable speech.” Additionally, two Federal appellate courts have upheld policies the Department of Veterans Affairs uses to protect the integrity of national cemeteries: Griffin v. Department of Veterans Affairs 274 F.3d 818 (4th Circuit 2001) and Griffin v. Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Griffin II) 288 F.3d 1309 (Federal Circuit 2002).
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) joins Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL), Chairman of the Suburban Agenda Caucus, in unveiling The Suburban Agenda, the family agenda for Congress. Rep. Reichert will also introduce his bill, The Gang Elimination Act of 2006, which creates a “Gang Most Wanted List.” Who: U.S. Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL), Chairman of the Suburban Agenda Caucus U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Member of the Speaker’s Drug Task Force Speaker J. Dennis Hastert Majority Leader John Boehner Majority Whip Roy Blunt U.S. Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL) U.S. Rep. Richard Keller (R-FL) U.S. Rep. Randy Kuhl (R-NY) U.S. Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) U.S. Rep. Jon Porter (R-NV) U.S. Rep. Tom Price (R-GA) U.S. Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE) U.S. Rep. Tom Reynolds (R-NY) U.S. Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX) U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw (R-FL) U.S. Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT) U.S. Rep. John Campbell (R-CA) U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) U.S. Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) U.S. Rep. Vern Ehlers (R-MI) U.S. Rep. Tom Feeney (R-FL) U.S. Rep. Mike Ferguson (R-NJ) U.S. Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) U.S. Rep. Vito Fossella (R-NY) U.S. Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA) U.S. Rep. Melissa Hart (R-PA) U.S. Rep. Nancy Johnson (R-CT) U.S. Rep. Mark Foley (R-FL) U.S. Rep. Jim Ramstad (R-MN) U.S. Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL)When: Wednesday, May 10th 1:00 p.m. Where: Capitol Building Room HC-6 What: Members of the 50-strong House Suburban Caucus will unveil the “Suburban Agenda.” The Agenda includes legislation to directly meet the needs of suburban families across the U.S. Today, over half of Americans live in the suburbs. Four dozen suburban representatives have been working intensively for six months to refine a new agenda for Congress meeting key priorities in education, health care, economic growth and conservation. To address the needs of suburban families, the Suburban Caucus will announce the first in a series of legislative initiatives the Congress is working to enact in the coming months.
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured $500,000 in critical funding requested by the Cascade Water Alliance for the construction of the Central Segment Pipeline, which will connect the Tacoma and Seattle water systems with Cascade’s water system. “These funds will help to provide a safe, reliable and high-quality water supply to the region. Supply will also meet the current and projected demands of the region,” Reichert said. “The pipeline will enable more efficient and flexible use of our water resources and provide significant homeland security benefits. By helping to create redundant water delivery systems through the development of a water supply plan with other regional water providers, we are working to ensure Washington’s citizens are never without clean, safe water.” Procedurally this is the first step. These funds have been included in the US House of Representatives Interior, Environment and Related Agencies for FY 2007 appropriations request that will be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives. Following passage by the House, the Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Rep. Reichert will continue to fight for funds for this project and others, such as the funds for the Carbon River Land Acquisition for Mt. Rainer National Park that Reichert announced this morning, as they progress. Due to be completed in 2008, the Central Segment Pipeline would fully connect the Cascade Regional Water Supply System with the Seattle and Tacoma water systems, providing substantial benefit for the region. The pipeline will enable more efficient and flexible use of our water resources and provide significant homeland security benefits. The Central Segment Pipeline will also lay the groundwork for developing the long-term future infrastructure needed to bring the Lake Tapps Reservoir water supply into the Cascade Regional Water Supply System.
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured $1.5 million in critical funding for the Carbon River Land Acquisition near Mount Rainier National Park. Trust for Public Lands made this appropriations request and funding this project this year was a high priority for me given the need to address pressing landowner needs at the Park. Congress authorized an expansion of the Park in 2004 that specifically identified these properties for acquisition in order to enhance recreational access to the Carbon River and reduce management costs. “This funding ensures that the 2 million plus visitors who enjoy Mount Rainier National Park every year will have unfettered access to its beauty. The Carbon River Road, which affords visitors access to the northwest entrance of the Park, was frequently washed out. The acquisition of these lands will allow the National Park Service to establish a new campground with the associated roads, parking and trails to ensure access to the Park, to say nothing of the valuable natural resource we are preserving in acquiring this land,” Rep. Reichert said. "That's the best news I've heard in a while," said Sean Smith, Northwest Regional Director for the National Parks Conservation Association, speaking about Representative Dave Reichert's successful efforts to acquire funds for Mount Rainier's Carbon River expansion. "Future generations will surely thank Congressman Reichert for his continued effort to protect this crown jewel of the park system." “Rep. Reichert worked hard to secure funding for the Carbon River expansion of Mount Rainier, our most beautiful national park and regional economic anchor,” said Cathy Rigg, Executive Director of the Enumclaw Area Chamber of Commerce. “As a gateway community to this national treasure, it’s not only an honor but a responsibility to ensure its vitality. We appreciate Rep. Reichert’s continued support of Mount Rainier National Park and sincerely thank him for his efforts to promote and expand this vital community resource.” "This is truly a historic moment for the Carbon River," said Alan Front, Senior Vice President of the Trust for Public Land, a national nonprofit group that is working to protect the lands funded by the House bill. "Congressman Reichert's remarkable success in this bill represents the best news yet in the effort to protect the irreplaceable resources of this gateway to Mount Rainier. Given the severe budget constraints this year, most federal land conservation proposals across the country were left out of the bill, and only a small handful of national conservation priorities made the cut. Especially in this tough fiscal climate, what Congressman Reichert was able to do today for Mount Rainier is nothing short of miraculous."
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), co-sponsor of the bi-partisan SAFE Port Act (Security and Accountability for Every Port Act), H.R. 4954, praised its passage by the U.S. House of Representatives today, 421-2. Two amendments Reichert offered were attached to the bill. Rep. Reichert has been meeting regularly with Longshoremen in Washington State, discussing their concerns about port security and training. Reichert’s amendments were drafted as a result of these collaborative efforts. “I’ve been regularly meeting with management and labor at our nation’s ports to identify these gaps. Mr. Pascrell, the Ranking Member on my Committee, and I crafted these bi-partisan amendments, the importance of which were impressed upon us by those workers who are working daily at the country's ports. It was with their cooperation and support we were able to address their concerns with these two amendments,” Rep. Reichert said. Reichert continued, “The first amendment requires DHS to establish a Port Security Training Program to help the Nation’s commercial seaports to prevent, prepare for, respond to, mitigate against and recover from threatened or real acts of terrorism and emergencies. The second amendment requires DHS to establish a Port Security Exercise Program for the purpose of testing and evaluating the capabilities of Federal, State, territorial, local and international governments, commercial seaport personnel (longshoremen) and management, emergency response providers and the private sector.” James Spinosa, International President of the International Longshore & Warehouse Union, commented, “We are particularly pleased that Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Rep. William Pascrell (D-NJ) are expected to offer amendments creating a Port Security Training Program and Port Security Exercise Program for longshore workers. The Port Security Training Program amendment will be instrumental in coordinating and preparing for a major incident. The Port Security Exercise Program will prepare longshore workers and marine clerks to respond to an incident.” Reichert responded, “Working with Washington’s Longshoremen was very productive for me and I’m glad they feel it was too. I believe the amendments we worked together to create will serve their purpose in providing increased training and establishing an exercise program to make sure port personnel are prepared, practiced and equipped to protect our ports.”
02.10.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that he secured $500,000 in critical funding for the City of Carnation’s construction of a citywide sewer collection and conveyance system and a new wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and discharge facility. “This facility is important not only for the City of Carnation’s economic future, but for its residents’ way of life,” Reichert said. “As soon as the sewer system becomes available, new businesses will be opened, including new restaurants, which are currently restricted under the Health Code because of the septic system limitations. Residents and land owners will be able to build new homes and remodel existing homes and businesses. This goes a long way to improving the sewer quality for Carnation’s 1,900 residents.” “I would like to thank Congressman Reichert for his efforts on behalf of the citizens of Carnation. This an important project for the city and this funding will be valuable in implementing this vital sewer system,” said Bill Paulsen, Mayor of the City of Carnation. Procedurally this is the first step. These funds have been included in the US House of Representatives Interior, Environment and Related Agencies for FY 2007 appropriations request that will be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives. Following passage by the House, the Senate must pass a similar bill, and a final House and Senate conference report must pass both Chambers. Rep. Reichert will continue to fight for funds for this project and others, such as the funds for the Carbon River Land Acquisition for Mt. Rainer National Park that Reichert announced this morning, as they progress. The City of Carnation, a 100-year-old city, is served entirely by septic systems for sewage disposal (approximately 625 systems serving 1,900 residents). Many of these systems are so old they predate record-keeping by the local Health Department; a large proportion are over 60 years old. Over 70% of the systems were designed and built before the Health Code required septic systems to treat the sewage prior to discharging into the groundwater below. Approximately 70% of the parcels are smaller than the half-acre minimum required for a legal septic system installation today. A significant number of systems have failed and all areas of the city pose a current and growing health threat to the citizens and cause water quality degradation in the groundwater under the City and in the nearby Snoqualmie River.
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the passage of H.R. 4975, the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 – the most comprehensive lobbying reform bill passed in over a decade – by the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Reichert issued the following statement shortly after the bill’s passage today: “I came here to do things differently in DC, but the system was even worse than I thought. It must be fixed. Earmark reform is not just a necessary component of lobby reform, but also to decreasing government spending and for fiscally responsible government. Earmarks represent one of the biggest sources of unaccountable, and sometimes reckless, spending by lawmakers,“ Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “This bill requires that the earmarks accompanying a bill include their sponsor’s name. It also requires earmarks that are inserted during a bill’s conference be highlighted. Additionally, an amendment to the Act clarifies that a public official is prohibited from accepting anything of value with the intent to influence an earmark.�? “From now on, the earmark process will have greater transparency, and not only that, it will also have a stunting affect on pork projects and therefore reduce spending and bring fiscal responsibility to Congress. Some earmarks are for legitimately worthy projects, and I will be proud to put my name next to them, like the money we got for the Washington State Meth Initiative last year. Others, however, are pure pork and the light of day will help dry them up,�? Reichert concluded. Among other things, the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 does the following: Strengthens lobbyist disclosure requirements and the frequency of filings by creating an online database at the fingertips of the American people. Requires members of Congress to forfeit retirement benefits if convicted of bribery, including conspiracy charges Ensures that members cannot condition official acts based on the employment decision of an outside entity or private business Suspends privately funded travel until the bi-partisan Ethics Committee makes recommendations on gifts and travel rules Seeks to curtail the number of Member appropriation projects by enhancing transparency. The new system for appropriation requests is already working. Appropriation requests are down 37% from last year.
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) explained the importance of H.R. 5253, Federal Energy Price Protection Act of 2006, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Federal Energy Price Protection Act will lay the framework to protect consumers from those who would seek to engage in price gouging. The Act requires the Federal Trade Commission to create a definition of price gouging, and will allow for the civil and criminal prosecution of those who engage in price gouging. “We keep hearing from the President that there is no evidence of price gouging, but what we don’t have is an accepted definition of price gouging. This bill directs the FTC to define price gouging, which will allow the FTC to objectively determine if consumers are the victims of price gouging. Consumers at the mercy of energy companies have to be protected. Instances of price gouging will be aggressively prosecuted and subject to civil and criminal penalties,” Rep. Reichert said. Highlights from the Federal Energy Price Protection Act of 2006: Ø The Federal Energy Price Protection Act prohibits price gouging – at any time – in the market for gasoline, diesel fuel, crude oil, home heating oil and biofuels. Ø Specifically, the Federal Energy Price Protection Act: o Directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to define “price gouging,” “wholesale sale” and “retail sale” through rule-making; § The existing state statutes in this area have vastly different definitions and interpretations. Under a rulemaking, the FTC would have the benefit of receiving, and the obligation to consider, comment from interested parties on the definition of price gouging. § The FTC would be required to define price gouging within six months of enactment. o Provides for strong civil enforcement by the FTC and by states’ attorneys general, and criminal enforcement by the U.S. attorney general and the Department of Justice; and, o Provides for both civil and criminal penalties for price gouging.
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is hosting two more workshops to help inform seniors and their loved ones about the details of the new Medicare prescription drug program before the deadline for enrollment on May 15, 2006. These are the 11th and 12th workshops Rep. Reichert has held since January to help seniors determine if a Medicare prescription drug plan is right for them. “I want to make sure my constituents are aware of the Limited-Income Subsidy (LIS) Enrollment Opportunity. Medicare beneficiaries that qualify after May 15, 2006 for the limited-income subsidy (LIS) available through the Medicare prescription drug program, will have a one-time opportunity using a special enrollment period to enroll in the Medicare prescription drug benefit if they have not already done so,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “This enrollment period allows these beneficiaries to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan immediately after they become qualified for the LIS, even if it’s after May 15. This allows beneficiaries that are newly qualified for LIS to take advantage of a one-time opportunity to enroll when they qualify.” Everyone is invited to attend these workshops where there will be opportunities to ask questions and speak with experts from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Social Security Administration and Statewide Health Insurance Benefits advisors about the prescription drug program. Anyone interested in more information may call Rep. Reichert’s office toll free at (877) 920-9208. EATONVILLE Wednesday, May 10th Eatonville Multi-Purpose Center 305 West Center Street 12:30 PM to 1:30 PM RENTON Monday, May 8th Evergreen Place 1414 Monroe Avenue NE 10:00-11:00 presentation and Q & A in main room at Evergreen Place 11:00-11:30 additional time for Q & A in activity rooms near main room With special guest, James Whitfield, Regional Director of HHS
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) invites his constituents to a grant and funding workshop he is hosting on May 15, 2006, from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm, at the Carco Theater in Renton. Rep. Reichert is offering constituents the opportunity to learn about funding opportunities at the federal, state and local levels, as well as learning about how partnering with other organizations can strengthen their funding requests. Congressman Reichert invites constituents to learn from the experts. Among the scheduled speakers are James Whitfield, Regional Director of HHS, John Meyers, Regional Director of HUD, Donna Foxley, Secretary of Education’s Regional Rep, Nancy Gilbertson, District Director of SBA and Jeannette Privat, Nonprofit & Philanthropy Resource Center. “I encourage anyone who believes they may benefit from applying for funding from a federal, state or local entity to attend. Not only are we going to have experts from various federal agencies and departments on hand to speak about the funds available from their offices, but we’ll also have experts there to show you how to strengthen your application and show you how to avoid common mistakes. It’s a great opportunity to hear from individuals intimately involved in the process and who come at it from many different perspectives.” Who: Congressman Dave Reichert What: Grant and Funding Workshop Informative sessions and panels presented by key federal, state and community partners When: Monday, May 15, 2006, 8:00 AM – 4:00 PM Registration deadline is May 8, 2006 Where: Carco Theater in Renton, WA Contact: For more information or to download an application, visit Congressman Reichert’s website: www.house.gov/reichert Questions? Contact Gwen Fraser, Grants Coordinator Tel: (206) 275-3438 Fax: (206) 275-3437 Gwen.Fraser@mail.house.gov
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, announced today that he has drafted legislation that will address the national emergency response problems exposed by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita last year. The legislation will mandate specific and substantial changes within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), especially within the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “As someone who has spent more than 30 years as a first responder, I know that the success of disaster response hinges on how well it is executed at the local level,” Reichert said. “Emergency management at the Federal level will be greatly enhanced by adopting a bottom-up strategy that helps local governments be more effective. Our legislation emphasizes the need to plan, train, and exercise in a coordinated manner with State, local, and tribal governments. By doing so, we will truly establish a national emergency management system.” The Members making the announcement were Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY), Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, and Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Bob Etheridge (D-NC), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Investigations. The legislation, as drafted, includes a number of reforms to enhance the performance of FEMA and DHS, including: Ø elevating, strengthening, and better integrating FEMA into DHS, Ø providing FEMA with greatly enhanced resources; Ø elevating the Director of FEMA to Undersecretary for Emergency Preparedness, and mandating that he/she report directly to the President in a time of crisis; Ø requiring that the Undersecretary be an individual who possesses a demonstrated ability in and knowledge of emergency management and incident response; Ø and establishing DHS Regional Offices and Regional Directors to more effectively coordinate with State and local officials, emergency response providers, and emergency response support providers, such as utilities, public health, public works, and transportation personnel.
01.23.2008	TODAY at 11:45am EST – the same day Exxon is expected to announce their first quarter 2006 profit figures – Democrat and Republican Members of Congress, led by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), will join with victims of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in a press conference to call on Exxon to end the company’s nearly two-decades old delay tactics and fulfill its responsibilities to the more than 33,000 victims of the negligence that resulted in the Valdez disaster. Five years after Exxon’s negligence led to the Valdez running aground in Prince William Sound, Alaska, spilling more than 11 million gallons of oil and devastating local economies and lives, a jury awarded victims of the spill punitive damages which now stand at $4.5 billion. During the twelve years since then, and despite an accrual of corporate profits that culminated in last year’s world-record $36 billion, Exxon has continued to engage in a deliberate strategy of legal delay to avoid paying the victims, now spread across the country. It is well past time for Exxon to end these delays and fulfill its responsibilities to the victims of the Exxon Valdez. When: Today, April 27th 11:45am (EST) Set-up for cameras: 11:30am What: Press Conference Who: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) House Republican Conference Chairwoman Deborah Pryce (R-OH) Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) Victims of the Exxon Valdez disaster Where: Cannon Terrace Cannon House Office Building Why: To call on Exxon to stop its legal delay strategy and fulfill its responsibility to the victims of the Valdez.
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), cosponsor of The Iran Freedom Support Act, H.R. 282, released the following statement after the bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives, today: “Today’s action by the House of Representatives sends a clear message to Iran and its enablers in the international community that the United States will not tolerate the continued development of Iran’s nuclear program and that Iran must halt their threatening policies.” Reichert continued, ”The bill had overwhelming bi-partisan support, with 360 Members of the House of Representatives co-sponsoring it. My colleagues and I are in strong agreement that Iran’s pursuit of a clandestine nuclear weapons program is unacceptable. The Iran Freedom Support Act provides the Administration with the tools to pressure the Iranian regime to stop their threatening policies immediately. It also provides a way for the U.S. to leverage effective cooperation from our allies. We must make every effort to neutralize this threat peacefully, but be ever mindful of the growing danger Iran poses not just to a safe and free America, but to our allies abroad.“ What the Iran Freedom Support Act, H.R. 282, does: · codify bilateral U.S. sanctions against Iran and strengthens third-party sanctions through amendments to the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act; · impose sanctions on all parties that invest in Iran, including public and private financiers and lenders who back investment projects in Iran; · make the removal of sanctions contingent upon a Presidential certification that Iran no longer poses a threat to the national security of the United States, its interests, or allies; · provide U.S. assistance to pro-democracy groups in Iran and to independent broadcasts into Iran from abroad.
01.23.2008	At 11:45am EST on Thursday, April 27 – the same day Exxon is expected to announce their first quarter 2006 profit figures – Democrat and Republican Members of Congress, led by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), will join with victims of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in a press conference to call on Exxon to end the company’s nearly two-decades old delay tactics and fulfill its responsibilities to the more than 33,000 victims of the negligence that resulted in the Valdez disaster. Five years after Exxon’s negligence led to the Valdez running aground in Prince William Sound, Alaska, spilling more than 11 million gallons of oil and devastating local economies and lives, a jury awarded victims of the spill punitive damages which now stand at $4.5 billion. During the twelve years since then, and despite an accrual of corporate profits that culminated in last year’s world-record $36 billion, Exxon has continued to engage in a deliberate strategy of legal delay to avoid paying the victims, now spread across the country. It is well past time for Exxon to end these delays and fulfill its responsibilities to the victims of the Exxon Valdez. When: Thursday, April 27th 11:45am (EST) Set-up for cameras: 11:20am What: Press Conference Who: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) confirmed House Republican Conference Chairwoman Deborah Pryce (R-OH) confirmed Victims of the Exxon Valdez disaster confirmed Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) tentative Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT) tentative Where: Cannon Terrace Cannon House Office Building Why: To call on Exxon to stop its legal delay strategy and fulfill its responsibility to the victims of the Valdez.
01.23.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the passage of the Law Enforcement and Phone Privacy Protection Act of 2006, H.R. 4709, by the House of Representatives yesterday. Reichert is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, joining Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), in support of this bill that protects a cell phone user’s private information. “This bill makes it a felony to fraudulently obtain a cell phone user’s private information. Right now, there are web sites out there that will sell private information associated with a particular phone number. While it’s illegal to disclose this information, the owners of these web sites use deceptive methods to obtain the information, like “pretexting,” which is pretending to be the account holder to get access to the information and then selling it,” Rep. Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “In this day and age, when identity fraud and theft is on the rise and we are more likely than not to be victims of it ourselves, this bill takes logical, practical steps to protect personal information. I’m glad my colleagues in the House joined me in recognizing the need for the protection this bill provides. It is common sense; your call records are your business, and certainly your account number is. This bill protects that information.” What The Law Enforcement and Phone Privacy Protection Act of 2006, H.R. 4709, does: H.R.4709 amends the federal criminal code to prohibit the obtaining of confidential phone records information from a telecommunications carrier or IP-enabled voice service provider ("covered entity") by: making false or fraudulent statements to an employee of a covered entity or to a customer of a covered entity; providing false or fraudulent documents to a covered entity; or accessing customer accounts of a covered entity through the Internet without prior authorization. The measure imposes a fine and/or imprisonment of up to 20 years. H.R. 4709 prohibits the unauthorized sale or transfer of confidential phone records information by any person, including any employee of a covered entity or any data broker, or the purchase of such information with knowledge that it was fraudulently obtained or obtained without authorization. The resolution imposes a fine and/or imprisonment of up to five years. H.R. 4709 doubles the fines and imposes an additional five-year prison term for violations occurring in a 12-month period involving more than $100,000 or more than 50 customers of a covered entity. The measure imposes an additional five-year prison term for violations involving the use of confidential phone records information to commit crimes of violence, crimes of domestic violence, and crimes against law enforcement officials and the administration of justice.
01.23.2008	Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, Peter King, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Michael P. Jackson, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Jayson Ahern, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Vayl Oxford, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office will discuss new port security measures and legislation on Tuesday, April 25th at 11:00 am at the base of the Rayburn House Office Building horseshoe driveway. WHO: Chairman Dave Reichert, Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY) Honorable Michael P. Jackson, Deputy Secretary, DHS Jayson Ahern, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Vayl Oxford, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO) Members of the Committee on Homeland Security WHAT: Discussing new port security measures and legislation CBP to display new mobile Radiation Portal Monitors (RPMs) WHEN: 11 a.m., Tuesday, April 25, 2006 WHERE: Base of the Rayburn HOB Horseshoe Driveway Between Rayburn HOB and Longworth HOB South Capitol Street Washington, DC 20515 BACKGROUND On Tuesday, Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY) and Members of the Committee will welcome the Honorable Michael P. Jackson, Deputy Secretary for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), as well as officials from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO), to discuss new port security measures as well as the “SAFE Port Act,” port security legislation that will be voted on by the Committee on Wednesday, April 26th. During the press conference, CBP will have two new mobile Radiation Portal Monitors (RPMs) on display. The equipment represents the latest in port security technology.
01.23.2008	Tomorrow, Saturday, April 22nd, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will speak at a rally against meth hosted by the Mothers Against Meth of South King County. Reichert will speak to members of the local community, activists and local law enforcement officials, encouraging them in their fight to combat the scourge of methamphetamine labs and abuse in their communities. “I’ve been on the front lines of the fight against meth since I was Sheriff of King County. I’ve taken that experience and used it in Congress to provide strong tools for local officials as they wage the fight against meth in their communities. Meth doesn’t just harm those who abuse it, but also their families and the communities where they live. The effects are far-reaching and include higher incidents of identity theft, increased instances of child abuse and often the release of toxic waste down household drains and of poisonous gasses into the air. Additionally, due to the highly flammable nature of the substances used to produce it, meth labs pose a clear danger to police when they discover them,” Reichert explained. Rep. Reichert concluded, “One of the areas where meth is most widely available is in the Pacific Northwest. While Washington State has made great strides in our fight against meth, we cannot lessen our focus on, or our dedication to, removing meth from our communities.” What: Rep. Dave Reichert speaks at Mothers Against Meth rally Where: Kent Church of the Nazarene 930 East James Street Kent, WA When: Saturday, April 22nd, 1:00 pm Who: Dave Reichert, Congressman, Washington’s 8th District Sue Rahr, King County Sheriff
01.23.2008	U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY), Ranking Member Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Reps. David G. Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, released the following statement today calling on Congress to keep the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): “FEMA’s response to Hurricane Katrina left no doubt that the agency needs to be reformed, but simply removing it from the Department of Homeland Security will not address its fundamental problems. With less than 80 days until the start of the next hurricane season, FEMA must be focused on its critical responsibilities and not on a large-scale restructuring. “Removing FEMA from DHS would only exacerbate the agency's problems. It would reduce the FEMA’s access to the vast resources available within the Department, create duplicative response efforts for natural and manmade disasters and significantly delay our ability to prepare for future emergencies. It is imperative that we strengthen FEMA while keeping it within DHS. In order to do that, we must work to ensure that the agency has permanent and qualified leadership as well as the resources it requires to fulfill its charge of disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. “There is no doubt that FEMA needs to be improved, but removing the agency from DHS is clearly not the answer."
01.20.2008	Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, jointly touted their bi-partisan approach to addressing pressing homeland security concerns during their field hearing today on “Planning and Preparedness: Federal, State and Local Coordination”. Witnesses discussed the current level of coordination in preparing for a future catastrophic event. The hearing occurred in Orting, at the Multi-Purpose Center located at the base of Mt. Rainer, itself a site ripe for natural disaster due to its location. “I wanted to take out the partisan wrangling that often occurs in committee when I was appointed Chair of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, and I knew I had a strong partner in Bill to do it,” Rep. Reichert said. “To that end, I began circulating bi-partisan committee briefing memos and our staffs are working jointly to develop bi-partisan legislation. Bill has been supportive of these efforts and I credit our working relationship with a great deal of the committee’s success.” “The testimony we heard from today’s witnesses highlights the importance of working together for a common goal as well. Partisanship compromises partnership, and it is only strong partnerships that will prepare us to respond fully and capably in the wake of future disasters. I invited Under Secretary Foresman to sit on a panel with state, local and private officials, so that he could hear of Washington State’s successes and concerns and take those back to DC. The most senior preparedness officials need to have that kind of familiarity with what local officials are facing. We must continue to look at a bottom-up strategy,“ Rep. Reichert explained. Rep. Pascrell responded, “Despite being thousands of miles away, first responders in New Jersey and those who I have met here in Washington State share strikingly similar concerns over emergency planning and response. As we learned today, a general lack of interoperability is as great a concern all across the nation. I was proud to stand with Chairman Reichert to discuss legislation that we will introduce in the coming weeks to provide the tools, resources and personnel to achieve full interoperability.” Testifying before the Subcommittee today: Panel 1 – Representatives from federal, state and local government as well as private business to discuss the current level of coordination in preparing for a future catastrophic event Honorable George Foresman, Under Secretary of Preparedness, Department of Homeland Security Mr. Jim Mullen, Director, Division of Emergency Management, State of Washington Mr. Steven Bailey, Director, Pierce County, Department of Emergency Management Fire Chief Mario H. Treviño, City of Bellevue Fire Department Mr. William “Bill” Mitzel, MS, ARM, ALCM, Risk Control Specialist, Home Office Commercial Lines, Uniguard Insurance Group Panel 2 - First and essential responders including, fire, law enforcement, public works, public utilities, and public health Sheriff Paul A. Pastor, Jr., Pierce County Sheriff’s Office Assistant Fire Chief A.D. Vickery, City of Seattle Fire Department Mr. Michael Loehr, Director of Preparedness, Public Health - Seattle and King County William “Bill” Pugh, Director of Public Works / Assistant City Manager, City of Tacoma Roger Serra, Seattle City Light
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology is hosting a bi-partisan field hearing with the subcommittee’s ranking member, Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-08), on “Planning and Preparedness: Federal State and Local Coordination” on April 12, 2006. Following testimony by the first panel of witnesses, there will be a press conference featuring Chairman Reichert, Ranking Member Pascrell and George Foresman, Under Secretary of Preparedness for the Department of Homeland Security. Chairman Reichert will make an announcement regarding bipartisan interoperability legislation he is introducing at the press conference. House Committee on Homeland SecuritySubcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and TechnologyField Hearing: “Planning and Preparedness: Federal, State and Local Coordination” April 12, 2006 Where Multi-Purpose Center202 Washington Ave, South Orting, WA 98360 Agenda 9:00am Welcoming Remarks 9:05am Chairman Reichert gavels in the hearing, gives opening remarks 9:10am Ranking Member Pascrell gives opening remarks 9:15am Panel 1: Witnesses from federal, state and local government as well as private business will discuss the current level of coordination in preparing for a future catastrophic event 10:45am Committee stands in recess 10:50am Press Conference with Chairman Reichert, Ranking Member Pascrell and Under Secretary Foresman City of Orting Fire Department 110 Train Street SE Orting, WA 98360 Located across the street from the Multi-Purpose Center 11:15am Panel 2: Witnesses will be comprised of first and essential responders including, fire, law enforcement, public works, public utilities and public health. 12:30am Committee stands adjourned
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is hosting six more workshops to help inform seniors and their loved ones about the details of the new Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage plan as well as to offer seniors access to the plan’s experts and the option of signing up. Medicare prescription drug coverage offers insurance coverage for prescription drugs through a variety of prescription drug plans and other health plan options. Everyone that qualifies for Medicare is eligible for this new benefit. For those who choose to enroll in the plan, Medicare's new prescription drug coverage will typically pay over half of a senior’s yearly drug costs for a monthly premium. Seniors who have signed up are saving an average of $1,100 a year on their prescription drug costs. The deadline for enrollment in this plan is May 15, 2006. Everyone is invited to attend these workshops where there will be opportunities to ask questions and speak with experts from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Social Security Administration and Statewide Health Insurance Benefits advisors about this new program. Anyone interested in more information regarding these workshops and the new benefit can call Rep. Reichert’s office toll free at 1-877-920-9208. EATONVILLE Wednesday, May 10th Eatonville Multi-Purpose Center 305 West Center Street 12:30 PM to 1:30 PM ORTING April 14th Orting Multi-Purpose Center 202 Washington Avenue South 1:00 PM to 2:00 PM CARNATION April 19th Sno-Valley Senior Center 4610 Stephens Avenue 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM BELLEVUE Monday, April 24th South Bellevue Community Center at Eastgate Park 14509 SE Newport Way 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM BONNEY LAKE Wednesday, April 26th Bonney Lake Senior Center 19304 Bonney Lake Blvd 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM ENUMCLAW Friday, April 28th Enumclaw Senior Center in Enumclaw 1350 Cole Street, starting 12:30 PM to 1:30 PM
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined with fellow centrists Rep. Mike Castle (DE), Rep. Nancy Johnson (CT) and others to support a substitute amendment to the House budget resolution that would restore much needed funding for education, healthcare and Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Rep. Reichert released the following statement on the substitute: “I am concerned about the choices we are making. Instead of closing tax loopholes and eliminating waste in government, we too often look to eliminate the programs that are utilized by the neediest among us. Continued under funding of critical research and public health programs imperils the health of mothers and children today, including increasing numbers of infants born prematurely. In 2003 the estimated charges for hospital stays of premature and low-birth weight infants were $18.1 billion, almost half of which was billed to Medicaid; taxpayers paid almost $9 billion dollars in one year to care for those infants, many times the cost of programs that reduce the number of low-birth weight babies. “Additionally, the budget must reflect that education is a top priority. Cutting education funding at a time when education is a national priority that will improve our country’s competitiveness sends the wrong message. The 1.2 million high school students who did not graduate from high school in 2004 will cost the nation $325 billion in lost wages, taxes, and productivity over their lifetimes. Such a statistic has negative implications for the nation’s economy as well, not to mention that these individuals are not highly trained or skilled members of a workforce that increasingly demands it. “In the Deficit Reduction Act last year, we cut over $39 billion. We trimmed government and made difficult choices and it was important to do it. Now it’s time to make some easy choices—let’s look for spending cuts in other areas. I’m also concerned with the total, real costs of cutting programs in these areas. It’s shortsighted to cut discretionary spending in areas that will ultimately cost the taxpayer many times the number of dollars supposedly saved. Cutting discretionary spending for important healthcare and education programs will cost this government more in the long-run. We’re looking at saving $7billion in the short-term, instead of at the several hundred billion dollars these cuts will cost in the long-run” About the substitute: The increases in Education, Health and Labor in this amendment are based on making the FY07 funding levels EQUAL to the funding levels of FY06 (no inflation, just level funding). Education: $4.640 billion Health: $1.128 billion LIHEAP: $1.390 billion Total: $7.158 billion
01.20.2008	Rep. Reichert (WA-08) applauded the president’s chosen nominee, R. David Paulison, for the position of Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Rep. Reichert urged President Bush in October of last year to nominate Paulison after a meeting with the fire and rescue services veteran. Following today’s announcement, Rep. Reichert released the following statement: “I applaud the president’s choice. The Administration is starting to get it; you’ve got to have a first responder in charge of emergency preparedness. I was concerned when I heard the Administration was looking elsewhere because I knew they had the ideal candidate in Mr. Paulison. After Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Paulison stepped in and showed remarkable leadership in coordinating the federal response in the Gulf Coast Region. We need someone heading up FEMA with the ability and the experience to respond to all manner of disasters. Mr. Paulison has over 30 years of fire/rescue service and has a proven track record of overseeing the response to natural disasters; he’s overseen 25 disaster declarations since he assumed his position. As a former cop of 33 years, I know the importance of having real life experience.”
01.20.2008	Today Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) praised the passage of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006, H.R. 3127, which he cosponsored. The bill expresses the Sense of Congress with respect to the situation in the Darfur region of western Sudan and amends the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 to promote peace and accountability in Darfur. “What’s happening in Darfur is probably the worst human rights issue in the world today. The world should not turn a blind eye to the atrocities occurring in the region. Throughout history, the greatest human massacres have occurred largely because good men did nothing to stop them. Right now, it’s estimated that 10,000 people die each month and 400,000 have already been killed. How many more must die before the United States acts?” Reichert asked. Rep. Reichert continued, “This bill is a statement that action must be taken and it gives the president greater ability to assist the African Union Mission in Sudan, which is working to protect civilians and conduct humanitarian operations in the region. The bill authorizes additional assistance to the 7,000 African Union peacekeepers in Darfur and directs the president to work with NATO allies to provide additional support, transport and training. It also prohibits American visas for individuals who’ve committed these crimes.” The legislation also: Amends the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 to confer upon the President the authority to provide assistance to reinforce the deployment and operations of an expanded African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS), with the mandate and capacity to protect civilians and humanitarian operations, stabilize Darfur, and, as necessary, dissuade and deter air attacks directed against civilians and humanitarian operations; Calls on the international community, including the UN, the European Union (EU), and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), to immediately mobilize political, military and financial resources to support the expansion of AMIS; Amends the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 to impose targeted sanctions against individuals determined to be responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in Darfur; Prohibits the provision of non-humanitarian U.S. assistance to nations violating the military and arms embargo imposed pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions 1556 and 1591; and, Encourages the President to deny entry at U.S. ports to certain Sudanese cargo ships or oil tankers if the government of Sudan fails to take specified measures in Darfur.
01.20.2008	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce named Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) a recipient of their Spirit of Enterprise award. The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes. Votes are Chamber-designated "key votes," recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber’s board of directors on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. “The issues that are priorities to the Chamber of Commerce are priorities to me too—making health care affordable for small business owners, promoting free trade and strengthening our transportation infrastructure. I’ve enjoyed working with Chambers all across the 8th District, from Mercer Island and Bellevue Chambers in King County to the East Pierce Chamber in the southern part of the District. In particular I was pleased to help Bellevue get $9.2 million in funding for Phase II of the I-405 downtown circulation project, a key to the city’s economic development plans,” Rep. Reichert said. Rep. Reichert continued, “Washington’s local Chambers of Commerce are extremely effective advocates for local businesses and business interests. Betty Nokes from Bellevue was named the “2005 Chamber of Commerce Executive of the Year” by the Western Association of Chamber Executives for the Western United States. With advocates like her, it’s no wonder the Chambers in the 8th District are so effective.” Rep. Reichert supported the Chamber of Commerce position on key votes such as voting to permanently repeal the death tax and to extend the significant tax relief provided by the Tax Relief Extension Act, including language that was important to Washington State residents because it would extend the deduction allowed for states without an income tax and passing this before the end of 2005 ensured that Washington families would not suffer a massive tax increase. Reichert also voted for the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes much-needed funding for port and inland waterways projects, voting for the Small Business Health Fairness Act, which would expand the availability of health coverage under Small Business Health Plans and the promotion of free trade principles. Members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of key votes receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award. The 2005 Winners for the 109th Congress, 1st Session: Washington Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04) Rep. Cathy McMorris (WA-05) Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08)
01.20.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) voted for the College Access and Opportunity Act of 2005, H.R. 609, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 221 to 199. The Act reauthorizes the Higher Education Act and expands college access for low-and middle-income students. The bill reauthorizes the discretionary programs of the Higher Education Act, including the student aid programs in Title IV and teacher training programs, among others. It also provides year-round Pell grants, allowing students to finish their coursework on a more flexible schedule. “This bill builds upon the work this Congress has done to increase the accessibility of a high-quality college education to everyone, especially non-traditional, first-generation and low-income students, which have historically been underserved populations. Two programs that do a great job serving these students are TRIO and GEAR-Up, which the Act strengthens by providing more flexibility for institutions to serve different populations at multiple campuses, allowing veterans to participate in all TRIO programs and by ensuring the needs of low-income working adults can be successfully addressed,” Reichert explained. Reichert also voted for the Miller-Kildee-Scott-Davis-Grijalva substitute amendment to H.R. 609 which would have cut student loan interests rates by half. Unfortunately it narrowly failed to pass. “I heard from many constituents and students that supported this amendment,” Reichert said." “I also supported an amendment my colleague, Congresswoman McMorris, introduced that offers a multi-faceted approach to strengthening American competitiveness in mathematics, science and critical foreign languages within the existing framework of student aid and teacher training programs,” Reichert said. “The need for well-educated employees in these disciplines is particularly poignant to Washington’s 8th District, where high tech industry thrives. The need for qualified candidates to fill positions and move industry forward is ever-present.” The legislation will: Provide additional Pell Grant assistance for high-achieving first- and second-year college students; Increase funding for institutions that primarily serve minorities, such as historically black colleges and universities and historically black graduate institutions; Require institutions to have a transparent transfer of credit policy; Shine a spotlight on excessive tuition hikes; and Strengthen international and foreign-language study programs in the post-9/11 era.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced today that Sammamish High School in Bellevue received an award from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) of fifteen classic books on the theme of “Becoming American.” The award is part of the We the People Bookshelf program, which aims to encourage K-12 readers to explore significant American themes through classic works of literature. “A nation’s literature speaks to the character and history of its people. America is a nation of immigrants and the children of immigrants, so it is no surprise that ‘Becoming American’ is a great theme of American literature. This award of the We the People Bookshelf gives our community a chance to come together, read and share our own stories of how we have become Americans,” said Rep. Dave Reichert. "Even in a digital age, the local library continues to be a friendly place for children and families to gather and share the ideals that united us," said NEH Chairman Bruce Cole. "This year’s We the People Bookshelf gives readers young and old an opportunity to reflect on the great American virtues of freedom and courage.” The We the People Bookshelf program will distribute two thousand sets of books to neighborhood and public school libraries, as well as private schools, charter schools, tribal schools, and military schools in all 50 states. Each library will receive a set of the 15 books, posters, bookmarks, and other promotional materials from NEH through the American Library Association (ALA), which is working in partnership with the Endowment. As part of the award, libraries are organizing programs or events to raise awareness of these classic books and engage young readers. The We the People Bookshelf on "Becoming American" contains the following books: Grades 9-12: · Death Comes for the Archbishop by Willa Cather · Barrio Boy by Ernesto Galarza · Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, edited by Louis P. Masur · Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie by Ole Edvart Rølvaag The bookshelf program is part of the NEH’s We the People initiative, which supports projects that strengthen the teaching, study and understanding of American history and culture.
01.20.2008	Tom Young, a Constituent Liaison handling veterans and military affairs issues in Rep. Dave Reichert’s (WA-08) district office, was recently recognized by the Seattle District US Army Corp of Engineers for his “service to the command and military in general.” On March 2nd, Colonel Debra Lewis, Commander of the Seattle District US Army Corp of Engineers, presented a command coin to Young. Army commands can have special coins made to distribute in recognition of service to the command and military in general. Col. Lewis presented Young with the first ever command coin awarded by the Seattle District Army Corp of Engineers for service to the military. Young received the command coin for improving the citizen-military relationship and for helping the Army do its job better. Young’s work on the Academy Nominations process--where a Member of Congress may nominate students from his or her district to attend a military service academy--was a large part of the reason for the award. “I am honored by the award of a command coin from Colonel Lewis and while I don’t feel I deserve any acknowledgement, I will work hard to make sure I live up to the spirit of service to our military that this award represents. It looks like this year we’ll have the largest group of cadets ever sent to West Point from Washington’s 8th district, which is a testament not only to the great young men and women in our district, but also to the opportunities the military academies present to them,” Tom Young explained. Young continued, “At the West Point friends and alumni Founder’s Day dinner held at Ft. Lewis, the director of West Point Admissions said that the work of the West Point Field Force in Washington State was a national model of how things should work. Afterwards, he told me that the 8th district is the best at working and coordinating with the field force. The real credit goes to the West Point Field Force and how closely they are willing to work with me.” “I couldn’t be prouder of Tom or the service he’s provided to the district. He has taken the Academy Nominations process and really made it easy for students to navigate and has done a great job making sure the military service academies know what outstanding students the 8th district has,” Rep. Reichert explained. Rep. Reichert continued, “When I established my congressional offices, I wanted them to work for the same principles that the Sheriff’s office did when I was Sheriff --Leadership, Integrity, Service and Teamwork. This award lets me know that we’re operating exactly how I intended us to.”
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is a cosponsor of the Respect for America's Fallen Heroes Act, introduced today Congressman Mike Rogers (MI-08). The bill will restrict protests at funerals at national cemeteries for 60 minutes before or after a funeral. It would also restrict any protests from occurring within 500 feet of the grave site or individuals they are protesting. In response to reports of organized protests occurring throughout the United States at funerals of soldiers killed in the War on Terror, Representatives Reichert, Rogers and others responded to protect the solemnity of funeral services for the fallen soldiers’ grieving families and loved ones by introducing the Act. “I believe that everyone can appreciate the right of a family to grieve the loss of a loved one in peace, regardless of anyone’s position on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am personally grateful for the service of every member of America’s Armed Forces. At a family’s most difficult time, I want to make sure at a minimum that they have the very basic of comforts: the ability to grieve their loss privately and the knowledge that their country is grateful for their loved one’s sacrifice and service,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, "I believe that the freedom of speech should be protected, but so should a family's right to privacy as they grieve their loss. There is a time and a place for vigorous debate on the War on Terror, but during a family’s last goodbye is not it." The legislation would: Ban all demonstrations 60 minutes prior to and after funerals taking place at Department of Veterans Affairs' national cemeteries or the Department of Army's Arlington National Cemetery (the only areas the federal government maintains jurisdiction over); Impose a 500-foot restriction on demonstrations at national cemeteries and Arlington National Cemetery; Allow for a civil infraction for violations, including monetary fines and/or jail time of six months to a year, as consistent with the authority granted to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under current regulation; and Express the sense of Congress that all states should enact similar bans for state and private cemeteries, as well as funeral homes. These restrictions are consistent with several U.S. Supreme Court rulings. In Frisby v. Schultz, 4 U.S. 474, 481 (1988), the Court ruled that regulations of the time, place, and manner of expression which are content-neutral, are narrowly tailored to serve a significant government interest, and leave open amply alternative channels of communication.” And that “[t]he First Amendment permits the government to prohibit offensive speech as intrusive when the 'captive' audience cannot avoid the objectionable speech.” Additionally, two Federal appellate courts have upheld policies the Department of Veterans Affairs uses to protect the integrity of national cemeteries: Griffin v. Department of Veterans Affairs 274 F.3d 818 (4th Circuit 2001) and Griffin v. Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Griffin II) 288 F.3d 1309 (Federal Circuit 2002).
01.20.2008	Today, on the 17th anniversary of one of the most devastating environmental disasters in the history of the U.S., Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) announced that he is circulating a letter to his colleagues, requesting their assistance in getting long-awaited financial compensation to those financially devastated by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. “I’m frankly appalled that after almost 20 years, the fisherman and others who lost their livelihoods as a result of Exxon’s negligence still have not received a single penny of the punitive damages awarded to them by a federal jury. ExxonMobil earned $36 billion last year, a record for a single company, yet it still has not paid any of the punitive damages to people harmed by this disaster. Today marks the 17th anniversary of the spill. 33,000 fishermen, businesses, and affected communities are still waiting for just compensation,” Rep. Reichert said. Reichert continued, “I’m asking my colleagues to join me in urging Rex Tillerson, Chairman and CEO of ExxonMobil, to finally resolve the protracted litigation resulting from the disastrous events of the Exxon Valdez oil spill. It’s been 12 years since the court case that awarded the damages was settled. That’s far too long to wait for compensation for losing one’s business and livelihood. It’s time for ExxonMobil to do the right thing and give those who’ve suffered from the company’s negligence full relief.” BY THE NUMBERS: $4.5 billion – punitive damages awarded by a federal jury $25 million – punitive damages Exxon claims it should pay $36 billion – ExxonMobil 2005 profit; largest profit in history by a single company. 33,000 – unpaid plaintiffs 11 million – gallons of crude spilled into Prince William Sound 1,300 – miles of once pristine coastline damaged 2,800 – sea otters killed by spill* 35,000 – birds killed by spill* *Estimate by Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will host representatives from Statewide office, King and Pierce counties, and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program at a roundtable discussion with Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), John Walters, on Wednesday, March 22nd. The topic of the roundtable will be the successes King County and Pierce County have achieved in their fight against meth. What: Washington leaders share with ONDCP Director Walters what techniques and approaches in the fight against meth have worked for them and could be used successfully in other states. When: Wednesday, March 22nd from 8:15 a.m. – 9:15 a.m. Where: The Project Room Mill Creek Middle School 620 North Central Avenue Kent, Washington 98032 Parking is on the corner of East Pioneer and State Ave S. Please enter from the back side of the school. Who: Rep. Dave Reichert – Introduces Director Walters ONDCP Director John Walters – Introductory remarks *Press is invited for Reichert’s and Walters’ remarks. Roundtable discussion will be a private, closed-door session. Statewide Representatives: Rob McKenna, Washington State Attorney General Mark Couey, Captain, Washington State Patrol Investigative Assistance Division John Lane, Governor’s Meth Coordinating Committee co-chair, Criminal Justice Policy Advisor, Office of Governor Gregoire King County Representatives: Sue Rahr, King County Sheriff Clark Kimerer, Deputy Chief, City of Seattle Police Department Dan Clark, Senior Deputy Prosecutor, King County Prosecutor’s Office, also Director of Operations in the Kent Regional Justice Center Roger Baker, President of King County Chiefs Association, Des Moines PD Chief Laura Edwards, Coordinator - Community Organizing Program, King County Meth Action Team Suzette Cooke, Mayor of Kent, WA Pierce County Representatives: Paul Pastor, Pierce County Sheriff Richard McCrea, Assistant Chief, Tacoma Police Department Gerald Horne, Pierce County prosecuting attorney Robin James, President of Pierce County Chiefs Association, Puyallup PD Chief Priscilla Lisicich, Ph.D., Executive Director of Safe Streets Campaign, Washington State Meth Initiative Terree Schmidt-Whelan, Ph.D., Executive Director of Pierce County Alliance, Washington State Meth Initiative HIDTA Representative: Dave Rodriguez, Northwest HIDTA Director
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, John Walters, will tour the Pediatric Interim Care Center (PICC) on 233 South 2nd Avenue in Kent, Washington on Wednesday, March 22nd, from 9:20 a.m. to 9:45 a.m. Following the tour there will be a press conference featuring the tour participants. “PICC is very important to me and my family and it is an organization whose mission I believe in wholeheartedly. I invited Director Walters out to tour PICC with me so that he can see the unique services PICC provides firsthand. I think once you see some of the small, suffering newborns PICC takes in and then see the happy, healthy children those babies become, you fully realize the incredible value of the care PICC provides. Two of my grandchildren were adopted from PICC and I am eternally grateful for the care and assistance they received here,” Reichert said. Schedule:9:20 a.m. – 9:45 a.m. Tour of PICC 9:45 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Press Conference Participants: · Barb Drennan, Executive Director of PICC · Dave Reichert, Representative from Washington’s 8th District · John Walters, Director of the ONDCP · Rob McKenna, Washington State Attorney General Attendees (not speaking): · Harry Hansen, PICC board member and CIA agent with Northwest HIDTA · Ken Kilbreath, President of PICC board · Foster parents of PICC newborn · Biological parents of PICC newborn PICC is a one-of-a-kind, model program that provides specialized, round-the-clock care for drug-exposed and medically fragile newborns. More than 12,000 infants born in Washington State each year have been exposed prenatally to illicit drugs. Many of these infants suffer serious effects from drug exposure and need the help that only PICC provides.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology of the House Committee on Homeland Security, chairs his first committee mark-up tomorrow, Wednesday, March 15, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. in 311 Cannon House Office Building. Joining him is Ranking Member Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-08), as they consider H.R. 4942, the Promoting Antiterrorism Capabilities Through International Cooperation Act and H.R. 4941, the Homeland Security Science and Technology Enhancement Act of 2006. “This markup is my first as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology. And, for that reason, I am especially pleased that – in my inaugural markup – the Subcommittee will be examining these two important pieces of legislation. One of those, H.R. 4941, is the bi-partisan bill Bill Pascrell and I introduced Tuesday. Our bill will help get good technology into the hands of the men and women who need it faster,” Reichert explained. H.R. 4941, the Homeland Security Science and Technology Enhancement Act of 2006, would establish several more new S&T Directorate programs and activities and would direct the Secretary to, among other things: · support the development, promulgation, and updating of national voluntary consensus standards for first responder equipment and training and critical infrastructure information or mapping systems; · establish a technology development and transfer program to facilitate the identification, modification, and commercialization of promising homeland security technologies and equipment; · establish a regional technology integration program to facilitate the transition of innovative technologies and operational concepts to urban and other high risk jurisdictions; · support research and development, including fundamental, long-term research, in cybersecurity; and · establish a demonstration program, in consultation with the Department’s Privacy Officer, to test the effectiveness and varied applications of surveillance systems.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was named one of “The Centrists,” members at the ideological center, of the U.S. House of Representatives in the February 25, 2006 edition of National Journal. The article, entitled “Down The Middle”, ranks members of the House and Senate ideologically using their 2005 vote ratings. Members with composite scores closest to 50 are at the exact center of each chamber. Dave Reichert’s composite score was 45 percent liberal – 55 percent conservative, putting him at the ideological center of the House. Reichert was the only member from Washington State’s delegation to be recognized as a centrist. “When I look at my colleagues who’ve been recognized as centrists, I realize what we have in common is that we’re all problem solvers. None of us toe the party line all the time, which is pretty clear when you look at this list and our successes, such as repeatedly preventing drilling in ANWR and getting provisions important to Children’s Hospitals included in the Deficit Reduction Act. We’re all independent thinkers who put our district’s needs first and work cooperatively with leadership to make sure those needs are met.” Reichert continued, “I’m pleased that my approach to this job, which is to always treat people respectfully and to work with those who are most dedicated to finding solutions regardless of party affiliation, is producing such positive results. This year as my subcommittee tackles the interoperability and operability problems our first responders face, it’s this same approach that is going to make my subcommittee produce results and a solution to the problem.” “At the center of National Journal’s 2005 congressional vote ratings are the mainstream Republican moderates and the conservative mavericks who boldly defied President Bush and GOP leaders,” National Journal writes. The article continued by recognizing the Centrists for “exercising newfound influence and creating plenty of headaches for President Bush and GOP leaders” on issues such as “federal budget belt-tightening” and forcing “Republican leaders to drop a provision authorizing oil drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.”
01.20.2008	To aid in the fight against blood cancers, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will head up 1,311 stairs Sunday, March 19th, at Seattle’s Big Climb for Leukemia at the Columbia Center. Reichert will join 70 climbers from Project Trevor, a team honoring Trevor Price, a 12-year-old from Sammamish diagnosed with Leukemia. Trevor’s struggle against leukemia inspired Eastside and Boeing climbers to rally in his name after his death in 2002 to fight leukemia and other blood cancers. “I’m honored to be taking part in this climb with such a dedicated and well-intentioned group of people. Project Trevor climbers not only honor Trevor’s struggle with their annual participation in The Big Climb, but also ensure that through his legacy, Trevor will help others diagnosed with blood cancers to fight them successfully,” Reichert explained. Rep. Reichert continued, “The fight against Leukemia first touched me personally when Paul Smith, a co-worker on the Green River Task Force, was diagnosed. He and I were close and so were our families; I coached his daughter in soccer with my girls when they were young. Paul lost his struggle with the disease. He missed out on so much, including seeing his daughter become a cop for the City of Tacoma. His daughter honors him everyday by continuing their family’s legacy of service. I’d like to hope that efforts such as The Big Climb will one day lead to a cure for Leukemia and other blood cancers, allowing families to share those special moments together.” More than 747,000 Americans have leukemia, myeloma or lymphoma, the most common form of blood cancer. Among children under 20, leukemia causes more deaths than any other cancer. In 2005, an estimated 2,610 Washingtonians were diagnosed with blood cancer and an estimated 1,220 lost their battle with the disease. When: Sunday, March 19th, 2006 Rep. Reichert climbs at 10:30 a.m. Event runs from 8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. What: A 69-flight public climb up the stairs of Seattle’s Columbia Center to raise funds for The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Where: The Columbia Center, 701 5th Avenue, Seattle Why: To cure leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease and myeloma, and to improve the quality of lives for patients and their families. About the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society®, (www.lls.org) headquartered in White Plains, NY, is the world’s largest voluntary health organization dedicated to funding blood cancer research and providing education and patient services. Since its founding in 1949, the Society has invested more than $424 million in research specifically targeting leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma. The Washington/Alaska Chapter (www.lls.org/wa) is one of 66 local chapters across the US, with additional branches in Canada. Located in Seattle since 1984, the Washington/Alaska Chapter is close to the treatment facilities where patients and families come for lifesaving therapies. Major, annual fundraising campaigns include Team In Training®, Light The Night® Walk, School & Youth ProgramsSM, the Scott Firefighter Stairclimb, the Big Climb for Leukemia and The Leukemia Cup Regatta.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), co-sponsor of the Children`s Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act of 2005, H.R. 4472, praised the bill’s passage by the House of Representatives today. The Children`s Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act includes provisions of the Gang Deterrence Act, which Reichert spoke on the House Floor in support of, as well as the Children's Safety Act of 2005 and the Secure Access to Justice and Court Protection Act of 2005. “This is an important bill because it not only protects children, but the people who work to protect them as well, such as judges, prosecutors, law enforcement officers and their family members. It’s essential that we provide protections for those who are working to protect our most vulnerable citizens, our kids. The bill also aims to reduce and prevent gang violence, a mission close to my heart,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “Gang violence in America is not a sudden problem. It has been a part of urban life for years, offering an aggressive definition and identity to those seeking a place to belong in the chaos of large metropolitan areas. However, as gangs gain momentum and invade smaller communities it is time to take a more serious, focused approach. These groups are a funnel to criminal activities, allowing a central point to encourage violence and a family that preaches drug trafficking, murder, prostitution and rape. In fact, street gangs are the primary distributor of illegal drugs in the United States. I’m glad that we’ve given law enforcement officials greater tools to fight gangs in their communities with this bill.” In response to the vicious attacks by violent sexual predators, the bill also establishes a comprehensive national registry of sex offenders and offenders against children. The website will allow the public to obtain relevant information for each sex offender with a single query. Sex offenders are required to register in each jurisdiction where they live, work or attend school; failure to comply is a felony offense. Additionally, the bill makes it easier to keep in custody sex offenders who remain a potential threat even after their prison term ends.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) today stressed the importance of the PATRIOT Act’s methamphetamine provisions to local law enforcement officials as they combat the scourge of methamphetamine labs and abuse in their communities. The House passed the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act last night. “I’ve been on the front lines of the fight against meth since I was Sheriff of King County. I’ve taken that experience and used it in Congress to provide strong tools for local officials as they wage the fight against meth in their communities. My focus on meth in Congress brought Rep. Mark Souder to the district to talk about the meth problem. Mark and I worked on some of the provisions included in this bill following that visit,” Reichert explained. Rep. Reichert continued, “Meth doesn’t just harm those who abuse it, but also their families and the communities where they live. The effects are far-reaching and include higher incidents of identity theft, increased instances of child abuse and often the release of toxic waste down household drains and of poisonous gasses into the air. Additionally, due to the highly flammable nature of the substances used to produce it, meth labs pose a clear danger to police when they discover them.” Rep. Reichert concluded, “One of the areas where meth is most widely available is in the Pacific Northwest. While Washington State has made great strides in our fight against meth, we cannot lessen our focus on or dedication to removing meth from our communities. This bill, which is the first major piece of federal legislation passed to address the meth issue, provides greater restrictions on the substances used to make meth—including putting them behind the counter—as well as increased monitoring of those substances, greater federal penalties for the drug’s traffickers and smugglers and those who make or sell it near children.” Reichert will participate in a press conference on the Cannon Terrace tomorrow from 11:15am to 11:45am with Members of the House and the DEA Administrator highlighting the meth-fighting provisions included in the Patriot Act.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) and Rep. Dan Lungren (CA-03) received the 2006 Process Control and SCADA (Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition System) Security Leadership Awards from a leading Cyber Security Organization for the results of their October 2005 joint hearing, “SCADA and the Terrorist Threat: Protecting the Nation’s Critical Control Systems.” Reichert, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, and Lungren, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Economic Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Cybersecurity of the House Homeland Security Committee, were named the award’s recipients at the recent SCADA Security Summit (Summit) held March 2-3, 2006 in Orlando. At the Summit, the owners of critical infrastructure--such as the nation’s control systems for nuclear power plants, dams, water systems, power grids and more--decided to jointly establish minimum security benchmarks and write common language for their vendors, as discussed in the October 2005 hearing, in order to make their systems less vulnerable to attacks by computer hackers. The vendors were unanimous in saying the changes will, "help us deliver safer systems," Alan Paller, Director of Research for the SANS Institute and Summit leader said. Paller continued, “The Summit happened only because the October hearings brought exactly the right people together. It is very rare for a single hearing to have this big an impact on technology in the private sector. Congratulations are definitely in order." “I’m glad my new approach to committee hearings is producing such positive results. When I came to Congress and saw how things were run, I knew some changes were necessary. Chairman King has been very good about letting Subcommittee Chairs determine their priorities and run their operations how they see fit. I’ve chosen to take some new approaches, including holding a series of hearings on operability and interoperability, focusing on these two problems until a solution is reached. I know because of my 33 years of experience as a cop that this is a top priority for first responders and my experience in Congress has shown me a new approach is required to solve this problem,” Reichert explained The Summit brought together more than 430 people from 23 countries to elaborate on the hearing’s topic, examining the vulnerabilities of the nation’s control systems. Summit organizers chose Congressman Lungren and Congressman Reichert to receive the 2006 Process Control and SCADA Security Leadership Awards for their leadership on the issue.
01.20.2008	In response to Dana Reeve’s death from lung cancer Monday night, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued the following statement: “Dana Reeve revealed her fighting spirit throughout her lifetime by repeatedly experiencing crises and finding in them opportunity. When her husband suffered a paralyzing accident in 1995, together they assumed a very public role in advocating for the disabled and in fundraising for greater research on paralysis. Together they founded the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation, which she continued on as chairperson of following his death.” Rep. Reichert continued, “The Reeves’ service through the Foundation was substantial. Awarding more than $55 million in research grants and $7.5 million in quality-of-life grants, the Foundation has touched many lives. However, the true effect of Dana and her husband’s contribution is more far-reaching. Their celebrity gave their advocacy for increased research on paralysis a much higher profile, raising the awareness of the general public, healthcare officials and legislators alike. She and her husband found the opportunity in their personal crisis and in doing so, positively affected the lives of countless others.”
01.20.2008	On Monday at 12:15 pm, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will once again participate in the National Education Association’s Read Across America celebration. Reichert will read Oh, the Places You’ll Go! by Dr. Seuss to second graders at Highlands Elementary School located at 2720 NE 7th Street in Renton, Washington, where Reichert attended grade school. “Reading has always been important to me and my family. My wife, Julie, and I have always read to our children and grandchildren and tried to instill in them our own love of reading and books. Dr. Seuss may have said it best, “The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.” I agree with that sentiment; reading is not only fun, it can be an escape, a way into other people’s worlds and minds, a way to educate yourself on any topic and it certainly broadens one’s horizons,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “I’m especially glad to be reading at Highlands Elementary, where my own start with reading was a little rough, not because of the school, but because I would’ve much rather been running around outside than sitting inside a classroom, and my teachers unfortunately had to deal with that. I hope my own story helps other kids understand the importance of reading and of being determined to continue as a reader despite a rough beginning.” Background: Read Across America is the National Education Association’s annual reading awareness program that encourages children in every community to celebrate reading on Dr. Seuss’s birthday. Last year more than 45 million children, teenagers, and adults participated in this reading celebration, which is held annually on - or near - the birthday of the late Dr. Seuss. For the past nine years, educators, parents and grandparents, stars of stage and screen, sports celebrities, governors, mayors, and other political leaders from both sides of the aisle have joined across the nation to read with children. All recognize the role that reading plays in the health and well-being of their respective communities.
01.20.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) is a co-sponsor of the Louis Braille Bicentennial--Braille Literacy Commemorative Coin Act, H.R. 2872, which passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. This bill requires the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of Louis Braille. “When he was just a 12 year old student, Louis Braille created the Braille system, which uses six raised dots to create a way for the blind to read and write. I can’t imagine a world in which every child didn’t have the ability to read and be read to. Just yesterday, I celebrated the National Education Association’s Read Across America event by reading to elementary students in King County. Imagine if all children weren’t able to enjoy books. That would leave a terrible void in the lives of our young people. It’s clear to me that Louis Braille’s contribution is of great importance and is something to be celebrated,” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “The profits from the sale of the coin will be used to promote Braille education, which is of critical important to the blind community. This is a bill I sponsored due to a specific request a constituent made of me, and it’s one I was pleased to be able to grant.” Background: As a 12 year old student at the Royal Institution for Blind Youth in Paris, Louis Braille created a system of six raised dots in various patterns combined with small dashes to represent letters of the alphabet. For three years, Louis Braille perfected his system until he published the first book written in Braille when he was 15 years old. A few years later, Louise Braille added symbols for music. Braille was not widely studied until after Louis’ death. In 1868, men from the Royal National Institute for the Blind worked to gain a larger audience for Braille and encourage its widespread adoption by the blind community. The Act directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $1 coins emblematic of the life and legacy of Louis Braille. It authorizes the Secretary to issue such coins only during 2009 and subjects all coin sales to a surcharge of $10 per coin. Additionally, all surcharges are to be promptly paid by the Secretary to the National Federation of the Blind to further its programs to promote Braille literacy.
01.18.2008	Today, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) participated in the National Education Association’s Read Across America celebration by reading Oh, the Places You’ll Go! by Dr. Seuss to second and third graders at Grass Lake Elementary School in Kent, Washington. “Reading has always been important to me and my family. My wife, Julie, and I have always read to our children and grandchildren and tried to instill in them our own love of reading and books. Dr. Seuss may have said it best, “The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.” I agree with that sentiment; reading is not only fun, it can be an escape, a way into other people’s worlds and minds, a way to educate yourself on any topic and it certainly broadens one’s horizons,” Reichert explained. Background: Read Across America is the National Education Association’s annual reading awareness program that encourages children in every community to celebrate reading on Dr. Seuss’s birthday. Last year more than 45 million children, teenagers, and adults participated in this reading celebration, which is held annually on - or near - the birthday of the late Dr. Seuss. For the past nine years, educators, parents and grandparents, stars of stage and screen, sports celebrities, governors, mayors, and other political leaders from both sides of the aisle have joined across the nation to read with children. All recognize the role that reading plays in the health and well-being of their respective communities.
01.18.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology of the House Homeland Security Committee, continues a series of hearings Wednesday with “The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from State and Local Governments”. Reichert began hearings earlier this month, hearing first from first responders and other frontline users of communication equipment. For the second hearing, Reichert has invited state and local officials to testify about their experiences, challenges and priorities. Hearing: “The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from State and Local Governments” WHO: Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, Chairman Dave Reichert WHEN: 2:00 p.m., Wednesday, March 1st, 2006 WHERE: 311 Cannon House Office Building WITNESSES The Honorable Rob Drake Mayor, City of Beaverton, Oregon; National League of Cities, Public Safety and Crime Prevention Steering Committee Member The Honorable Gino Menchini Commissioner, Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications, City of New York Chief Charles L. Werner Fire Chief, City of Charlottesville, Virginia Mr. Steve Proctor Executive Director, Utah Communications Agency Network; Former Chair, Virginia Statewide Interoperability Executive Committee BACKGROUND Whether it is a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, the ability to communicate at all levels of government is essential to responding to a catastrophe. The Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology will evaluate the state of public safety interoperable communications from the perspective of state and local governments, and assess what is being done to ensure effective communication capabilities in the future. This is the second hearing in a series focusing on the state of emergency communications.
01.18.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), member of the Subcommittee on Environment, Technology, and Standards of the Committee on Science is hosting a field hearing in Portland, Oregon today entitled, “Health Care Information Technology: What are the Opportunities for and Barriers to Interoperable Health Information Technology Systems?” “The hearing is going to look at the potential benefits of information technology to the health care industry and health care consumers, what actions must be taken in order to foster the development of better health care IT systems and finally, what is preventing more widespread adoption of these systems. We are also going to look at what is happening in the states of Oregon and Washington to help insurers, hospitals, doctors and other providers develop more comprehensive health IT systems, the role the federal government has played and what else needs to be done.” Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “We learned from A Failure of Initiative, the report by the Select Bipartisan Committee to Investigate the Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina, that the victims of Hurricane Katrina without electronic medical records were unable to receive timely and/or adequate medical care. It’s important for the health and safety of all Americans that we make better health IT systems a priority.” The purpose of the hearing is to learn about the potential benefits of information technology (IT) to consumers and deliverers of health care, the impact of IT on health care costs and quality, and about the major challenges for implementing a National Health Information Infrastructure. The hearing will focus on federal, state and private-sector efforts to promote connectivity, which would enable health care providers to access patient data from any location. In addition, the hearing will examine efforts to develop interoperable and secure standards, which are crucial to the adoption of nationwide health IT.
01.18.2008	In response to today’s announcement by Senator Schumer and Congressman Peter King, Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, that they are introducing emergency legislation to suspend the Dubai port deal, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, issued the following statement: “It’s basic due diligence to make sure that whenever a foreign entity acquires a controlling interest in a U.S. company that national security isn’t threatened. Unfortunately, the CFIUS (Committee on Foreign Investment of the United States) at times appears to shy away from investigations, so that it doesn’t discourage foreign investments. If this acquisition poses a threat, we need to know. The CFIUS must conduct a thorough and timely investigation immediately.” Rep Reichert continued, “While port security remains one of our single greatest vulnerabilities, it makes little sense to give operational control of our ports to a foreign nation without first doing proper investigations. While I am a free trader and believe in the benefit of foreign investment, our national security should never be compromised. When the CFIUS review process was set up, it was a different world. Today, we realize there are those actively seeking to harm us, to destroy our infrastructure and take lives. We must carefully consider any agreement which sacrifices American control of an important asset such as our ports.” Senator Schumer and Representative Peter King’s bill will: Require the President to place a stay on DP World’s takeover of P&O ports. Require the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States commence an immediate 45-day investigation on the takeover’s effects on national security. The bill also requires CFIUS to coordinate with other agencies, such as the Coast Guard, and to take in to consideration past security assessments of ports operated by DP World. Require the Secretaries of Homeland Security and the Treasury to prepare a full report and brief members of Congress on their findings. Upon receiving the report, Congress would have the authority to disapprove the sale within thirty days.
01.18.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology of the House Homeland Security Committee, issued the following statement after reviewing A Failure of Initiative, the report released today by the Select Bipartisan Committee to Investigate the Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina: “I read this report and immediately honed in on the statement, “We must recognize that we are woefully incapable of storing, moving and accessing information—especially in times of crisis.” I, and other law enforcement officials, have been saying this for over 30 years. One of the reasons I’ve made hearings on interoperability my number one priority as chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness is that I know it’s impossible to make the right decisions in the field without complete and timely information. I know from my own experience as a cop that the “information gaps” the report identifies cost lives.” Reichert continued, “I agree with the Select Committee’s findings that, ultimately, the failures surrounding Katrina were of leadership. The lack of good leadership is at the root of every single problem identified and detailed in the committee’s report. It’s why I’ve taken a leadership role as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness in addressing operability and interoperability. My committee is going to address this problem in a series of hearings and we will solve the general problem with emergency communications in this country.” The Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology has jurisdiction over first responder funding, including how these funds are administered; preparedness for and collective response to terrorism and natural disaster; national exercises and training for terrorist attacks and disaster response; coordination between the federal government and state, local, and private sector in terrorism and disaster preparedness; and research and development of new technologies for combating terrorism and preparing for natural disaster.
01.18.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology of the House Homeland Security Committee, began a series of hearings today on “The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from the Field”. The hearings are particularly timely as the Select Bipartisan Committee to Investigate the Preparation for and Response to Hurricane Katrina today issued their report, A Failure of Initiative, which offers a scathing critique of the state of operability and interoperability and highlights the primary reason why this failure is unacceptable: information must get to the right people at the right place at the right time, so they are able to make the right decisions. “My single greatest priority as a legislator and as a former cop with 33 years of experience is making sure we address the state of operability and interoperability among the communication systems that our nation’s law enforcement, fire service and emergency medical services personnel rely on. My subcommittee is going to hold a series of hearings looking at this problem from all levels. We’re going to begin today by having the cops, firefighters and emergency service providers themselves, the ones that actually use the equipment, testify. After that, I’m bringing in state and local government officials, then the federal officials who administer the interoperability grant programs. Lastly, we will bring in people to testify on the current state of technology that could solve the problems we are looking at,” Reichert said. Reichert continued, “It’s unacceptable that the problems I faced three decades ago as a rookie cop are the same ones first responders face today. Fixing this problem should be a national priority. It’s my top priority, and I intend to elevate it nationally and to solve the general problem with emergency communications in this country.” Opening Statement of Chairman Dave Reichert Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology Committee of Homeland Security Hearing on “The State of Interoperable Communications: Perspectives from the Field” Good morning. Let me first welcome our distinguished panel and thank you all for being here today to share your thoughts on an issue of great personal and professional importance to me – the problem of achieving and maintaining interoperable emergency communications. I’d like to be blunt here. It is intolerable to me that our Nation’s law enforcement, fire service, and emergency medical services personnel still confront many of the same emergency communication problems that I did as a rookie cop more than 34 years ago. It is intolerable to me that -- even with the rapid pace of technological innovation and the vast amounts of money dedicated to improving emergency communications -- our Nation’s first responders still experience difficulty communicating with one another, on demand, in real time, when needed. Until the events of September 11, 2001, many people just simply assumed that first responders from different disciplines and jurisdictions could communicate with one another. Unfortunately, that was the not case then. And, as demonstrated by the inadequate response to Hurricane Katrina, it is not the case even now. The inability of police, fire, emergency medical services, public works, utilities, and health care workers to communicate with one another effectively may have lead to the loss of many lives in New Orleans and the Gulf States. The status quo is unacceptable. Our local police, fire, and emergency medical service professions are our Nation’s first line of prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery. And effective communication is absolutely essential to their mounting a well-coordinated response to any emergency – whether manmade or natural. Indeed, first responders and Federal, State, and local officials cannot establish meaningful command and control in the absence of a functioning communications system. Without the ability to receive timely reports from the field, the Incident Commander may have difficulty establishing situational awareness. Without the ability to issue instructions to first responders in the field, the Operations Chief cannot direct resources and personnel to areas of most need. And without the ability to call for help, citizens cannot reliably seek medical and other emergency assistance. In other words, effective communications is essential for the right people to make the right decisions at the right time. That message is worth repeating… to mount an effective emergency response requires timely and accurate information, so that the right people may make the right decisions at the right time. As I previously said, I have a firsthand understanding of, experience with, and appreciation for this problem. Suffice it to say, I have faced the perils of life and death decision-making during my career. As Sheriff of King County in Seattle, Washington, I tried to provide the safest possible environment for those that served in my office. But, sadly, inadequate emergency communications sometimes stood in my way. For example, the regional radio communication system, which served all 39 governments in my county, suffered terrible interference. The proliferation of cell phone towers overpowered and disrupted my deputies’ ability to receive their signal, thus jeopardizing their safety. As Sheriff, I took immediate remedial action to redress that particular situation. But now, as a Member of Congress and Chairman of this Subcommittee, I have a forum through which I intend to solve the general problem with emergency communications. While the recently enacted Deficit Reduction Act included necessary initial steps of freeing up much needed spectrum and establishing a new $1 billion interoperable grant program, interoperable communications is about much more than just spectrum and money. It is about the need for strong leadership, effective coordination, and adequate planning. Today is the first in a series of four scheduled hearings to highlight the issues and perspectives of various experts, such as yourselves. Your perspective is especially important to us: you are the ones who serve on the front lines, where “the proverbial rubber meets the road.” In the three successive hearings, this Subcommittee will hear the perspectives of State and local government officials, Federal officials who administer interoperability grant programs and other activities, and experts in the field of emergency communications technology. Again, I want to again thank the witnesses for their testimony today. The Chair now recognizes the Ranking Minority Member of the Subcommittee, the Gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Pascrell, for any statement he may have. The Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology has jurisdiction over first responder funding, including how these funds are administered; preparedness for and collective response to terrorism and natural disaster; national exercises and training for terrorist attacks and disaster response; coordination between the federal government and state, local, and private sector in terrorism and disaster preparedness; and research and development of new technologies for combating terrorism and preparing for natural disaster.
01.18.2008	Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) joined Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property of the House Judiciary Committee, and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), in introducing the Law Enforcement and Phone Privacy Protection Act of 2006, H.R. 4709, on the House floor today. “This bill makes it a felony to fraudulently obtain a cell phone user’s private information. Right now, there are web sites out there that will sell private information associated with a particular phone number. While it’s illegal to disclose this information, the owners of these web sites use deceptive methods to obtain the information, like “pretexting,” which is pretending to be the account holder to get access to the information and then selling it,” Rep. Reichert explained. Reichert continued, “In this day and age, where identity fraud and theft is on the rise and we are more likely than not to be victims of it ourselves, we have to take every logical, practical step to protect personal information. This bill is common sense; your call records are your business, and certainly your account number is. This bill protects that information.” The bill has bipartisan support, with Judiciary Committee members from both parties co-sponsoring the legislation. The bill is similar to legislation introduced in the Senate by Senators Schumer, Nelson (FL), and Specter. Background: Current law contains criminal penalties for obtaining another person’s financial records under false pretexts, but similar penalties do not exist for telephone records specifically. Recent media reports showed that consumer telephone records are widely available for sale without consumer approval. This invasion of privacy is made possible by numerous Web sites that charge fees to obtain private information, such as call records and the name and billing number connected to a particular phone number.
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement in remembrance of Coretta Scott King: “Coretta Scott King’s profound effect on the civil rights movement reverberates in this country even today. As the first lady of the civil rights movement, she dedicated her life to the causes of equality, justice and freedom. Today we honor her lifetime of achievements and offer our condolences to her family. “Throughout my 33 years in law enforcement I’ve interacted with people from all walks of life. I know what it’s like to take risks and make sacrifices for what you know is right. Coretta Scott King did this to the greatest extent imaginable. She lost her husband to the cause of equality, gave of her time and energy, and endured extreme and unjust punishment so that her voice would be heard. “She championed such issues as racial and economic equality, religious liberty and women’s and children’s rights. She fought for equality here in America and human rights around the world. Today we remember her for the many sacrifices she made in the name of justice. “It is my hope that all Americans take a moment to recognize the impact of her life, that we may never forget her legacy of equality and justice.”
01.18.2008	With Super Bowl XL a week away, Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman U.S. Rep. Phil English (R-Pa.) challenged Seattle Seahawks’ fan U.S. Rep. David Reichert (R-WA) to a friendly wager, as to who will be the next Super Bowl champion. Rep. Reichert eagerly accepted Rep. English’s challenge, confident the Seahawks are victory bound. “For the first time, in a decade the Pittsburgh Steelers have found their way back to the Super Bowl and are destined for victory,” said English, a long-time Steelers fan. “I credit Dave for taking my challenge and predict not only a Steelers’ victory, but a Steeler blow-out. My staff and I look forward to a tasty caffeine boost Monday morning.” Rep. Reichert countered, “The Seattle Seahawks aren’t going to waste the opportunity to make their first trip to the Super Bowl into their first national championship. The Seahawks have exceeded everyone outside Washington State’s expectations, but we natives know this team has what it takes. I look forward to watching Phil eat crow come Monday morning, and have cleared a space in my refrigerator for my Rolling Rock.” Rep. Reichert also said that he would donate the beer to a local pub in the 8th district that shows itself to be the home of the most enthusiastic Seattle Seahawks fans. In the spirit of good sportsmanship, the lawmakers agreed to swap products made in their home states. Should the Pittsburgh Steelers take home the title, Reichert will provide English with a case of the Seattle based Starbucks’ Coffee. In the event the Seattle Seahawks take the championship, English will provide Reichert with a case of Latrobe, Pennsylvania’s Rolling Rock beer. Reichert represents Washington’s 8th Congressional District which includes most of the eastern edge of metro Seattle. English serves western Pennsylvania's 3rd District, which includes Erie County and parts of Armstrong, Butler, Crawford, Mercer, Venango and Warren counties. The winner will receive their reward Monday, February 6, 2006.
01.18.2008	Together, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman, and Rep. Norm Dicks (D-WA), member of the Homeland Security Committee, introduced H.R. 4607, To ensure passenger safety at airports, on December 16, 2005, as the 109th Congress concluded its first session. In response to the mid-December move by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to allow scissors, screwdrivers, pliers and wrenches to be carried onto passenger planes, Dicks and Reichert introduced legislation that would require TSA to revert to the list of previously prohibited items, as well as to not further modify the list of prohibited items until common sense requirements have been met. TSA said the list of prohibited items was reduced so that they could focus more attention on explosives. “It does not make sense that we are allowing known potential weapons, not unlike those the 9-11 hijackers used to overcome the crews of four airplanes, to be taken aboard passenger aircraft. Increased and better screening for explosives is necessary - and Congress should fund it and TSA should implement it as quickly as possible - however that screening doesn’t reduce the risk posed by a trained terrorist with an unconventional weapon,” Reichert explained. Rep. Dicks concurred with Rep. Reichert, noting that the TSA shift “clearly sends the wrong message to airline passengers as well as to criminals who could use this opportunity to harm crew members, disrupt air travel or, even worse, cause the type of large scale destruction that occurred on Sept. 11th.” He said that “while there are other high priority issues such as cargo screening that should be accomplished by TSA, we cannot simply ignore the potential for violent actions in the cabin and cockpit.” Reichert continued, “It’s not just passenger safety that we should be concerned with. The men and women who make up a plane’s crew put their lives in jeopardy each time they fly. It’s our job as much as anyone’s to make sure we make it as safe as possible up there for them. Scissors, screwdrivers and the like pose an unacceptable risk to flight crews as well passengers.” Background: On December 22, 2005, TSA began implementing a new directive that allows scissors up to 4 inches in length and screw drivers, pliers and wrenches up to 7 inches in length, onboard commercial aircraft. TSA will focus on additional screenings of randomly selected passengers and their bags using a variety of methods. TSA contends the proposed changes will allow them to focus resources on more serious threats, such as explosives. Summary of Reichert Legislation: Requires TSA not to increase random body searches or modify the list of items prohibited from being carried aboard passenger aircraft until: Each high risk airport is equipped with and using walkthrough explosive detection equipment at security checkpoints; TSA conducts a security risk assessment of common items that may be carried aboard a passenger aircraft for their potential use in a terrorist incident; TSA develops standards for risk assessment to determine the inclusion or removal of items on the list of prohibited items based on the level of risk determined; TSA develops guidelines based on the risk or threat of a terrorist incident, to determine when a body search is warranted; TSA must submit a report to Congress regarding the assessment, standards and guidelines. Note, 9/11 Commission: The 9/11 Commission Report Card gave a “C’ grade to “Improving airline screening checkpoints to detect explosives.” While more advanced screening technology is being developed, Congress needs to provide the funding for, and TSA needs to move as expeditiously as possible with, the appropriate installation of explosives detection trace portals at more of the nation’s commercial airports.
01.18.2008	Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced today the appointment of Patrick Lee as his Policy Director for the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology. “As a veteran police officer dedicated to protecting America, Pat Lee brings perspective and experience to this position,” said Reichert. “I am pleased that he has agreed to join me in Washington and contribute his extensive law enforcement expertise to our Committee. I believe that his experience will help make our nation safer.” “I commend Chairman Reichert for his decision to appoint a highly qualified member of the first responder community to assist the Committee with these important issues,” said Full Committee Chairman Peter T. King (R-NY). “I am looking forward to working with Pat.” Lee, a former police officer with 30 years experience, served as Undersheriff for Reichert in King County, Wash., from 2000-2002. He also served as Division Chief for Criminal Investigation and Division Chief for Technical Services in the King County Sheriff’s Office from 2002-2005. Before joining the King County Sheriff’s Office, Lee, a Police Captain with the City of Everett, WA., served as the Commander of the State of Washington Police Academy. Prior to his service at the Academy, Lee was a Police Officer and Detective for the City of Everett, Wash., Police Department. The Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology oversees the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) terrorism preparedness and response functions, including the allocation of federal first responders funding and the coordination of homeland security exercises and training. The Subcommittee also oversees DHS science and technology entities and initiatives.
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 2862, the Science State Justice Appropriations Conference Report for FY06. The conference report passed in a bipartisan majority, by a vote of 397-19. “I am pleased to see this conference agreement pass the House today. We worked to have critical programs in Washington state provided for in this bill, and I’m happy to see them receive much needed funding. This particular appropriations bill is near to my heart. Gang intervention, domestic violence and many other issues addressed in this legislation are issues that I am passionate about, and I am gratified to see them spotlighted in this bill. At the same time, I am disappointed to see COPS[1] and other local law enforcement grant programs, which work to combat meth, domestic violence and more, absorb significant cuts. I will continue to fight for COPS monies and next year, as I did this year, I will offer an amendment if the program receives anything less than full funding. We must protect our communities from all angles.” Reichert obtained appropriations for the following in the Science, State Justice Bill: (WA-08) $300,000 for School Resource Officers, King County This project would provide for routine community policing responsibilities and additional School Resource Officers (SRO) for the King County School Resource Officer Program. SROs are a vital resource to schools. These specially trained deputies help develop safety and security polices, provide law enforcement in the school, and even teach classes on crime prevention, substance abuse and gang resistance. $250,000 for a Gang Intervention Program in the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe Despite best efforts, the Tribe has seen a surge in gang and other illegal activity among its youth. The Gang Intervention Program provides healthy alternatives to gang activity, with activities such as casework, drug and alcohol counseling, education and workshops. Funding would support on-going and expanded programming, including hiring a female counselor to specialize in reaching out to female youth. $2 million for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative Federal funding provided to the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative has enabled the program to have an immediate impact on Washington state's fight against methamphetamine. Last year the state of Washington spent about $56 million addressing meth offenders, treating addicts, and dealing with the after effects of methamphetamine use and production. This year’s funding will train and equip additional law enforcement personnel to proactively tackle meth abuse and increase regional response. It will also allow for expanded implementation of meth strategy to additional counties and tribal jurisdictions. $750,000 for the DNA Stranger Rape Pilot Program, Washington Association of Sheriffs and Police Chiefs (WASPC) This project would develop a DNA pilot program that will rapidly change law enforcement’s utilization of no suspect casework. The program will direct all WA State law enforcement agencies to submit biological evidence for DNA testing within days of a stranger rape occurring. WASPC will work with local law enforcement agencies and crime labs to create an all felon database. Washington state is presently estimated to have 500 stranger rape cases per year. $1.3 million for the Tacoma Family Justice Center, Pierce County This center will serve as a resource for domestic violence victims and their children. Functioning as a one-stop service center for victims, with representatives from community agencies, law enforcement officers, prosecutors and others available to assist victims in addressing the domestic violence they face.
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement in response to House passage of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act Conference Report for FY06. The bill passed by a strong bipartisan majority of 399-17. “Living in the Northwest is a privilege, because we enjoy such beautiful surroundings,” said Reichert. “We worked hard to have this bill include projects critical to Washington state, and I’m pleased to see the conference agreement pass today. The bill contains funding for projects that are both critical to environmental health and important to the economy of the Puget Sound region. It is a success for the eighth district to receive this funding, to help preserve the pristine surroundings we enjoy.” Reichert obtained the following in the Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Report: $600,000 for White River diversion dam reconstruction This project commissions a replacement dam for the passage of the endangered Puget Sound Chinook on the White River. The river necessitates a diversion dam because the Mud Mountain flood damn is too steep to for the Chinook to pass safely through. Presently, the diversion dam is almost 100 years old and needs to be updated to modern standards. For the past five years the Army Corps of Engineers has been researching and designing a new diversion dam to meet fish passage needs, and this allocation will provide for completion of design. $903,000 for White River fish trap and diversion facility operations This funding provides for operations and management of the facilities that provide safe river passage for the White River Chinook. Without the ongoing operation of the White River fish trap and diversion facility, fish passage for salmon and other anadramous species will become impossible, due to the barrier created by the Mud Mountain Dam. $2.5M for Ramgen engine development One of the main goals of the Department of Energy’s Office of Fossil Energy is to develop technologies that reduce air pollution and strengthen domestic energy security. Ramgen technologies utilize fifty years of well-established ramjet flight performance data and experience and have enormous implications for energy efficiency in the areas of power and distributed generation. This funding provides for Ramgen to design, build, test and commercialize stationary engines. that $1,875,000 for the Duwamish and Green River Basin This appropriation provides for habitat restoration from the headwaters in the Cascades to Puget Sound for fish that use the passage facility at Howard Hanson Dam. $1,500,000 for Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters This money will fund habitat restoration throughout the Puget Sound, including large-scale restoration work on mainstream rivers, estuaries and marine waters. $750,000 for Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration This project will identify the most cost-effective habitat restoration projects in the Nearshore, estuary and marine areas of Puget Sound. This project is critical to the environmental health and economy of the Puget Sound region, as the Nearshore provides habitat for several endangered salmon species. $235,000 for the Lake Washington watershed and Ship Canal This project commissions a study that will result in a prioritized list of habitat restoration needs in the Lake Washington watershed and the Ship Canal. The report will complete feasibility work for 45 critical, early action projects in Lake Washington Basin and continue fish passage studies at the Hiram Chittenden Locks. Lake Washington and the Ship Canal are home to several ESA listed salmon species.
01.18.2008	House Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (WA-08)) delivered the following opening statement at today’s joint hearing on Responding to Catastrophic Events: the Role of the Military and National Guard in Disaster Response: "Good morning. Let me first welcome our distinguished witnesses from the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security and Defense. We greatly appreciate your appearance before us today for this important joint hearing. "Before we start, I’d like to commend Chairman Jim Saxton and Ranking Member Ellen Tauscher of HASC’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, and Capabilities for their leadership on homeland defense issues. "And I especially appreciate their willingness to hold this joint hearing with the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology—which I chair with the able assistance of Ranking Member Bill Pascrell. "This joint hearing is a timely one. The deployment of thousands of federal troops to New Orleans in response to Hurricane Katrina has spurred fresh debate about whether the Department of Defense, not the Department of Homeland Security, should be the lead federal agency in responding to disasters of great magnitude. "In a nationally televised address from New Orleans on Sept. 15, 2005, President Bush contended that ‘it is now clear that a challenge on this scale requires greater federal authority and a broader role for the armed forces—the institution of our government most capable of massive logistical operations on a moment’s notice.’ "To an American public understandably upset by the slow response to Hurricane Katrina and frightened by a possible avian flu outbreak, the President’s suggestion merits discussion. There are, however, constitutional, legal, and practical constraints on the military’s ability to assume the primary role in responding to catastrophic emergencies. "First, under our Nation’s constitutional framework, state and local governments take the lead role in responding to disasters and emergencies, while the federal government and the military take a supporting role. As the former Sheriff of King County, Wash., I fear that an enhanced role for the military in responding to disasters and emergencies may undermine federalism and deter already financially strapped state and local governments from using their scarce resources for something that the federal government and the military will handle. "Second, as the lead agency for responding to catastrophic events, the Pentagon may be required to perform certain law enforcement functions. Such a result may upset the delicate balance of civilian-military relations. It is a well established principle of our democratic form of government that the Pentagon should not conduct domestic law enforcement activities, such as investigating, arresting, and incarcerating individuals. Nevertheless, when local and state governments are completely overwhelmed, federal troops may be needed to maintain law and order. Such situations may test the limits of the Posse Comitatus Act. "Finally, as a practical matter, an enhanced role for the military and the National Guard in responding to domestic catastrophes could undermine our Nation’s defense capabilities. The military’s principal responsibility is to protect the United States from direct attack, not to respond to disasters and emergencies. If the military assumes primary responsibility for both national defense and emergency response, then its dual missions may drain valuable resources and personnel. This result may inadvertently harm military readiness to defend the United States. "I want to again thank the witnesses for their testimony today, and our colleagues on Armed Services for holding this joint hearing with us. I look forward to discussing these and other issues with all of you this morning.”
01.18.2008	House Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Dave Reichert (R-WA) led a Congressional delegation to Houston and Beaumont, TX Sunday to take a first-hand look at the damages sustained from Hurricane Rita and lessons learned for future catastrophic evacuations. Attendees on the trip participated in briefings with federal, state, and local officials to learn more about what can be done to coordinate mass evacuations and disaster response in the event of potential terrorist attacks or natural disasters. “Whether it is a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, we need to further define the role of local, state, and federal government in responding to national catastrophes,” said Reichert. “We need to focus on joint training and planning among the various levels of government as we determine ways to improve communications and expedite evacuations.” Members joined Harris County Judge Robert Eckles at the Houston TranStar facility to discuss the lessons learned from the recent evacuation with Houston medical and emergency response personnel. Afterwards, Members participated in a helicopter tour to that gave them a first-hand look at some of the extensive damage in Southeast Texas. Following the tour, Members of the Committee joined Jefferson County Judge Carl Griffith and other local officials for a briefing at Lamar University. The school incurred over $50 million in hurricane damages. “This is about our families and ensuring that in the future, we know they are taken care of. We need to be confident that if separated from them in a disaster, they have the necessary support systems to get them through it,” said Reichert. The Committee on Homeland Security intends to hold Subcommittee hearings during the coming weeks focusing on evacuation processes and lessons learned from Hurricane Rita.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was today appointed to the Homeland Security Subcommittee for Investigations by Chairman Peter King (NY-03). The newly created Subcommittee will be responsible for conducting comprehensive investigations into issues and situations directly linked to homeland security programs within the federal government. “Dave Reichert is key to this Committee,” said King. “A former Sheriff who dedicated 20 years of his life to solving the Green River case, Dave will bring a special breadth and insight to our investigations.” Reichert is the sole representative from the northwest on the investigative panel. Additionally, he was selected to chair the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, the largest Homeland Security Subcommittee, last month. “I am honored to be part of this important Subcommittee,” said Reichert. “We are the American people’s representative and I believe it is important that we truly investigate and address the important issues facing our security and response. As a former detective, I am eager to jump back in and start evaluating the cases before us.”
01.18.2008	The following is Chairman Dave Reichert’s opening statement from today’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology hearing, Incident Command, Control, and Communications during Catastrophic Events: Good afternoon. I want to take a moment to welcome everyone. This is my first hearing as Chairman, and I am honored to lead this Subcommittee. This is also my first term in Congress, so not everyone here knows me well, but I think you will come to find I invest a lot in listening. Our most important asset as a Subcommittee is the witnesses that appear before us. Hearing your different arguments empowers us to make educated decisions for the American people, and I thank you for being here today. We are here to discuss a topic that affects every one of us. I believe you will find it is not partisan, but personal. Today we will examine disaster response on the ground, and how to ensure that our Nation is not ever again overwhelmed by a large-scale emergency or disaster. This issue is central to the mission of this Subcommittee, and it is also at the heart of who I am. As former Sheriff of King County, Washington, and a first responder of over 33 years, I can personally attest that there cannot be effective and efficient response to catastrophic events without planning, training and communication. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita were so catastrophic, so unexpectedly damaging, that they burned right through the response capabilities in place for our first responders. This country’s first responders are phenomenal, frequently putting their lives on the line for others. Yet as these hurricanes struck, they faced unprecedented operational, logistical, and financial problems. As we look to the future, it is critical that we put an effective incident command structure in place, so that even if communications are knocked out, emergency response continues. There is no denying mistakes were made in the wake of these two storms. After any emergency situation, there are always lessons to be learned. It is clear we need to put a system in place to handle the massive influx of support personnel and resources to a disaster site, while at the same time managing timely and accurate information to incident commanders and the public. There are many concerns to be addresses, and I do not doubt we all realize that. I also believe, however, that we all have the same common interest—wanting to ensure the American people have an emergency system that responds quickly and effectively in times of need. The bottom line is we want to protect our citizens, especially in times of great loss. I know that working together, we will make progress. We will examine how to ensure the short-term and long-term health and safety of our first responders, how to effectively treat victims in mass casualty events, how to ensure that response and recovery funds are spent wisely and many more important issues. As my predecessor as Chairman of this Subcommittee, Peter King left big shoes to fill. I will work hard and do my best to continue the integrity and dedication he instilled. I know I speak for every Member here when I say we are honored to have him as Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. I am also lucky to have Bill Pascrell at my side as the Subcommitee’s distinguished Ranking Member and I am eager to work together. While we take the time to examine disaster response today, I think it is important we not forget the most important thing we have seen following the storms- the strength and bravery of the families and loved ones in the Gulf Coast. They have shown amazing heart, and our prayers are with them. Thank you.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert lauded House passage this week of the Violence Against Women Act, as part of H.R. 3402, the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act. The bill received bipartisan support, passing the House by a vote of 415-4. The following is Reichert’s floor statement on domestic violence: Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman and also thank the gentleman from Texas for introducing this resolution. As has been said already this afternoon, Mr. Speaker, this is an important issue; and I come before this House to talk about this issue because it is a passion that I share with all Americans across this country to eliminate, eventually, domestic violence. As a young person growing up and experiencing domestic violence in my own household, and then also as the sheriff of King County and a law enforcement officer for 33 years, I have a great deal of experience in witnessing the effects and impacts that domestic violence has on our own personal lives and on our communities and our Nation as a whole. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this resolution and recognize Domestic Violence Awareness Month and to be an original cosponsor of the Violence against Women Act of 2005, which will be considered in the full House tomorrow. The Violence Against Women Act has provided Federal resources and protections for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. It is crucial that Congress reauthorize this program. I want to take a moment just to share maybe a story or two, to draw a picture for those who may be listening, about what domestic violence really does. It takes lives, it takes families, it takes communities. I have seen it. Go to a police call, go to a domestic violence call as a police officer and walk into a home and tell me you will not be impacted and affected by children who are hiding and cowering in a corner, and witness two adults screaming and yelling, and maybe one has a knife, maybe one has a gun. Children witnessing violence in their own home, against people who supposedly love them. It is sad. It is not only sad; it is tragic. Domestic violence can lead to all sorts of other issues that affect and impact our children: alcoholism; drug abuse; emotional, physical abuse; sexual abuse in the family; and it drives children from their homes and on to the streets. I have seen that too. I have seen them driven on to the streets and into the arms of people who want to do them harm. The month of October is designated as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. It is good that we have a month where we can think back and look at where we came from. In 1972 when I started out as a police officer and you got a call to a family fight, that is what they called it then, a family fight, you would drive up and meet the people standing in the yard or screaming in their house and the kids in the corner cowering because they are afraid that their mom or dad might be hurt, their mom or dad might go to jail, or they might be hurt. The police officer back then only would separate the parties and wish them well and they would be on their way; no counseling, nobody went to jail, nobody held accountable, nobody held responsible in 1972 in Seattle. Today, we now have many, many laws in place that hold people accountable who commit these crimes. It is about time. We need to do this. We need to remember. We need to remember the crimes of domestic violence because it will rip our Nation apart. It rips families apart, it will rip our Nation apart, and I look forward to continuing my work in stomping out domestic violence.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) was appointed, today, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology, to the House Homeland Security Committee. Homeland Security Chairman Peter King cited Reichert’s expertise in emergency preparedness, drawn from his career as a first responder, as the leading factor in his selecting Reichert as subcommittee chair. “Dave Reichert brings real-life experience and dedication to the Committee which is unmatched. I am delighted that he has agreed to serve as Chairman of the Emergency Preparedness Subcommittee. No one could be more qualified,” said King. Prior to being sworn in to Congress in January, 2005, Reichert served as a police officer for 33 years. Most recently he finished an 8 year term as Sheriff of King County, Washington. Under his leadership, the Sheriff’s office developed integrated information sharing systems, known as LINX and RAIN, and developed effective budgeting techniques without compromising community services. He gained national recognition for his response to the 1998 WTO riots in Seattle, and has participated in TOP OFF emergency preparedness exercises nationwide. “I am honored Chairman King has chosen me for this position,” Reichert said. “I look forward to continuing the excellent work this subcommittee has done. Making sure the American people are safe is our top priority. Effectively preparing our first responders and emergency response systems takes care of all of our families, and I will work to see they continue to have the necessary resources.” The Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology has jurisdiction over first responder funding, including how these funds are administered; preparedness for and collective response to terrorism; national exercises and training for terrorist attacks; coordination between the federal government and state, local, and private sector in terrorism preparedness; and research and development of new technologies for combating terrorism.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement in response to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff’s announcement that the United States Coast Guard will be conducting involuntary recall of reservists, under Title 14 of the U.S. Code[1], to support hurricane efforts: “Part of what makes our country so strong is our unflinching support of one another. In this time of crisis, the Coast Guard is a key agency, lending their strength and expertise to the Gulf Coast in the face of dramatic destruction.” “I have faith the men and women of the Coast Guard will immediately rise to the challenge and see the people hit by Katrina through until the storm has truly calmed.” Reichert is Vice-Chairman of the Coast Guard Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and a member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology of the Homeland Security Committee. Secretary Chertoff has authorized the recall to active duty of 550 Coast Guard Reservists to support response and recovery activities. The U.S. Coast Guard has approximately 8,000 reservists.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today voted for the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act. The trade pact passed the house by a vote of 217-215. Reichert issued the following statement on passage: “Washington is the most trade dependent state in the country. One in three jobs in Washington depends on trade-- we need to take CAFTA and see it as an opportunity to stimulate our economy and be actively involved in a world market. “Whether we are ready to acknowledge it or not, we are in a global economy. If the US shrinks from international trade and establishes itself as an isolationist, then we create an opening for China or competing nations to step in and dominate trade. We need to look ahead and see that CAFTA is a step forward, building towards the possibility of the entire western hemisphere one day being open to free trade. I had the privilege of meeting with the leaders of the CAFTA countries. They want this agreement, as well. Our partnership with Central America will be strong and positive. “Opening markets and encouraging free and fair trade with our neighbors will help keep and create jobs here at home while ensuring that American goods and services reach as many corners of the globe as possible. In establishing an open exchange with Central America, we build our foreign relations. This trade agreement builds America and establishes a foothold to freedom for Central America’s fledging democracies searching to grow-- we truly took a step towards the future today.”
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today introduced two bills aimed at curbing the use of methamphetamine in the United States. The first piece of legislation will focus on funding to fight meth abuse and the second on researching the nationwide methamphetamine epidemic. “The effects of meth use are devastating,” said Reichert. “As a cop, I saw children living in disgusting and dangerous conditions of meth houses because their caregiver was focused only on their addiction. It is imperative we do something to stop meth abuse. The long term effect is harmful to the health and wellness of not only the user, but everyone around them.” The primary bill will provide a stable federal funding source to assist localities in their fight against meth. Funding in these grants may be used for the following: - Arrest and conduct of clandestine lab seizures and clean up - Hiring and specialized training for law enforcement - Awareness, prevention and community based education - Intervention - Child and family services - Community policing - Training for law enforcement, health, family services, environmental and fire departments. Prosecution The second bill commissions an 18 month study by the Department of Justice to assess the connection between meth crimes and identity theft crimes and examine parallel relationships. Additionally, the study will evaluate criminal sentencing enhancement for persons committing both of the aforementioned crimes. As King County Sheriff, Reichert was a leader of the Washington State Meth Coalition. He organized the first statewide meth summit, which spurred creation of meth action teams for each county. Reichert is member of the House Meth Caucus, a bipartisan group of 111 representatives working to counter meth abuse. More than 12 million people ages 12 and older say they have used methamphetamine at least once. Washington state was ranked one of the top ten states for meth abuse in 2004 and the Washington State Crime Lab reported an insurgence of meth related evidence the same year. Meth addicted parents are responsible for a 62 percent increase in the foster care population over the last decade, however, fewer than 30 percent of those same parents regained custody of their children in Washington state.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on the London terror attacks: “London faces a terrible tragedy today. Our hearts and prayers go out to the British people in this difficult time. "These terrorists are men without humanity, who do not hesitate to leave innocent civilians in their destruction’s wake. Yet already, we are seeing steady resolve from Tony Blair and the people of London. The strength that comes from freedom is bolder and more sure than any attack. On September 11th, the United Kingdom stood by us amid our rubble and tears. Today, we pledge the same support to them, and to stand firm in our war against terrorism around the world.”
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today announced he will be an original co-sponsor to the 2005 Violence Against Women Act. The Act will be an important reauthorization of the original legislation sponsored in 2000, which initiated important gains in ending sexual and domestic violence. “This legislation is some of the most important legislation I will ever be involved with,” said Reichert. “From my own personal life experience and my experience as a law enforcement officer, domestic violence is a problem that must be addressed head on.” “In my 33 years as a cop, I walked into many volatile domestic violence situations. Domestic violence is the most dangerous call an officer can be sent into. One can never be completely prepared for the explosive and unpredictable nature of the highly personal situations.” “I saw children sitting on couches crying and holding each other before police officers resolved the situation and brought quiet back to their homes. I saw battered wives struggle through the nightmare that domestic violence brings.” “The negative impact sears children’s lives and in many cases the cycle perpetuates because of the violent environment they were raised in. Because the only thing they have ever known is a family with brutal disagreements, they bring that experience to their own lives as parents and spouses and pass on what is a very ugly legacy. We must do all we can to stop these patterns and break these trends.” In the years since its enactment, Violence Against Women has saved lives and helped millions of women and children find safe homes and self sufficiency. This year’s reauthorization will: - Continue assistance to criminal justice and legal systems to help victims - Develop new programs to respond more comprehensively to community needs - Provide direct service for all victims while providing additional, specific assistance for underserved communities such as minorities, disabled and rural communities - Provide housing solutions for victims - Counseling services - Outreach to at risk families through educational programs - Strengthening health care response to violence against women
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. David Reichert, Vice-Chairman of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, yesterday chaired a Congressional hearing on the Coast Guard’s various law enforcement missions, such as illegal drug and migrant interdiction, and fisheries enforcement. The oversight hearing examined the Coast Guard’s current capabilities in carrying out these missions in addition to its new homeland security duties.Reichert’s opening statement is as follows: “The Subcommittee is meeting this morning to conduct an oversight hearing on the Coast Guard’s maritime law enforcement missions,�? Reichert said. “Current law provides the Coast Guard with broad authorities to ‘enforce or assist in the enforcement of all applicable laws on, under and over the high seas and waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.’ Under the Coast Guard’s maritime law enforcement mission, the Service regularly enforces fisheries laws in U.S. waters and prevents illegal drugs and illegal immigrants from entering the United States by sea. “In fiscal year 2004, the Coast Guard intercepted more than 176 tons of cocaine and nearly 13 tons of marijuana at sea. Already this fiscal year, Coast Guard missions have resulted in the seizure of more than 96 tons of cocaine and marijuana and the destruction of a substantial amount of illegal drugs that were jettisoned by drug smugglers at sea. These missions are instrumental in stemming the tide of illegal drugs that enter into the United States. “In recent years, the Coast Guard has developed several specialized units to intercept drug smugglers at sea. The Coast Guard has formed a Helicopter Interdiction Tactical Squadron (HITRON) that patrols areas in the Caribbean Sea and the Eastern Pacific Ocean in conjunction with Coast Guard cutters. The HITRON squadron has been responsible for stopping 8.5 tons, or $6 billion, of drugs from entering the United States. Under the Deepwater program, the Coast Guard’s fleet of HH-65 and HH-60 helicopters will be fitted with the equipment necessary to carry out these drug interdiction missions at sea. I am looking forward to hearing how these improved assets will enhance the Service’s abilities to intercept drugs nationwide. “In addition to the Service’s drug interdiction mission, the Coast Guard regularly carries out alien migrant interdiction missions and fisheries law enforcement missions aboard its many cutters. These missions enforce national immigration laws and protect the nation’s valuable natural resources in the U.S. Economic Exclusive Zone. “However, despite the importance of the Coast Guard’s law enforcement missions, I am concerned by the recent trend in resource-hours that are being devoted to the Service’s drug interdiction, alien migrant interdiction and fisheries law enforcement missions. A GAO report last year revealed that resource hours devoted to illegal drug interdiction, living marine resources and foreign fishing enforcement had been reduced by 44 percent, 26 percent and 16 percent respectfully. As a result, I look forward to hearing testimony this morning regarding the Coast Guard’s plans to maintain a true mission balance between its many and varied missions in this time of increasing maritime homeland security needs. “I also look forward to hearing the Coast Guard’s plans under the Deepwater program to acquire vessels and aircraft with the equipment necessary to enhance the Service’s ability to carry out these law enforcement missions and other traditional and homeland security missions,�? Reichert said.Coat Guard Outlines Mission Successes The assets used by the Coast Guard to enforce many of its missions – its cutters, aircraft, and boats – are reaching the end of their service lives. The Integrated Deepwater System is the agency’s program to modernize these aging assets. The Subcommittee will conduct a hearing on implementation of Deepwater on June 21st. Rear Admiral R. Dennis Sirois, Assistant Commandant for Operations, testified about the Coast Guard’s missions and the Deepwater plan. “The majority of the Coast Guard’s operational assets will reach the end of their anticipated service lives by 2010, resulting in rising operating and maintenance costs, reduced mission effectiveness, unnecessary risks, and excessive wear and tear on our people,�? Rear Admiral Sirois said. The resulting ‘readiness gap’ negatively impacts both the quantity and quality of Coast Guard ‘presence’ – critical to our ability to accomplish the Service’s law enforcement missions. “The revised Deepwater plan recently submitted to Congress includes additional capabilities that will better equip the Deepwater system to meet the challenges of the post-9/11 environment. These additional capabilities will also improve performance in all Coast Guard mission areas. “The Coast Guard attributes its success in fiscal year 2004 to the intelligence analysis and coordination of the interagency members that participate in Joint Interagency Task Force (JIATF) South. JIATF South coordinates the counter drug detection and monitoring resources of our international (U.S., British, Dutch, and French) and domestic agency partners (Department of Defense, Department of Justice, and Customs and Border Patrol). “Operation Panama Express, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice, also generates a tremendous amount of actionable intelligence on trafficking organizations and smuggling routes. Leveraging this intelligence enables a higher rate of success for interdiction assets from the Navy, Coast Guard, other domestic agencies, and international partners. “To further improve the effectiveness of our law enforcement programs, and to maximize coordination with our international partners, the Coast Guard has negotiated bilateral and multilateral counter drug and alien migration interdiction agreements with 26 Caribbean nations. “The successes in the Coast Guard law enforcement missions have not come without their share of challenges in performing our critically important non-homeland security missions while meeting increased homeland security requirements and supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom. We are working our assets – and our crews – harder than ever,�? Rear Admiral Sirois said.
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today offered an amendment to bring COPS program funding back up to FY05 enacted levels. His opening floor debate statement is as follows: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on an issue that is more than something I believe in, it is who I am. The COPS program is essential to our local law enforcement, and I am here today in support of it. "I spent 33 years of my life as a cop. I worked my way up the ladder. I served as a patrol officer, a jail guard, a lieutenant, a detective, and finally, as Sheriff of King County, Washington. "I became a cop because deep in my heart I believed that I could make a difference in my community; that I could protect it. The COPS program enforces that ideal. "Since September 11, we have found our local cops in an unusual dilemma. They are expected to carry out new homeland security duties as first responders, while at the same time maintaining their original responsibilities. I am a member of the Homeland Security Committee, and I believe our country’s security is a priority, but I do not think we should be carrying out this function as an unfunded mandates at the expense of local law enforcement. We are seeing federal law enforcement receive an unprecedented amount of funding, while at the same time the scope and the responsibility of first responders on the front lines is increasing without parallel funding. Even in this amendment, restoring cops funding to its original level of last year still allows for significant increases to federal law enforcement agencies. "In my experience, local and federal law enforcement are most effective when they are working together. Teamwork is the key. You would not play a football game by sending some players out onto the field with pads and helmets and the others with no equipment at all. In a team effort, all players should be valued equally, especially in law enforcement, where our fights have to be balanced. Our attacks have to be balanced, local and federal. In the war on drugs, in the war on terror, in the national fight against gangs, local police officers and federal agents are all working together towards the same goal of making our country safer. "According to Attorney General John Ashcroft, “Since law enforcement agencies began partnering with citizens through community policing, we’ve seen significant drops in crime rates.” Now that crime has dropped, we are going to cut the funding that has kept our communities safe? That is absurd. "Local cops are the ones on the front lines—they are the men and women keeping our families safe daily, protecting our children in school, monitoring gang violence-- the first responders who are there when you call 911. "You DO NOT pay a lesser price for your family than you do for Homeland Security. We are in a new era of both family and national security. But our first responders play a dual role, as the first ones on the scenes in the case of a terrorist attack and the first ones on the scene in everyday emergencies as well. One is not worth less than the other; cops must be well prepared and equipped for any emergency that they are sent into. "Mr. Speaker, this program is vital. Across the country, it procures equipment, combats domestic violence, puts cops in schools, fights meth gangs and much, much more. I urge my colleagues to support the COPS program and vote for my amendment today. "I reserve the balance of my time."
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement in recognition of Flag Day: “Today we pay tribute to the American flag – a symbol of our country that says all men are created equal, a symbol that represents life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. “We as Americans feel a sense of pride when we look upon the stars and stripes of our country’s flag. It is a constant reminder that we have the gift of freedom and that this freedom was bought at a price. Many have sacrificed their lives, their time, their livelihood to ensure the preservation of freedom and equality that America stands for. “It is my hope that on this Flag Day, all Americans take a moment to recognize the gift we have in living here, in the United States. Let us not take for granted the opportunities, liberties, and justice we are afforded in this strong, free nation.”
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today applauded Christina Popchoi of Sammamish High School for her outstanding achievement in the 2005 Annual Congressional Art Competition. Popchoi’s oil pastel, chosen from 12 pieces submitted from area high school students, will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “I’d like to congratulate Christina on her hard work and success,” Reichert said of Popchoi’s achievement. “She is known by her teachers to be diligent in her academics as well as her artwork. Clearly she is a gifted, creative student and we’re happy to be able to honor that.” Reichert further commended all students who entered the local competition. “We have amazing talent in this area and it is important to recognize all of the students who entered this year’s contest. I’d like to thank each student for putting forth such effort. And I’d like to encourage these students to continue developing their creative skills. These are talented young people; you never know where their gifts might take them.” “Christina is a very capable all-around student,” said Claudia Browers, Chair of Sammamish High School Fine Arts. “She was one of ten students statewide to win the juried 2005 High School Student Art Contest sponsored by the Office of Public Instruction. Along with taking Advanced Placement studio art this year, she has taken AP Statistics and other advanced Courses. We are all very proud of Christina’s work.” Popchoi is one of thousands of high school students who have been recognized for their artistic accomplishments since the creation of the Congressional Art Competition in 1982. Each year participating Congressional districts in the U.S. hold local art competitions. Winners of these local contests are invited to the U.S. Capitol for a ribbon cutting ceremony where the winning pieces of art are displayed. Popchoi’s art will be hung at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday, June 14th along with winning pieces from other participating Congressional districts throughout the country. Popchoi, with the other local winners, is offered a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design in the amount of $3,000 per year. Other participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition (WA-08) include: Allison Brewer - Sammamish High School Amelia Cannon - Tahoma High School Anna Cherepmina - Sammamish High School Derek Gress – Lindbergh High School Josh Krebs – Lindbergh High School Diana Peiter – Bellevue High School Tom Reicken - Tahoma High School Michan Reiter - Bellevue High School Mariko Sninoda-Mettler – Issaquah High School Miyuji Sugiyama - Bellevue High School Carrie Williams - Tahoma High School
01.18.2008	U.S Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed to see the FY 06 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations bill coming to the House floor next week contains major cuts to the COPS program. "While I am encouraged to see the House funding COPS above the Administration’s suggested level, it is not enough. This program is too important too see any reduction in funding. "I will work to educate the leaders of the Appropriations process as to the importance of the COPS program, and will actively and aggressively look for ways to remedy the situation as the bill readies for debate next week. "Protecting our neighborhoods must be one of our top priorities. The COPS office grant program is critical to maintaining law and order across the nation. It must be funded appropriately.”
01.18.2008	U.S Rep. Dave Reichert today made the following statement upon passage of H.R. 2528, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, which passed by a vote of 425-1: “It is critical that we send a strong message to our men and women in uniform that we support them. Today’s legislation will help to improve their quality of life,” said Reichert. “This Memorial Day I will spend the holiday overseas with our troops in Iraq. It is only fitting that while these soldiers are working so hard to defend our country we do all we can for them here in Congress.” The bill includes an overall increase in veterans’ benefits, and a budget increase of $1.64 billion for veterans’ medical services. The mental health research budget is doubled, and for the first time $2.2 billion is specifically earmarked for specialty mental health care. Reichert was also one of 19 Republicans to cross the aisle today and vote in favor of an additional $169 million for veterans’ medical services. In spite of Reichert's efforts, the amendment failed by one vote, 213-214. The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs legislation capped a week of bills the House passed to improve conditions for America’s troops and veterans. Reichert’s own troop readiness amendment, which will address employment issues of Guardsmen, Reserves and Veterans, passed the House, yesterday, as part of the Americans in Uniform Act of 2005. On Wednesday, the House passed the Defense Authorization bill which will fund improved equipment, raise the pay for armed forces and increase the death gratuity. Earlier in the week, the House passed a bill allowing troops receiving tax-free combat zone pay to use those dollars in planning their future through IRA contributions. Another bill addressing health insurance concerns by limiting premium increases on reservists who return to their civilian jobs after active duty, also passed. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert will celebrate National Trails Day this Saturday, June 4, with National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) volunteers at Mount Rainier National Park . Reichert and park Superintendent Dave Ubueruaga will join volunteers, who will be clearing overgrown trails and repairing washed out sections on the Twin Firs Trail near the park's Nisqually entrance. “Our state resources, such as Mt. Rainier , deserve our attention,” said Reichert. “It is important we preserve Washington 's landmarks so our children and grandchildren can enjoy the parks the same way we have.” Visitors to Mount Rainier spend some $35 million each in the small communities surrounding the park. At Mount Rainier , park officials estimate the backlog of deferred maintenance costs for historic buildings, trails, and bridges exceeds $100 million. Faced with budget shortfalls last summer, Rainier 's rangers were forced to curtail visitor center hours and cancel educational programs. “We're putting our shovels where are our mouths are,” said Heather Weiner, NPCA's Northwest Regional Director. “For years we've urged Congress to address Rainier 's growing backlog of washed out bridges, overgrown trails, and crumbling historic buildings. On National Trails Day, we're crossing a small, but important, item off the park's ‘to do' list.” NPCA recently released a report, Faded Glory: Top 10 Reasons to Reinvest in America's National Park Heritage , calling attention to ten critical effects from insufficient funding of the parks ranging from dilapidated buildings to rampant poaching, threatened artifacts, shoddy roads and trails, and cutbacks in educational programs for school groups and park visitors. Earlier this year Reichert joined a bipartisan group of members of Congress, including Rep. Brian Baird (WA) and Rep. Mark Souder (IN), in cosponsoring the National Park Centennial Act, which provides national parks with a new source of funding for maintenance and preservation needs and offers individuals a way to make a personal difference by donating a portion of tax refunds through a check-off box on federal tax returns. The companion bill was introduced in the Senate in late April. Faded Glory is available online at www.npca.org/report/investinparks. # # #
01.18.2008	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement in response to House passage of H.R. 2419, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 . The bill passed by a strong bipartisan majority of 416-13. “This bill cuts down on wasteful spending and dedicates funding to the most critical plans first,” said Reichert. “We've managed to get important projects in the eighth district special attention, such as the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration, which is critical to the environmental health and economy of the Puget Sound region and the Ramgen engine development, which has enormous implications for energy efficiency in the areas of power and distributed generation” The Energy and Water Appropriations Act provides for: (WA-08) · $4,400,000 for the construction of a replacement dam for the passage of the endangered Puget Sound Chinook on the White River over its flood control dam, Mud Mountain Dam. · $2,500,000 for Ramgen engine development to design, build, test and commercialize stationary engines that utilize fifty years of well-established ramjet flight performance data and experience. · $500,000 for Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration · 470,000 for a Lake Washington Ship Canal Ecosystem Restoration Study that will result in a prioritized list of habitat restoration needs in the Lake Washington watershed and Ship Canal. The Lake Washington and Ship Canal are home to several ESA listed salmon species. This project will restore habitat for salmon and improve water quality, which will also impact water quality in the Puget Sound which is home to the ESA listed Orca. (Nationally) Provides full funding for Bureau projects throughout the western United States , highlighting western water infrastructures. Funding for the Bureau of Reclamation is $977 million, $7 million above last year's level and $60 million above the President's budget request. Funds the NNSA (National Nuclear Security Administration), which includes the nuclear weapons program, defense nuclear nonproliferation, naval reactors and the office of the administrator at $8.8 billion, an increase of $24 million over last year. Provides significant increases for the Sustainable Stockpile initiative, including development of the Reliable Replacement Warhead. Additional resources provided to accelerate the consolidation of sensitive nuclear materials into secure sites. Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation activities funded at $1.5 billion, $8 million above Fiscal Year 2005. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 1815, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006. The bill passed by a vote of 390-39. “This year's Defense Authorization provides support for our troops in the continued war on terror. We've managed to be fiscally responsible with the taxpayers' dollars, while at the same time arming our military with the tools they need to protect America from terrorists,” said Reichert. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006: Supports continued efforts in the War on Terror with $49.1 billion in supplemental funding for operation costs, personnel expenses, and procurement of new equipment Authorizes funding for force protection in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom such as up-armored Humvees, tactical wheeled vehicle recapitalization and modernization programs, night visions devices, and improvised explosive device (IED) jammers Honors the sacrifices made by servicemembers: Increases the death gratuity to $100,000 Extends to one year (from six months) the amount of time dependents of deceased servicemembers can stay in housing or receive housing allowances Expands travel authorization for families of hospitalized servicemembers Provides a 3.1% pay raise for members of the armed services, active duty, reserve and active duty re-enlistments Recommends that Reservists receive a full housing allowance when mobilized to serve on active duty for over 30 days. Increases the maximum amount of hardship pay from $300 to $750 per month Focuses on the need to rein in the escalating costs of major procurement programs and calls for acquisition reform to ensure that critical warfighting needs are met Requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to evaluate and monitor changes in baseline cost estimates Holds the DOD accountable, and sets strict standards regarding accounting and cost management Encourages shipbuilding procurement reforms and caps DD(X) destroyer funding at $1.7 billion for each ship Requires the Comptroller General to submit to Congress an annual review of the Future Combat Systems (FCS) program, including an analysis of established performance, cost, and schedule goals Requires the establishment of a contingency contracting corps to meet the needs of commanders on the battlefield The corps will facilitate the rapid acquisition of critically needed goods and services ultimately improving the process by which the needs of the warfighters are met. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S Rep. Dave Reichert today offered an amendment, in conjunction with House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Rep Mark Kirk (R-Ill) to maintain America's integrated military. The amendment passed the House by voice vote as part of a legislative package, The Americans in Uniform Act of 2005, attached to the Defense Authorization bill. “ I served in the air force reserves. When I went active duty, I took a pay cut. I know what it's like to be a reservist and have financial and employment issues. It is not easy to juggle those weighty concerns while preparing to serve your country- or as soon as you get back,” said Reichert. “When I was Sheriff of King County, we developed a standard to support our employees who were also Reserve soldiers. Their jobs were guaranteed, so no matter what the length of their tour was, the soldiers knew that when they came back, they had employment, that we supported them 100 percent. Men and women serving our country should be praised, not punished for being guardians of our flag.” Reichert's amendment requires that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report to Congress on employment matters for members of the National Guard and Reserve, so that Congress may responsibly address employer/employee issues. In particular, the bill calls for GAO to report on difficulties faced in gaining re-employment once they return from duty . “Dave's contribution to the troop readiness package was invaluable,” said Blunt. “He recognizes the critical importance of taking care of our military and understands the heart of the issue being a reservist himself. The GAO study will help us understand the employment difficulties faced by returning soldiers so that we can work with them to remedy problems they face.” The Reichert amendment provides for: Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of the Act GAO shall submit to Congress a report on difficulties faced by members of the National Guard and Reserve with respect to employment as a result of being ordered to perform full-time National Guard duty or being ordered to active duty service. In preparing the report, GAO shall include the following information: Types of Employers. An estimate of the number of employees of members of the National Guard and Reserve who are private sector employers and those who are public sector employees Size of Employers. An estimate of the number of employers of members of the National Guard and Reserve who employ fewer than 50 full-time employees. Self-Employed. An estimate of the number of members of the National Guard and Reserve who are self-employed. Nature of Business. A description of the nature of the business of employers of members of the National Guard and Reserve. Reemployment Difficulties. A description of difficulties faced by members of the National Guard and Reserve in gaining reemployment after having performed full-time National Guard duty or active duty service, including difficulties faced by members who are disabled and who are Veterans of the Vietnam era . The total Americans in Uniform Act will: Improve retirement benefits by allowing military retirees under 60, who would otherwise be eligible for retired pay, to receive their Space-Available Travel benefits immediately upon retirement. Protect the jobs of Guard and Reservists by requiring the Defense Department to consider their employment in the defense industry as one factor when awarding federal government contracts. Blunt and Kirk will sponsor. Investigate personnel matters pertaining to Guard and Reservists by requiring the GAO to report to Congress on the types of jobs service members hold and their difficulties in gaining reemployment after active duty. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today applauded passage of House Resolution 266, supporting the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day. The resolution, co-sponsored by Reichert, supports the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day to honor federal, state and local police officers killed in the line of duty, and calls on the American public to observe the day with respect. “This is a very personal resolution for me, and I am proud to have voted for it. I attended the 24th annual National Police Officers Memorial service yesterday in honor of the brave men and women lost in the line of duty. "I served as a cop for 33 years. I gained my life training among fellow cadets in the police academy and my fellow officers on the streets. I realize what a great sacrifice those who wear the badge make when they put their lives on the line to protect others. "Two of my best friends’ names are on the memorial here in Washington, D.C. that honors fallen officers, Sam Hicks and Mike Rayburn. Sam Hicks was my partner, and a man who taught me more than I can express and served to protect everyone. I am honored today to pay tribute to his, and every fallen officer’s memory. "Peace Officers Memorial Day is a significant holiday to the nation and the police community. Law enforcement officers across the country ensure our neighborhoods’ well-being and make them a better place to live.” More than 870,000 law enforcement officers serve nationwide today, more than any other time in history. • In 2004, 153 officers across the nation were killed in the line of duty. • Every year a law enforcement officer in the United States is killed somewhere in the United States every 53 hours. • There are 56,000 assaults against law officers each year, resulting in 17,000 injuries. • On September 11, 2001, 72 police officers lost their lives to terrorist attacks. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today gave the following floor speech on the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005: "As [Congressman Gingrey] said, I have 33 years of law enforcement experience and in fact up until January 3rd of this year I was a cop. And one of the things I know about cops is that they need all kinds of tools, and we do need police officers on the street, but one of the most important things that cops want is to know their community supports them- local, state, and federal. "Mr. Speaker, we are here to talk about a very serious problem, today. Across the country, we are seeing a resurgence of organized crime sprawling into our towns and our neighborhoods. Gangs are becoming a magnet for our youth as they long to belong to something. And this is hardly the team we want our children to join. "Gang violence in America is not a sudden problem. It has been a part of urban life for years offering an aggressive definition and identity to those seeking a place to belong in the chaos of large metropolitan areas. However, as gangs gain momentum and invade smaller communities it is time to take a more serious, focused approach. My colleague, Mr. Forbes, addresses this critical problem, today, in the Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005. "Prior to being elected to Congress, I served for 33 years as a cop. I worked with prostitutes, drug dealers and gang-bangers for that length of time. My colleagues in the Sheriff’s office and I actively fought to curb the growth and influence of gangs. I know that not only in my home state of Washington, but across the country, law enforcement officers recognize gangs for the serious threat that they are to our community. "I believe in taking problems head on, not running away. You evaluate the facts, you make a decision and then you see that solution through. We have recognized the consequence of letting this situation go forward for far too long. It is dangerous to all Americans. Whether a gang currently has a presence in our home towns or not, we need to take a careful look at where this issue is headed and stop the influence of gangs before it spirals out of control and out of our hands. "The United States Department of Justice cites that there are currently over 25,000 active gangs in 3,000 jurisdictions. 25,000 gangs! That equals out to 750,000 gang members. If growth continues we could be looking at 1 million gang members across the country in only a few years. These groups are a funnel to criminal activities, allowing a central point to encourage violence and a family that preaches drug trafficking, murder, prostitution and rape. In fact, street gangs are the primary distributor of illegal drugs in the United States. "Mr. Speaker, I am a man of faith who believes deeply in family and responsibility. Our obligation is to American families and communities. We need to look out for their futures, we need to direct our youth towards a path of success and progress as productive members of society looking towards a better country. We can not afford to lose these talented youths to a life on the street with drugs and a gang hierarchy who’s form of discipline is violence. "Mr. Speaker, I applaud the gentleman from Virginia’s efforts to deter gangs across the country and I urge my colleagues to support the rule and vote for final passage later today." # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today participated in a Memorial Day rally on the Capitol steps honoring our veterans and active military. Joining Speaker Hastert and other Congressional leaders, Reichert paid tribute to those who currently serve, and those who have served in the past, to make America stronger, safer and free for all. "Most of us will spend the Memorial Day holiday with our family and friends at cook-outs and get-togethers. As we enjoy these days, it is important we stop and appreciate the brave soldiers, past and present, who sacrifice for our freedom,” said Reichert. “This year, I will spend Memorial Day abroad, on a trip to Iraq to visit our troops and see first hand their dedication and hard work. I am blessed to have the chance to meet with so many young men and women fighting for our flag. "We have tried to do our part, here in Congress, as well. We have upheld our country's commitment to veterans and our active military. Today, as we pass the Defense appropriations bill, we dedicate important funding to veteran health care, troop protection- body armor, vehicles and more. "Freedom is not, in fact, free. I am honored by the dedication of American soldiers, domestic and abroad, and I thank them this Memorial Day for their heart and sacrifice.” # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today released the following statement on the House stem cell research vote: “Today we took a vote on a very sensitive and deeply personal issue, grappling with convictions on human life and medical research. I was elected by the people of my district to protect and defend the weak, the innocent, the poor and the helpless. I thank the people of the eighth district for the honor of representing them. "In this debate, we have heard heated argument on both sides of the issue. Today's vote was, to say the least, difficult, different than the other votes. It was a vote that caused each member to reflect on family, on the brevity of life and our fragile existence. "What remains undisputed in this delicate issue, though, is that Congress has a great responsibility to evaluate the subject in a responsible, informed manner. At this time, we have not done so. There is no hearing to record, no open Committee process where we called witnesses, no formal examination of the fiscal implications- a full dialogue has not occurred. "I take every vote seriously. I investigate and examine all sides of the issue. I met with groups from all perspectives on stem cell research, in my district and here in Washington, and listened to the intense and emotional reasoning. We need to know more. "While my votes may, and have in the past, fallen out of line with my colleagues, my primary concern is the role of the federal government. I cannot cast a vote to dedicate federal funding to a moral issue that has not fully been investigated. "I have tremendous respect for the passion and principle of both sides of this argument. There is great hope in stem cell exploration, which is why I voted today for the Stem Cell Therapeutic Research Act of 2005, but federal funding should not be directed to embryonic stem cell research until we have concrete research and assessment in the proper Congressional processes. Until that time, I believe that we must resolve the uncertainty of science by erring on the side of life.” # # # H.R. 2520, Stem Cell Therapeutic Research Act of 2005, House vote 431-1, Reichert vote aye H.R. 810, Stem Research Enhancement Act, House vote 238-194, Reichert vote no
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert, with House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) and Congressman Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), will explain a plan to amend the Department of Defense Authorization Bill with provisions of an Americans in Uniform Act (HR 2484), legislation designed to improve U.S. military readiness and address the growing demands of the War on Terror. The Americans in Uniform Act would help retain service members, improve retirement benefits, protect the jobs of Guardsmen and Reservists, and investigate personnel matters related to the Guard and Reserves. Reichert will offer an amendment requiring the GAO report to Congress on employment matters for members of the National Guard and Reserve, so that Congress may responsibly address employer/employee issues. In particular, the bill calls for GAO to report on difficulties faced in gaining re-employment once they return from duty. The DoD Authorization Bill is slated for debate on the House floor on Wednesday. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today praised the overwhelming support of the emergency wartime supplemental spending request, which passed the House by a vote of 388-43. “We are at war, a war like no other in this nation’s history, a complicated worldwide battle against terrorists. These terrorists are bent on harming our country and harming our citizens,” said Reichert. “We must ensure that our brave men and women fighting abroad have the training and equipment they need to keep America strong and free. We all support our troops and pray they return home soon. Today we fulfilled our obligation to American troops and American families.” # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today applauded introduction of the National Park Centennial Act of 2005. The legislation will provide national parks with a new source of funding for maintenance and preservation needs and offer the public a way to make a personal difference by authorizing a check-off on individual tax returns to benefit the national parks. “Investing in our national parks makes sense – Mount Rainier generates more than $35 million each year for the small communities in surrounding areas,” said Reichert. “It is important that we preserve our landmark national resources for our children and grandchildren to enjoy.” This week, on the 133rd anniversary of the creation of Yellowstone National Park, the House will begin a series of hearings about the adequacy of the budgets of agencies within the Department of Interior, including the Park Service. “We’ve got many reasons to invest in our national parks,” said National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) President Tom Kiernan, “But we should need only one: the national parks are our heritage and need our help.” “Last summer we read headlines about shortened visitor center hours, closed trails, and canceled ranger talks at Olympic and Mount Rainier,” said Heather Weiner, northwest regional director for NPCA. “Congressman Reichert has got it right. It’s time to stop taking for granted Mount Rainier, Olympic and all of the northwest's crown jewels. It's time to pass the Centennial Act and put park funding above politics.” First introduced in the House of Representatives in October 2004, the Act seeks to increase funding through 2016—the 100th birthday of the Park Service. The legislation authorizes new funding for the parks from the general treasury and from a voluntary check-off on federal tax returns. The House version of the bill has X co-sponsors. A companion bill has not yet been introduced in the U.S. Senate. Parallel to House introduction, NPCA released a report today, Faded Glory: Top 10 Reasons toReinvest in America’s National Park Heritage, calling attention to 10 critical affects of insufficient funding ranging from dilapidated buildings to rampant poaching, threatened artifacts, shoddy roads and trails, and cutbacks in educational programs for school groups and park visitors. The report is available online at www.npca.org/report/investinparks.asp. Similar top 10 lists were released today by park supporters across the country, including the community of Forks, Washington, which is profiled in the NCPA report. National park visitors are encouraged to post their own list of 10 reasons the national parks should be funded at www.npca.org/scrapbook # # # Copies of the report and photos are available upon request.NPCA?Protecting Parks for Future Generations® Since 1919, the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association has been the leading voice of the American people in protecting and enhancing our National Park System. NPCA, its members, and partners work together to protect the park system and preserve our nation's natural, historical, and cultural heritage for generations to come. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today praised the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for recognizing the critical role of technology in protecting our nation. DHS recently selected Seattle as one of four cities across the country to participate in a new science and technology initiative. The urban area Regional Technology Integration (RTI) initiative will focus on speeding integration of new technologies and organizational concepts to state, regional and community homeland security efforts. Local governments and the Homeland Security Science and Technology team will work together to identify preparedness needs and apply advanced technology to those areas. “Innovative technology is one of our country’s greatest strengths,” said Reichert “By anticipating our first responders’ needs, we in turn ensure faster, better response in time of crisis. Technological progress and security go hand in hand. It is important we incorporate the latest technology into our security efforts at all levels- local, state and federal.” The Seattle area is one of the nation’s leading high tech centers, housing Microsoft’s headquarters in the eighth district. Four regions demonstrating a willingness and capacity to adopt advanced and innovative concepts for emergency preparedness and public safety have been selected to participate in the program; Seattle, Cincinnati, Anaheim and Memphis. These initial locations will provide the science and technology community with a realistic environment to test maturing hardware and concepts along with providing information as to how best choose, deploy, and manage these technologies to strengthen security efforts. Seattle area law enforcement and emergency operations managers have been leaders in pursuing new and innovative ways to prevent and respond to homeland security concerns. Washington was previously selected as one of five states nationwide to test the LINX system, a program giving unprecedented online access to local, state and federal databases. The King County Sheriff’s Office, along with the Police Chiefs Association, developed the innovative Regional Automated Information Network (RAIN), in November, 2002, now a model for information sharing. Reichert serves on both the House Homeland Security and Science Committees for the 109th Congress. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today praised the President’s appointment of John Negroponte as the United States’ first Director of National Intelligence: “Information sharing is at the heart of the United State’s security. John Negroponte has the experience and qualifications necessary to execute important intelligence decisions for our country. It is critical that security intelligence gets where it needs to go as quickly as possible. The Director of Intelligence will facilitate this fast-tracking of information, in turn making us more secure. In crisis environments, a united intelligence effort is invaluable. From the CIA down to our first responders, clear channels enable us to be on the offense. It is those on the frontlines—our police and firefighters- who will be the hometown response in the event of an attack. These forces put their lives on the line for our freedom and safety. The creation of the Director of National Intelligence will ensure the various agencies work together and the best information gets to our local forces in the most efficient fashion. As a former law enforcement officer, I believe that streamlined communications are vital to our security efforts. I applaud the President’s choice and as a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, look forward to working with Mr. Negroponte in the future.” # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep Dave Reichert announced today that King County Fire District 44 will receive $170,369 from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. “I am thrilled to see the King County Fire District 44 receive this funding,” said Reichert. “Through these grants we help ensure that Washington’s first responders have the equipment and training they need to respond to all types of situations.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. For the 2004 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $750 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. “Our fire district has traditionally been given more responsibilities with no additional funding. This grant helps us to prepare for different situations and new challenges,” said Fire Chief Greg Smith. “It great to have representatives like Dave Reichert working for us back in D.C. and we appreciate it. Dave has a big voice for small places.” “As a former Sheriff and first responder myself, I can speak to the importance of the right equipment and training to facilitate the best response. Firefighters are an important part of our communities. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps ensure our firefighters have the resources needed to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives,” said Reichert. # # #
01.18.2008	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on House passage of the Real ID Act. This measure would implement much-needed driver's license reforms, close asylum loopholes, enhance border security, and strengthen deportation laws. "We lost thousands of loved ones on September 11 to a terrorist attack. It is important we do everything we can now to prevent that from ever happening again. We must be vigilant in all that we do, including seemingly simple acts such as obtaining a driver’s license. A driver’s license is a bridge to many things. For a terrorist, it is a walkway to weapons, planes and other forms of identification. That is unacceptable. As a former law enforcement officer of 33 years, I realize in a very personal sense just how dangerous weapons are in the wrong hands. Therefore we have taken another step to close these loopholes, a step recommended in the 9-11 Commission Report1. The House acted strongly to see no terrorist will be handed an official license again, in turn protecting American families—the most important priority this Congress has.” The Real ID Act will boost U.S. border security by: •?Requiring ID applicants to provide proof they are in the country legally; •?Requiring identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status, preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the U.S. from having valid identification documents; •?Strengthening judges' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful. This provision codifies the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility; •?Requiring the completion of the San Diego 14 mile border fence on the US-Mexican border; and •?Providing that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable. # # # 1 The 9-11 Commission Report, Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, p. 384.
01.16.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert was today named to the newly formed Homeland Security Committee, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Science Committee. “I am deeply gratified to be named by Speaker Hastert and the Steering Committee to these key committees,” Reichert said as he wrapped up a very successful first week in Congress. “We had hoped to be successful in achieving one or more of our top choices, but to receive all three assignments is very exciting.” “The Sheriff was very clear with us how important Homeland Security, transportation and technology sector issues are to his district,” House Speaker Dennis Hastert said. “His more than 30 years in law enforcement will bring hands-on, practical knowledge of keeping our nation safe to the new Homeland Security Committee.” “I placed all three of these committees at the top of my list because they oversee issues that are vital to the 8th District,” said Reichert. “The Puget Sound region faces every type of Homeland Security issue – from ports to borders to cyber security. Additionally, no issue impacts the day to day lives of my constituents more than transportation – from both an economic and quality of life perspective. And serving on the Science Committee will allow me to work with the technology sector that relies so much upon research and development. We really hit a trifecta.” “These assignments are a boost for the region and also recognition by the House leadership that I am here to get things done. Now that we have been successful in achieving these placements, I look forward to rolling up my sleeves and getting to work for the people of the 8th District.” ###
11.30.2007	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today offered an important amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act for FY06. The amendment, which was accepted by unanimous consent, will move to include first responders in all steps of terrorism preparedness exercises. The bill is expected to pass Committee later tonight and will be called to a vote on the House floor in the next month. The following is Reichert’s remarks to the Committee on the amendment: Mr. Chairman, we are here today to aide the Department of Homeland Security in fulfilling their mission. This is an incredibly important bill and I’d like to thank Mr. King from New York for co-sponsoring this amendment. I served as a law enforcement officer for 33 years, most recently as Sheriff to King County. And my tenure as a Sheriff allows me to speak to the importance of this particular amendment I offer today. On a regular basis the Department of Homeland Security holds terrorist attack “drills,” known as TOPOFF. These drills involve multiple cities running simulations of simultaneous terrorist attacks- dirty bombs, biological and chemical attacks. The people who coordinate the would be response efforts are our first responders- firefighters, police officers and paramedics. I know that because two years ago, one of the TOPOFF drill cities was Seattle, and as King County Sheriff I participated in a “dirty bomb attack.” First responders know what we need to draw and learn from in these simulations. These are drills, but they are drills because we hope to never see the day a terrorist attack is levied on our home cities. God help us, in the case that we have to rise to that occasion, it will be these men and women on the front lines, assisting any of us who need it. In today’s world, with the new and sadly, horribly challenging threats we face, we must be pro-active, not reactive. So I offer an amendment that makes First Responders part of a process to which they are already intricate. Currently, first responders are only involved in the back end of critical terrorism preparedness drills. They offer insight and ideas at the conclusion of the drills as to what could have gone better, equipment needs and training changes that need to be made. Yet in spite of their expertise, they are not involved on the front end, when the exercises are planned. My amendment changes that and makes consultation with first responders on federal, state and local levels during national terrorism preparedness exercises mandatory. It ensures that we are looking at this problem on the ground level, where things will happen and where the viewpoint counts. Mr. Chairman, I have seen many things as a law enforcement officer that I never anticipated I would see. I hope and pray that I NEVER see a day where terrorists attack my home, or any of your home cities. Reality is that we must be prepared for worst case scenarios, and I don’t believe in doing anything less than 100 percent. Involving first responders in terrorist drills from the beginning to end is simply the only way these preparedness exercises will be effective. I yield back the balance of my time.
08.06.2007	Contact: Abigail Shilling (202) 225-7761 Mercer Island, WA, Aug 6, 2007 - Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) will be joined by King County Executive Ron Sims and other elected officials, local leaders and constituents of the conservation community, on Wednesday, August 8, to discuss and tour Wilderness and Wild and Scenic River conservation opportunities near the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area. In 1976, the Alpine Lakes Wilderness was designated by Congress and has become the most visited Wilderness in the country. Building on Washington’s great tradition of working collectively with local stakeholders to ensure the future of our state’s one-of-a-kind wild forests and rivers, Congressman Reichert is engaged in an effort to expand Wilderness areas near Alpine Lakes and protect important wildlife habitat, existing recreational opportunities and local economies that rely on both. WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert, Eighth Congressional District of Washington Ron Sims (Representative), King County Executive Bonnie Rice, Associate Director of Conservation, NW Regional Office, American Rivers Don Parks, Citizen Volunteer, Alpine Lakes Protection Society Jonathan Guzzo, Washington Trails Association Mark Boyar, Citizen Volunteer, MidFork Coalition WHAT: To discuss and tour wilderness and scenic river opportunities near the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area. WHEN: Wednesday, August 8 at 10:00 A.M. Pacific WHERE: Middle Fork Campground Shelter Directions to Middle Fork Campground from Seattle Approximate travel time: 75 minutes From I-90 eastbound, take Exit 34 (468th Ave. SE, or Edgwick Road). Turn left at the exit stop sign, and drive north just under a half mile past "Ken's Truck Town" and a number of stores and gas stations to "SE Middle Fork Road". Turn right onto the Middle Fork Road, and set odometer here. At just under one mile, the road splits. Take the right fork (signed "Lake Dorothy Road"-- but it's really the Middle Fork Road.) Continue straight on this road. At about Mile 2, pavement ends. The road follows the Middle Fork Snoqualmie River--use caution on corners. At about 5.5 miles, the Middle Fork is crossed on a large concrete bridge. At just over 8 miles, several large boulders mark where a short trail leads down to the Middle Fork and a view of Russian Butte across the valley. Continue straight ahead. At about 11.7 miles, the parking lot for the Middle Fork Snoqualmie trail can be seen on the right, and at 12 miles, the Middle Fork campground is on the left. The picnic shelter and viewpoint are reached by driving straight into the campground (don't turn left into the camping areas), to where the road ends in less than one quarter mile. The shelter is uphill on the right. Local media are invited to attend and join the tour. More details will follow. Press availabilities throughout the morning. Media or logistical inquiries should be directed to Abigail Shilling by e-mail or phone: abigail.shilling@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-0903. - # # # -
07.25.2007	Contact: Abigail Shilling (202) 225-7761 Washington, D.C., Jul 25, 2007 - Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) will join other House Republicans to unveil legislation to combat crime TODAY, Wednesday, July 25, 2007 at 3:00 P.M. EST. The bills will reduce violent crime, protect America’s children from sexual predators, prevent terrorism and protect our national security, combat violent gangs, eradicate methamphetamine traffickers and guard against criminal aliens and smuggling networks. Reichert’s legislation, The Violent Crime Prevention and Enforcement Act of 2007, provides law enforcement with critical tools and resources for preventing and enforcing violent crime. FBI crime statistics show that violent crime is on the rise. The violent crime rate for last year increased the largest amount in 15 years, and 2006 statistics show that Seattle and Bellevue, Washington, both saw an increase in violent crime, among other areas. Highlights of this legislation include: · Graduated restrictions for civil violations by federal firearms licensees; · Criminal law changes to prohibit criminals from transferring firearms knowing that the gun will be used to commit a crime of violence or drug trafficking crime; · Revised penalties for possession of firearms by convicted felons; · Increased penalties for use of interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder-for-hire and other felony crimes of violence; · Extension of statute of limitations to 10 years for violent crime or terrorism offenses; and, · Creation of a new offense for crimes of violence or drug crimes committed by illegal immigrants. WHO: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX) Rep. Randy Forbes (R-VA) Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA) Rep. Thelma Drake (R-VA) Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA) Rep. Ric Keller (R-FL) Rep. Marilyn Musgrave (R-CO) Rep. Jon Porter (R-NV) Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN) Rep. Heather Wilson (R-NM) WHAT: A press conference to announce a comprehensive package of bills to combat crime WHEN: TODAY, Wednesday, July 25 at 3:00 P.M. EDT WHERE: HC-9, The Capitol Washington, D.C. To schedule an interview with Congressman Reichert, contact Abigail Shilling by e-mail or phone: abigail.shilling@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-7761.
10.11.2006	Contact: Abigail Shilling (202) 225-7761 Mercer Island, WA, Oct 11, 2006 - Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) will deliver remarks at a Bellevue ceremony Thursday awarding a federal grant to the state of Washington for First Responder planning and training. The “Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness Grant” is being awarded by the U.S Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). The funding in the grant will be used to train and prepare local first responders to deal with hazardous materials. The announcement will take place at the Bellevue Fire Department, Station #6. Reichert will also be available for comment.WHO: Congressman Dave Reichert Admiral Thomas J. Barrett, PHMSA Administrator Ron Wilson, Project Manager, WA Emergency Management Division Eric Holdeman, Director, King County Office of Emergency Management Lt. Mark Arras, Washington State PatrolWHAT: Grant Announcement CeremonyWHEN: 10:30 AM, Thursday, October 12WHERE: Bellevue Fire Department Station, #6 1850 132nd Ave., NE Bellevue, WA 98005Directions: 520 East Exit onto 124th Left onto Bel-Red Road Left onto 132nd Ave., NE
07.24.2006	Washington, Jul 24, 2006 - WHO: Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Chairman and Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology **Other Members to be announced** WHAT: Detailing H.R. 5852, The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006 WHEN: 11:30 a.m., Tuesday, July 25, 2006 WHERE: 340 Cannon House Office Building BACKGROUND On Tuesday, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Science, and Technology, U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Ranking Member U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) will discuss the "21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006." The bill, originally approved as part of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Hurricane Katrina "Lessons Learned" legislation, takes the necessary steps to help ensure that our nation’s first responders are able to communicate during an emergency. Rep. Reichert, Rep. Pascrell and other members of the Committee drafted this legislation following recent Subcommittee hearings on the state of emergency communications. This bill will improve both operable and interoperable communications in the event of an emergency.
07.29.2005	U. S. Rep. Dave Reichert today issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 3058, the Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Conference Report for FY06. The conference report passed in a bipartisan majority, by a vote of 392-31. “I am pleased the House passed this important agreement today and I am particularly pleased that so many Washington State projects received funding. We managed to secure vital transportation funding for our region including the East Lake Sammamish Parkway, the Cross-Base Highway, and funds for Duvall’s main street reconstruction. It is vital that we continue to have federal dollars returned to Washington State for our transportation projects. But this bill has more than highway projects in it. I am also very happy that we were able to get funds for Mamma’s Hands, which provides transitional housing for women and children in crisis, and the Springwood Youth Center in Kent. As we debate spending priorities in Congress I am glad that these effective programs are getting recognition and important funding. Finally, as the Chairman of the Emergency Preparedness Subcommittee I am also very glad we managed to secure funding for the Bridge For Kids in Orting. We have all seen recently how important it is to invest in disaster preparedness; this is an important project that could save thousands of lives.” Reichert obtained appropriations for the following projects in this legislation: Total Reichert Funding: $11.75 million $750,000 for East Lake Sammamish Parkway: East Lake Sammamish Parkway is currently a 2-lane arterial roadway. These funds will be used to perform a complete environmental review and construct roadway improvements in Sammamish. $800,000 for Mamma’s Hands: Currently, Mamma’s Hands in East King County provides transitional shelter and services to women and their children in crisis at the House of Hope. This funding is for the purchase of an additional “SAFE HOUSE” that would provide short-term shelter and safety to those who need immediate protection from life-threatening situations. $250,000 for the Tolt Bridge Replacement: The Tolt Bridge connects the City of Carnation to SR-202 and SR- 520, providing access to the cities of Redmond, Bellevue and Seattle. $750,000 for “Bridge for Kids”: Bridge for Kids is a disaster-mitigation project to save thousands of lives in the Orting Valley in the case of an eruption of Mount Rainer. The imminent danger posed by Mount Rainier to a dense population area makes this an important project. $250,000 for the Building Better Futures program at the Springwood Youth Center (Kent Youth and Family Services): This project will rebuild the existing Springwood Community Center in Kent into a youth center, doubling the size, adding a gym, education and art rooms, a computer lab and a small kitchen to support the summer sack lunch program. It supports the existing youth outreach program which serves 3 large public housing sites in Kent, and also serves the East Hill of Kent, the only King County city of size without the presence of a Boys and Girls Club or a YMCA which could otherwise provide these services. $250,000 Reconstruction of Duvall’s Main Street: The existing sidewalks, storm water catch basins and lines, sewer lines and water lines are in need of repair and replacement in the “old town” portion of Duvall. $1.5 million for Sound Transit for the Eastgate Transit Access: The Eastgate Transit Access project will provide a direct transit connection between the Interstate 90 corridor and the Eastgate Park-and-Ride facility in Bellevue. Sound Transit will construct direct-access ramps connecting the High Occupancy Vehicle lanes on I-90 to King County’s Eastgate Park-and-Ride facility in Bellevue. $1.7 million for A-B Corridor Connector in Auburn: This will complete funding for the construction of the A-B Corridor Connector project in Auburn. It will construct a missing 1.47 mile link in a 3.5 mile North/South corridor beginning at the Auburn Station and ending at S. 277th Street on the northern city limits. The project will consist of a new 3-lane and 5-lane roadway with sidewalks constructed between 3rd Street, NW and 14th Street, NW. $2.5 million for Cross-Base Highway: This $2.5 million for FY06 is in addition to the $4 million over 5 years that Congressman Reichert secured in the SAFETEA-LU bill. It is for a new six-mile highway that will link I-5 with the mid-Pierce County area, including the Frederickson Employment Center. The new highway will cross portions of Fort Lewis Army Base and McChord Air Force Base and will include 4 lanes (2 in each direction) with a new interchange at I-5, a grade-separated crossing of the BNSF line that will accommodate future commuter and high-speed-freight rail, improved access and security to Fort Lewis and McChord, and signalized intersections at strategic locations. $3 million for Triangle Project (I-5/SR 18/SR 161) in Federal Way: These funds will be used for reconstruction of the interchange at I-5 and SR-18 in Federal Way. It will bring it up to current standards to alleviate safety and congestion issues associated with the outmoded cloverleaf interchange. The project will add ramps between SR-161 and I-5 to and from the north, thereby alleviating congestion at the interchange of SR-18 and SR-161.
03.05.2005	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today obtained $45 million in the final version of the House transportation bill, H.R. 3. In the end dealings between Committee and Leadership as the bill came to a vote, Reichert secure an additional $6.3 million to the $38.7 million received in Committee. “This bill responds to the unique transportation needs of the region,” said Reichert. “We lobbied hard for all of the district’s projects. The House has recognized our problems and delegated the appropriate funding to fix them. I’m excited to see these projects get started.” Along with 16 high priority projects originally receiving funding, two additional projects, Interstate 5 Interchange in Kent and Cross Base Highway, received resources in the version which passed on the floor today. “This bill has an incredible, positive impact for our district,” said Reichert. “It creates jobs—each construction project, highway repair and safety program requires new employees to get up and running. This is a positive and tangible impact for those in the district.” “H.R. 3 will put Americans to work by creating the kind of jobs that support families and increase our tax base,” Transportation Committee Chairman Don Young said. “It is much needed legislation that will move our country toward a stronger economy. I appreciate having the assistance of Committee members like Dave Reichert, who is an energetic advocate for his constituents and their transportation needs.” For every one billion dollars spent on road construction, 48,000 jobs are created. Of the nation’s freight, 67 percent moves on highways. House Speaker Dennis Hastert praised the bill’s passage, saying that economists believe that our ability to compete internationally is tied to the quality of our infrastructure. “We live in an era of just-in-time delivery and an increasingly global economy. It is unacceptable that traffic congestion leads to 3.6 billion hours of delay each year.” The total price tag of H.R. 3 reflects the Administration’s proposal of $283.9 billion over six years. The following high priority projects were included in today’s bill: Bellevue: $11.5 million for I-405/downtown circulation: This project will extend NE 2nd and NE 10th Streets from 112th Avenue NE eastward on bridges over I-405 to intersect with 116th Avenue NE. WSDOT: $4 million for I-90 Two Way HOV Lane: This project will provide two-way transit and HOV operations on I-90 between Seattle and Bellevue. Newcastle: $1 million for Coal Creek Parkway: This project is the replacement of an aging, two-lane bridge with a new, four-lane bridge that increases traffic flow, improves pedestrian and traffic safety, and meets modern seismic standards. Issaquah: $5 million for the Issaquah SE Bypass: This project involves the construction of a new bypass arterial on the eastern edge of the City of Issaquah. The proposed 1.5 mile roadway will provide a new connection to I-90 at the new Sunset Interchange from the Issaquah Hobart Road. Issaquah Trolley: $250,000 for the Issaquah Valley Trolley (IVT): This project will revitalize the downtown Issaquah area. IVT is seeking funding for Stage 1 to make an existing trolley car operational. The trolley will run just over a mile and connect a senior center and community center with a hospital, running through the business district. WSDOT $7.5 million for SR 18 Maple Valley to I-90: This project will widen SR 18 from Maple Valley to I-90 and will modify interchange of SR 18 and I-90. Maple Valley: $1 million for SR 169 and SR 516 improvements: This project will improve the intersection of State Highway 169 and State Highway 516 within the limits of Maple Valley. The project would address accident problems and relieve congestion consistent with the approved comprehensive plan for Maple Valley. Mountains to Sound Greenway: $600,000 for Scenic Byway Acquisition: This project will acquire 22.63-acre property and will fill one of the few remaining gaps in a 100-mile scenic highway corridor. Auburn: $500,000 for M Street SE (29th Street SE to 37th Street SE): This project will rehabilitate “M” Street SE between 29th Street SE and 37th Street SE (approximately ½ mile), including construction of new pedestrian facilities. The corridor is a primary walking route to and from 3 schools including two elementary and one middle school and is currently lacking pedestrian facilities. Kent: $500,000 Willis Street BNSF Railroad Grade Separation Project: This project will construct a bridge for the BNSF railroad and reconstruct Willis Street underneath the BNSF tacks. This project is a critical step towards providing a more seamless passage for rail and truck freight through the Green River Valley. $500,000 for Willis Street UP Railroad Grade Separation Project: The Willis Street (SR 516) UP Railroad Grade Separation Project will construct a bridge for the Union Pacific railroad and reconstruct Willis Street to pass underneath the UP tracks. $1.35 million for S. 272nd St. at Interstate 5 Interchange – Phase 1: This project will construct a single point urban interchange under I-5 in two phases. Phase 1 will include replacement of the northbound I-5 overpass with new structure, construction of HOV/Transit direct access ramps from I-5 to a S. 272nd Street, a new HOV/Transit traffic signal, and replacement of the 40-year old pavement on I-5 for roughly 3/4 mile on either side of S. 272nd Street. Phase 2 will replace the southbound overpass and complete the Single Point Urban Interchange (SPUI). Renton: $1 million for SR-167 HOV/SW 27th Street/Strander Boulevard Connection: This project will move the Union Pacific rail line to the current BNSF track. This move will allow further construction on Strander Boulevard. Enumclaw: $1.5 million for Welcome Center off SR 410: This project will build a Welcome Center within the Chinook Scenic Byway. The Chinook Scenic Byway is a section of State Route 410 designated as an All American Road. Buckley: $2 million for new alignments in Buckley: This project will provide for the extension of the 112th Street corridor, located west of State Route 165 and the Ryan Road corridor, located east of State Route 165 to a new intersection with State Route 165. Redmond: $1 million for ITS: This project will complete the fifth and final phase of Redmond’s multi-phase effort to upgrade, interconnect, coordinate and optimize old and outdated traffic signal control systems. In addition, this project will provide improved detection and monitoring of Redmond’s transportation system to provide better incident response and traveler information. North Bend: $800,000 for North Bend Park and Ride: This project will plan, design and construct 75-100 spaces for a park and ride facility in the City of North Bend. Pierce County: $5 million for Cross Base Highway: The project is a new six-mile highway that will link I-5 with the mid-Pierce County area, including the Frederickson Employment Center. The new highway will cross portions of Fort Lewis Army Base and McChord Air Force Base and will include 4 lanes (2 each direction) with a new interchange at I-5, a grade separated crossing of the BNSF line that will accommodate future commuter and high speed freight rail, improved access and security to Fort Lewis and McChord, and signalized intersections at strategic locations. # # #
03.02.2005	U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert today secured $37.5 million for the Eighth District in the final version of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). The bill passed by a vote of 412-8 and authorizes funds for the Federal highway, public transportation, highway safety, and motor carrier safety programs through fiscal year 2009. “This bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation the House will pass this year. The highway bill is about more than asphalt and roadways—this is about family, quality of life, and making the most out of our valuable free time. Each year traffic congestion causes 3.6 billion hours of delay. It is unacceptable for Americans to sit in traffic every day when they could be reading a book, spending time with their children or out in the community," said Reichert. “As a member of the Transportation Conference, I had the opportunity to highlight projects of local, regional and national significance that I believed would benefit Washington. Through many conversations with transportation leaders, I was able to secure $37.5 million for my district, as well as successfully focusing attention on the nearby Viaduct.” Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Don Young, underscored Reichert’s role in the Conference. "This is a critical piece of legislation and Dave Reichert played a key role in the development of our landmark Conference Report. He lobbied hard for his region's concerns and even brought me out to Washington to take a look at not only his district, but the surrounding areas transportation concerns. I learned a lot about the region's transportation issues and the very real need for funding to address the viaduct project,” said Young. "Dave and I talk regularly - he has an open line to me. He brought the Viaduct to the forefront and the Seattle area is lucky to have him. After a lot of hard work, Dave and the other Members of the Committee developed an important bill that's going to take a major step toward addressing the transportation problems and needs of every community in the nation." Funding for 19 high priority projects, in King and Pierce counties, was included in the final version of TEA-LU. According to House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, the bill provides $286.5 billion total, and is exactly what was negotiated with the President. “This money will not only improve traffic and streamline transportation systems; it will create jobs and stimulate the economy,” said Reichert. “For every $1 billion spent on road construction, 47,500 jobs are created. With 67 percent of our nation’s freight moving on highways, it makes sense that we are investing money in transportation that will at the same time grow our economy. Americans will benefit in multiple ways from the Highway Bill.” The following is a list of Reichert’s earmarked projects in the final Conference Report:Bellevue:$9.2 million for I-405/downtown circulation: This project will extend NE 2nd and NE 10th Streets from 112th Avenue NE eastward on bridges over I-405 to intersect with 116th Avenue NE.WSDOT$3.2 million for I-90 Two Way HOV Lane: This project will provide two-way transit and HOV operations on I-90 between Seattle and Bellevue.$6 million for SR 18 Maple Valley to I-90: This project will widen SR 18 from Maple Valley to I-90 and will modify interchange of SR 18 and I-90.Newcastle:$800,000 for Coal Creek Parkway: This project is the replacement of an aging, two-lane bridge with a new, four-lane bridge that increases traffic flow, improves pedestrian and traffic safety, and meets modern seismic standards.Issaquah:$4 million for the Issaquah SE Bypass: This project involves the construction of a new bypass arterial on the eastern edge of the City of Issaquah. The proposed 1.5 mile roadway will provide a new connection to I-90 at the new Sunset Interchange from the Issaquah Hobart Road.Issaquah Trolley:$200,000 for the Issaquah Valley Trolley (IVT): This project will revitalize the downtown Issaquah area. IVT is seeking funding for Stage 1 to make an existing trolley car operational. The trolley will run just over a mile and connect a senior center and community center with a hospital, running through the business district.Maple Valley:$800,000 for SR 169 and SR 516 improvements: This project will improve the intersection of State Highway 169 and State Highway 516 within the limits of Maple Valley. The project would address accident problems and relieve congestion consistent with the approved comprehensive plan for Maple Valley.Mountains to Sound Greenway: $480,000 for Scenic Byway Acquisition: This project will acquire 22.63-acre property and will fill one of the few remaining gaps in a 100-mile scenic highway corridor.Auburn:$400,000 for M Street SE (29th Street SE to 37th Street SE): This project will rehabilitate “M” Street SE between 29th Street SE and 37th Street SE (approximately ½ mile), including construction of new pedestrian facilities. The corridor is a primary walking route to and from 3 schools including two elementary and one middle school and is currently lacking pedestrian facilities.Kent:$1.08 million for S. 272nd St. at Interstate 5 interchange: This project will construct a single point urban interchange under I-5.$400,000 Willis Street BNSF Railroad Grade Separation Project: This project will construct a bridge for the BNSF railroad and reconstruct Willis Street underneath the BNSF tacks. This project is a critical step towards providing a more seamless passage for rail and truck freight through the Green River Valley.$400,000 for Willis Street UP Railroad Grade Separation Project: The Willis Street (SR 516) UP Railroad Grade Separation Project will construct a bridge for the Union Pacific railroad and reconstruct Willis Street to pass underneath the UP tracks.Renton:$800,000 for SR-167 HOV/SW 27th Street/Strander Boulevard Connection: This project will move the Union Pacific rail line to the current BNSF track. This move will allow further construction on Strander Boulevard.Enumclaw:$1.2 million for Welcome Center off SR 410: This project will build a Welcome Center within the Chinook Scenic Byway. The Chinook Scenic Byway is a section of State Route 410 designated as an All American Road.Buckley:$1.6 million for new alignments in Buckley: This project will provide for the extension of the 112th Street corridor, located west of State Route 165 and the Ryan Road corridor, located east of State Route 165 to a new intersection with State Route 165.Redmond:$800,000 for ITS: This project will complete the fifth and final phase of Redmond’s multi-phase effort to upgrade, interconnect, coordinate and optimize old and outdated traffic signal control systems. In addition, this project will provide improved detection and monitoring of Redmond’s transportation system to provide better incident response and traveler information.North Bend:$668,800 for North Bend Park and Ride: This project will plan, design and construct 75-100 spaces for a park and ride facility in the City of North Bend.Pierce County:$4 million for Cross-Base Highway, Spanaway Loop Road to SR 7: This project is a new six-mile highway that will link I-5 with the mid-Pierce County area, including the Frederickson Employment Center.Sound Transit:$1.5 million for I-90 Long-Range Plan Corridor Study: Sound Transit is analyzing high capacity transit options for the east side. Later this year a decision will be made between light rail and light rail convertible Bus Rapid Transit. Over the next year, Sound Transit is going to be studying the various alignments and conducting the required environmental review necessary to advance the project.
