04.25.2019	04.25.19 Senator David Perdue Supports Georgia’s Small Businesses Attends NFIB’s Small Business Day ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined NFIB Georgia’s Small Business Day at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. Click here to download a photo. “I’m proud to be here in Atlanta at NFIB’s Small Business Day to celebrate Georgia being the #1 state for small business,” said Senator David Perdue. “Small businesses are backbone of job creation in our communities. As a small businessman myself, I know firsthand how over-taxation and over-regulation stifles innovation and hinders a small business’s ability to compete. At the federal level, we’ve worked hard to get the economy going through historic tax cuts and regulatory rollbacks, and now these efforts are paying dividends for small businesses across the country.” “We appreciate Senator Perdue taking time to join us today at Small Business Day. Senator Perdue has shown us time and again that he’s a strong advocate for Georgia’s small businesses,” said Nathan Humphrey, NFIB’s state director for Georgia. “Our members are grateful to Senator Perdue for everything he’s done to help Georgians affected by last year’s hurricanes and for supporting the historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which provided much needed tax relief for Georgia’s job creators.” ###
04.25.2019	04.25.19 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Proposed Rule to Aid Rural Hospitals Isakson, Perdue wrote to Trump administration in March urging critical rule change ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded a move by the Trump administration to help ensure that rural hospitals are fairly reimbursed for their services under the Medicare program after the senators joined colleagues in urging the administration to make this critical change. The administration issued a proposed rule this week that would provide higher payments to hospitals in lower-income rural areas, helping to keep these hospitals open for patients and their communities. In March, Isakson and Perdue sent a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma requesting the agency update Medicare payment policies and increase the disproportionately low Medicare reimbursement payments to hospitals in underserved and economically struggling regions. “We’ve been working to correct this reimbursement issue for years, including through legislative solutions. Too many Georgia hospitals have been forced to close in recent years, and it appears that this rule change is consistent with our efforts,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate Committee on Finance, which oversees Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. “If so, this is a huge victory for Georgians and it will help ensure patients have continued access to emergency and medically necessary care. I’m grateful to the administration for its efforts to improve access to health care in rural and underserved areas, and I look forward to studying this rule in the days ahead.” “Health care providers should be focused on patient care, not Washington bureaucracy,” said Senator Perdue. “Unfortunately, over the last 30 years, rules and regulations have put rural hospitals at a disadvantage. Improving the wage index will help protect rural hospitals in Georgia from devastating reductions in Medicare payments and ensure the long-term viability of our health care network. This is an important step toward leveling the playing field, and Senator Isakson deserves a great deal of credit for his efforts on this issue.” The editorial board of the Columbus Ledger-Enquirer weighed in to support a change to the rule in 2016, citing hospital administrators at Tift Regional Health System based in Tifton, Ga., and Phoebe Putney Health System based in Albany, Ga., where health care systems that serve as safety nets have frequently become strained when other area hospitals close. The board wrote, “One sure way make to a rural health crisis self-perpetuating is a built-in reason for medical professionals not to go where they’re needed most.” Under the new proposal, the wage index of low wage index hospitals would be increased after changes to the rural payment calculation. Hospitals with a wage index below the 25th percentile would see an increase in reimbursement rates. The new rule is scheduled to be implemented in six months. Since 2010, seven Georgia hospitals have closed that would have benefitted from this rule change and Isakson’s legislation. In addition to Isakson and Perdue, the March 2019 letter was sent by Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Senators Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Doug Jones (D-AL), and Richard Shelby (R-AL). ###
04.25.2019	04.25.19 Senator David Perdue Tours ScottsMiracle-Gro Plant In Jackson JACKSON, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) toured ScottsMiracle-Gro’s Growing Media Plant in Jackson, Georgia, and met with employees. ScottsMiracle-Gro is the world’s largest marketer of branded consumer products for lawn and garden care, and the company recently expanded operations at its Jackson facility. Click here to download photos. “Having spent much of my career in manufacturing, I always enjoy getting an up-close look at manufacturing facilities in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business for six consecutive years, and much of that is because of investments from companies like Miracle-Gro. At the federal level, we’ve worked hard to get the economy going again, and Miracle-Gro’s employees are certainly benefiting from that. I’m delighted with the success Miracle-Gro has experienced in Georgia, and I appreciate their continued commitment to supporting communities in our state.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.24.2019	04.24.19 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud President Trump’s Commitment To Fighting Opioid Crisis Praise President’s Participation In Atlanta Opioid Summit ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded President Donald J. Trump for attending the 8th annual “Rx Drug Abuse & Heroin Summit” in Atlanta. During the summit, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump addressed federal, state, and local professionals working to address the opioid epidemic. “President Trump declared the opioid crisis a national emergency soon after taking office, and last year, Congress acted to pass bipartisan, comprehensive opioid legislation to improve our federal government’s response,” said Senator Isakson, a member of two Senate committees that oversee health care. “I appreciate the president’s continued emphasis on this problem, which has touched so many families, including my own. Georgia and states across the country, along with our medical community and first responders, now have better tools to fight this epidemic to help more Georgians and Americans. I thank the president for joining so many leaders in government, health care and nonprofits at this summit today in Atlanta.” “President Trump’s visit to Georgia today demonstrates his ongoing commitment to combating the opioid crisis that has devastated communities across the country,” said Senator Perdue. “Too many of our friends, neighbors, and family members have been impacted by this epidemic. President Trump knows this and has worked with Congress to confront this crisis head on. His Administration has taken strong measures to educate Americans on the dangers of drug abuse, invest in treatment programs for those struggling, and fight the flow of illegal drugs across the southern border. Thanks to President Trump, communities in Georgia and across the country now have the resources they need to better address the opioid crisis and ultimately save lives.” Background: President Trump, working alongside Congress, has taken historic action to confront the driving forces behind the opioid crisis. Isakson and Perdue helped pass the bipartisan Substance Use Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act, or SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act for short, in the Senate, and President Trump signed it into law in October 2018. The law addresses the opioid crisis through a multi-pronged approach, including prevention, treatment and recovery, support for caregivers and families, safety, medical research, and improved border security measures, in addition to tackling the crisis through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, Congress has appropriated $1.5 billion for State Opioid Response grants, which allow states to create action plans that meet the needs of their states. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.19.2019	04.19.19 Senator David Perdue Meets With Valmiera Glass Employees At Production Facility In Dublin DUBLIN, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visits Valmiera Glass Group’s production plant in Dublin, Georgia to meet with employees and tour the facility. Valmiera Glass produces glass fibre fabrics that are used for many technical applications and industries worldwide. Click here to download photos. “Companies like Valmiera Glass are a major reason why Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business for six consecutive years,” said Senator Perdue. “Valmiera is the largest producer of glass fibre in the United States. Just one year after opening their facility in Laurens County, Valmiera has already hired over 450 people for brand new jobs and become a vibrant part of the community. By focusing on apprenticeship programs, technical school cooperation, and consistent training for employees, Valmiera is providing unique and specialized career opportunities here in Middle Georgia. Thanks to the employees at Valmiera for welcoming us to their production plant and for making Georgia a leader in this industry.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.17.2019	04.17.19 Senator David Perdue Visits With UPS Employees In Sandy Springs SANDY SPRINGS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visits the UPS Headquarters in Sandy Springs, Georgia to meet with CEO David Abney and employees about economic growth in Georgia and across the country. Click here to download photos. “UPS continues to lead their industry on the global stage, and I’m proud they have chosen to plant their roots here in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “For six consecutive years, Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business. Companies like UPS deserve much of the credit for that success, and without a doubt, the recent tax cuts and regulatory rollback are helping our economy and will continue to do so. Thanks to everyone at UPS for welcoming us and for your continued commitment to supporting communities in Georgia.” “We are pleased to host Senator Perdue at UPS Headquarters,” said David Abney, UPS Chairman and CEO. “He is an ally of businesses, large and small. We appreciate his tireless support and advocacy in Washington for policies that make Georgia an attractive place to invest, work, learn and live.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.17.2019	04.17.19 Senator David Perdue Holds Roundtable Discussion On Georgia’s Emerging Tech Industry Meets With Cumming-Forsyth Chamber & Digital Ignition In Alpharetta ALPHARETTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins the Cumming-Forsyth County Chamber of Commerce at Digital Ignition in Alpharetta, Georgia for a roundtable discussion and tour of the co-working space for startups and digital media companies. Click here to download photos. “Georgia has become a hotbed for startups and emerging technology companies, and without a doubt, co-work spaces like Digital Ignition play a critical role in this innovation,” said Senator Perdue. “As a business guy, I know about the challenges of growing a company and keeping it competitive. I’m proud of the work Digital Ignition and the Cumming-Forsyth Chamber are doing to support Georgia entrepreneurs as they turn groundbreaking ideas into a reality.” “Last year, we engaged the local technology executives in Forsyth County to come together and meet on a bi-monthly basis to discuss ideas and items that are important to the tech community,” said Scott Evans, Senior Technology Project Manager for the Cumming-Forsyth County Chamber of Commerce. “The group, branded Forsyth Tech Execs, has grown from the original 14 to over 50 tech executives meeting on a regular basis. We are flattered that Senator Perdue has agreed to sit down with us and participate in our conversation. It speaks volumes that he’d take time from his busy schedule to sit down and hear directly from technology executives the ideas, issues and challenges circulating our industry. We are flattered, and it is our pleasure to welcome him here.” “Digital Ignition is a business launching pad for companies and entrepreneurs focused on innovation, partnerships and growth,” said Joanne Sanders, General Manager of Digital Ignition and President of EWISE Communications. “As the official incubator for Forsyth County, we work with our members, the tech community, and area businesses to bring cutting-edge Blockchain, AI, IoT and other product and service innovations to the U.S. market. We are honored to have a successful executive like Senator David Perdue foster dialogue and show his continued support for innovation in Georgia and beyond.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.15.2019	04.15.19 Senator David Perdue Declares April Financial Literacy Month “Financial literacy programs, like those taught in Georgia’s high schools, help open doors to brighter futures.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) and other senators in introducing a bipartisan resolution declaring April as Financial Literacy Month in an effort to highlight the importance of learning and maintaining healthy financial habits. Throughout his life, Senator Perdue has been heavily involved in literacy programs and served as Chairman of the National Commission on Literacy and Workforce Development. “Both of my parents were schoolteachers, and I’ve been involved in numerous literacy programs throughout my career,” said Senator Perdue. “Financial literacy programs, like those taught in Georgia’s high schools, help open doors to brighter futures and are proven to result in higher credit scores and lower default rates. By recognizing April as ‘Financial Literacy Month,’ we are encouraging others to adopt strong standards for financial literacy and raise awareness to the importance of a personal financial education.” According to a 2017 report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), approximately 25 percent of households in the United States are unbanked or underbanked and have limited or no access to savings, lending, and other basic financial services. Financial literacy empowers individuals to make wise financial decisions and reduces the difficulty of making decisions in an increasingly complex economy. Background on financial literacy in Georgia: · Studies have shown that states with financial literacy standards, like Georgia, graduate students from college with higher reported credit scores and lower default rates than students who graduated before a mandate was put into place. · The Georgia Department of Education has one of the most robust mandates for financial literacy in the country. The state requires a personal finance requirement for high school graduation, taught in an economics course, and financial literacy is also incorporated into Georgia’s high school social studies standards. · Georgia is ranked number 29 in most financially literate states, up from 36 in 2016. · The average student loan debt per person in Georgia is $28, 653. The resolution was also cosponsored by Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Cory Booker (D-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Mike Braun (R-IN), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS), Doug Jones (D-AL), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Patty Murray (D-WA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN). ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.11.2019	04.11.19 Senators Decry Lack Of Action On Disaster Aid For Suffering States WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today joined Senate colleagues, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), in expressing disappointment in Congress’ failure to deliver critical disaster aid to their states to assist in recovery efforts from natural disasters in 2018 and 2019. It has been six months since Georgia and Florida took a direct hit from Hurricane Michael. The senators have worked to negotiate in good faith since 2018 on a bipartisan disaster relief package to provide funding across the continental United States as well as Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands for regions that have experienced droughts, flooding, hurricanes, storms, volcanoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. Many of these states, including Georgia, have not received the federal disaster assistance they were promised months ago. Other states would see a down payment on disasters that have occurred more recently, such as in the Midwest where flooding is ongoing, and in Alabama and Georgia where tornadoes devastated lives and communities earlier this year. Historically, the federal government has stepped in to help victims recovering from natural disasters, and the same action is overdue and badly needed for these affected states. Despite months of negotiations, efforts to advance funding have stalled over partisan disagreements. “Democrats ought to be ashamed of themselves for holding hostage farmers in the Southeast, fire victims in California, earthquake victims in Alaska, and flood victims in the upper Midwest,” said Senator Perdue. “This is yet another example of Democrat obstructionism. Last weekend, Senate Republican appropriators made another fair offer, but Democrats outright rejected it. President Trump and Senate Republicans have been more than reasonable in dealing with Democrats’ requests throughout this process. Previous disaster relief packages were not held up like this. Farmers in Georgia and across the country are missing planting season right now because Democrats have been unwilling to negotiate. Time is of the essence, and we must get this disaster relief done immediately, so those who have lost everything can rest assured that help is on the way.” “This lack of funding has put Georgia farmers at the breaking point. It is a shame that politics has again gotten in the way of aid for the people of our states who are in desperate need and for farmers who put food on our tables,” said Senator Isakson. “I am extremely disappointed that Congress will be leaving for a two-week state work period without a resolution and much-needed funding on the way for our states, which have already been pressed to cover disaster recovery expenses beyond what they can afford. We’ve asked Democrats to help the residents of our states. This is a disaster bill, and it’s not about politics, it’s about getting all Americans the help they need. I’m eager to work to get it done so farmers can get loans and get back to work.” “Families across the country are still reeling from devastating natural disasters. It is beyond unfortunate that Democrats in Congress continue to block additional relief,” said Majority Leader McConnell. “The Senate has had ample opportunity to approve an aid package to help affected communities all across the country -- from the Southeast to the Midwest to the West Coast to Puerto Rico. But Democrats preferred to pick a political fight with President Trump instead. A number of my colleagues, particularly Senators Isakson, Perdue, Ernst, Rubio, Scott, Sullivan, and Tillis, have been stalwart champions for their states despite the partisan obstruction. We won’t stop working until we get this job done.” “Historic flooding has devastated farms, destroyed homes, and damaged vital infrastructure systems in Missouri,” said Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). “I’m disappointed Senate Democrats have stood in the way of getting much-needed resources to flood impacted areas. We need to get this aid package to the president’s desk. With damage assessments still ongoing, we must also be ready to move forward on any additional assistance that will be needed to help communities recover.” “I am deeply disappointed that Senate Democrats are choosing to prevent us from passing much-needed disaster relief,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “It has been six months since Hurricane Florence hit the Carolinas, inflicting catastrophic damage and flooding. Too many families are still waiting on help to rebuild their homes, small businesses are working overtime to meet another tourist season, and our military bases are in desperate need of repairs to maintain readiness. These delay tactics have to end, and the Senate must take up the disaster relief bill immediately upon its return.” “Nebraskans are suffering after being hit by blizzards and severe flooding. It’s extremely upsetting that Senate Democrats are holding Nebraska’s relief funds hostage over their demand for additional resources for Puerto Rico, which already has received $41 billion in approved funds,” said Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE). “People in my state are traumatized, and we need to get a funding bill that includes Nebraska passed now. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides to do so.” “Iowa farmers are under water, literally and financially, due to the floods that have ravaged portions of the state,” said Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA). “It is the responsibility of Congress to step up during times of crisis and help out our fellow Americans. But rather than come to the aid of disaster victims in Iowa and throughout the country, congressional Democrats are playing politics. Iowans who need help to put their lives back together will certainly remember this as the same Democrat senators who voted ‘no’ ask for their vote in 2020.” “Although more will be needed in the future, this package would have expedited critical aid for Missourians whose homes, crops, and livestock have been destroyed by catastrophic flooding,” said Senator Josh Hawley (R-MO). “It’s shameful that Democrats would hold hostage aid to farmers and ranchers in order to settle political scores. This is Washington at its worst.” “After the 7.1 earthquake shook Alaska and thousands of aftershocks continued to shake Alaskans, our constituents came together to support their neighbors, strangers and each other – just as Americans in other states and territories have pulled together in the face of hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires. They didn’t take a break or look to leverage each other. They just worked together to respond,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK). “I am disappointed we can’t follow their example and are instead looking to adjourn rather than rolling up our sleeves and compromising to get this disaster supplemental bill done for our fellow Americans.” “Playing politics with disaster funding may score Senate Democrats points with their far-left base for ‘resisting’ the president, but it comes at the expense of real people and communities in Florida,” said Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL). “It’s been six months since Hurricane Michael struck Florida’s Panhandle, and we’re up against a very real deadline to deliver much-needed resources. Inaction and obstruction are inexcusable, and I’m ready to work with any of my Democratic colleagues who are willing to set politics aside to do their jobs.” “The political hackery from Senate Democrats is dumb and it needs to end now,” said Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE). “We’re still recovering from the biggest natural disaster in our state's history. Nebraskans rolled up their sleeves and went to work, but Congress is playing typical partisan politics. This is shameful.” “It’s frustrating that it has taken so long to secure this critical disaster relief for communities as they try to rebuild,” said Senator Rick Scott (R-FL). “Families in the Florida panhandle and in Puerto Rico are suffering, and Congress needs to act. I’m working with Republicans and Democrats to get this done. We can’t wait any longer.” “Alaskans are a tough, resilient, and caring people,” said Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK).“Within hours of the last November’s earthquake, the response of our local Emergency Response personnel, Alaska Department of Transportation and countless others that were out inspecting and repairing infrastructure within hours was phenomenal. However, there’s still much rebuilding that needs to be done to make Alaskans whole, and it’s unfortunate that a bipartisan relief package could not be reached this week – which would have provided much needed disaster funding to states like Alaska that seek to further that rebuilding process in the aftermath of a major natural disaster.” “Since before Hurricane Florence made landfall in North Carolina, I’ve been working with my colleagues on a bipartisan basis to secure federal relief to help our communities recover from the historic flooding damage,” said Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC). “While we were successful in providing an initial down payment for North Carolina, many families, farmers, and our military communities still need more federal assistance and time is of the essence. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer needs to stop the partisan political posturing so we can reach a deal. North Carolinians have already waited long enough for the federal resources they need to recover and rebuild.” Senators Perdue and Isakson personally visited parts of Georgia devastated by Hurricane Michael in October with Vice President Mike Pence and pushed for immediate federal funding. After funding was not obtained by the end of 2018, Perdue and Isakson twice introduced disaster relief amendments to legislative vehicles under consideration by the Senate. Perdue and Isakson then introduced a $13.6 billion disaster relief package with the backing of President Donald Trump after prior funding attempts were removed from other supplemental spending packages. Perdue and Isakson have repeatedly gone down to the Senate floor to impress upon their colleagues the urgent need for disaster aid funding. On April 1, the Senate took votes on two amendments that would have provided funding for Georgia and other disasters, and both pieces of legislation failed to receive the necessary 60 votes to move forward. Background: On November 30, 2018, Perdue and Isakson sent two letters requesting additional funding for disaster assistance for Georgians recovering after Hurricane Michael: the first letter to Senate appropriators and the second to Senate leadership. On January 31, Perdue and Isakson introduced a supplemental agriculture disaster relief amendment to provide critical funding for Georgia and other states recovering from recent hurricane and wildfire damage. On February 13, Perdue and Isakson joined 11 other bipartisan senators in sending a letter to House and Senate leadership urging immediate action on a supplemental disaster relief package. On February 26, Perdue and Isakson joined Doug Jones (D-AL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rick Scott (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-SC), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) to introduce a $13.6 billion disaster relief package with the backing of President Trump after prior funding attempts were removed from other supplemental spending packages. ###
04.10.2019	04.10.19 Senators Introduce Protect Act To Ensure Affordable Coverage For Americans With Pre-Existing Conditions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and other senators in introducing the Protect Act, legislation that protects Americans with pre-existing conditions, ensuring that Americans have the peace of mind knowing that they and their loved ones will never be denied health care coverage or be charged more because of a pre-existing condition. The Protect Act amends the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) to: Guarantee the availability of health insurance coverage in the individual or group market, regardless of pre-existing conditions; Prohibit discrimination against patients based on health status – including prohibiting increased premiums for patients due to pre-existing conditions; and Prohibit insurance companies from excluding coverage of treatments for a beneficiary’s pre-existing condition. “Obamacare is running off the rails, and we have to do something to make sure people with pre-existing conditions are protected no matter what,” said Senator Perdue. “Right now, the insurance packages being offered to most Americans are so expensive that they can't afford them. Premiums and deductibles have skyrocketed and priced people out of the market. In Georgia, 96 counties of 159 have just one carrier. Democrats claim they are covering pre-existing conditions with the so-called ‘Affordable Care Act,’ but if you can't actually afford insurance, you're not protected from anything. President Trump is ready to work with Congress and get this done for the American people, and this bill is a good first step in that process.” “I strongly believe that no hardworking American should ever have to go to bed worried about being denied coverage or treatment if they or their children have a pre-existing condition, which is why I’m introducing the Protect Act,” said Senator Tillis. “The American people have two distinct choices when it comes to the future of their health care. The one-size-fits-all approach being pushed by Democrats is a government takeover of our health care system and would eliminate choices for families. The American people deserve better. The Protect Act is an important first step towards protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions and pursuing patient-centered reform that will provide all Americans with the affordable and quality choices that work best for their needs and their budget.” Other co-sponsors of the Protect Act include Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Barrasso (R-WY), Rick Scott (R-FL), John Kennedy (R-LA), Todd Young (R-IN), Tom Cotton (R-AR), and Richard Burr (R-NC). Read more about the Protect Act here. ###
04.10.2019	04.10.19 Senators Perdue, Cotton, Hawley Re-Introduce the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy Act Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Tom Cotton (R-AR), and Josh Hawley (R-MO) today re-introduced the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, a bill that would spur continued economic growth and raise working Americans' wages by giving priority to the best-skilled immigrants from around the world. The RAISE Act is supported by President Trump and has been described by the White House as a bill that "will create a merit-based immigration system that protects our workers, our taxpayers, and our economy." "Our current immigration system is broken and is not meeting the needs of our growing economy,” said Senator Perdue. “If we want to continue to be the global economic leader, we have to welcome the best and brightest from around the world who wish to come to the United States legally to work and make a better life for themselves. This will require a skills-based immigration system that is pro-growth and pro-worker. The RAISE Act is proven to work and is still the only plan that responds to the needs of our economy, while preserving quality jobs and wages for American workers.” "I'm proud to reintroduce the RAISE Act supported by the White House,” said Senator Cotton. “For decades, our immigration system has been completely divorced from the needs of our country and has harmed the livelihoods of working-class Americans. The RAISE Act would build an immigration system that increases working-class wages, creates jobs, and gives every citizen a fair shot at achieving the American Dream, no matter whether their family came over on the Mayflower or just took the Oath of Allegiance.” "We need an immigration system that puts American workers first,” said Senator Hawley. “Our broken immigration policies hurt hardworking Americans and the talented individuals who are stuck in line, waiting to contribute to our country. With the RAISE Act, the United States can finally end chain migration and move to a merit-based system. All Americans deserve rising wages, a growing economy, and an equal shot at the American Dream.” Specifically, the RAISE Act would: Establish a Skills-Based Points System. The RAISE Act would replace the current permanent employment-visa system with a skills-based points system, akin to the systems used by Canada and Australia. The system would prioritize those immigrants who are best positioned to succeed in the United States and expand the economy. Applicants earn points based on education, English-language ability, high-paying job offers, age, record of extraordinary achievement, and entrepreneurial initiative. Prioritize Immediate Family Households. The RAISE Act would retain immigration preferences for the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents while eliminating preferences for certain categories of extended and adult family members. Eliminate the Outdated Diversity Visa Lottery. The Diversity Lottery is plagued with fraud, advances no economic or humanitarian interest, and does not even promote diversity. The RAISE Act would eliminate the 50,000 visas arbitrarily allocated to this lottery. Place a Responsible Limit on Permanent Residency for Refugees. The RAISE Act would limit refugees offered permanent residency to 50,000 per year, in line with a 13-year average. Click here to read the full text of the legislation. ###
04.09.2019	04.09.19 Senators Perdue, Whitehouse Take Action To Cut Wasteful Spending & Modernize Federal Government Introduce Bipartisan Bill To End Daily Printing Of Federal Register WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) are taking action to cut unnecessary spending and paper use in the United States Federal Government. Senators Perdue and Whitehouse today introduced the bipartisan Federal Register Modernization Act to prohibit the Government Printing Office (GPO) from automatically printing copies of the Federal Register, which is already available electronically, without charge for Members of Congress or any employee of the U.S. government. This will allow the federal government to better utilize technology, ease administrative burdens placed on agencies, and promote the Federal Register’s dedication to using digital platforms to better inform the public. “Every single year, the United States federal government basically lights one million of taxpayers’ dollars on fire,” said Senator Perdue. “With a $22 trillion debt crisis, it’s ridiculous that we waste precious time and resources printing a 300-page book each day that will never be used. Our country is leading the world in technology advancement and internet connectivity, so it’s time for government agencies to get up-to-speed. This is a start, but Congress should use this commonsense approach to cut wasteful spending across the entire federal government.” “There are lots of small, but meaningful ways the government can use technology to benefit our environment and reduce costs,” said Senator Whitehouse. “The Federal Register Modernization Act is a sensible, bipartisan bill to ensure that the public has access to the information in the Federal Register and eliminate outdated rules that burden federal agencies.” More than 1,000 copies of the Federal Register are printed every business day, even though the document has been fully-accessible online since 1994. Each copy of the Federal Register averages 300 pages and costs $4.50 to produce and distribute, which amounts to around $1 million every year. The Federal Register compiles and organizes thousands of rules, regulations, executive orders, presidential documents, and notices generated by federal departments and agencies. The Federal Register Modernization Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a nearly unanimous vote on March 12, 2019. ###
04.09.2019	04.09.19 Senator David Perdue Meets With U.S. Fleet Forces Command Seapower Chairman: “Retiring the Truman would be irresponsible.” NORFOLK, VA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower, visited the United States Fleet Forces Command in Norfolk, Virginia to meet with fleet leadership and witness sea and flight operations aboard the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier. Senator Perdue is the first and only member of the U.S. Senate to visit the USS Truman since the Department of Defense announced its intention to retire the aircraft carrier. Click here to download photos. “As chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee, I know a robust naval fleet is critical to deter aggression worldwide, project power, and defend our country,” said Senator Perdue. “After seeing the USS Harry S. Truman’s sea and flight operations firsthand, it’s clear this carrier plays a significant role in our national security. Retiring the Truman is inconsistent with the Navy’s strategic 12-carrier requirement and would be irresponsible, unless the Navy shifts its long-term carrier requirement.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.08.2019	04.08.19 Senator David Perdue Reaffirms Steadfast Support For Israel “I wanted to send a message that there are friends in the U.S. Senate who will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the state of Israel.” LAS VEGAS, NV – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) delivered remarks and introduced Vice President Mike Pence at the Republican Jewish Coalition’s National Conference. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Shoulder-To-Shoulder: “I was sworn into the United States Senate in January 2015. In early February of that year, my first international trip was to Israel because I wanted to send a message that there are friends in the U.S. Senate who will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the state of Israel.” Reestablished Support For Israel: “President Trump and Vice President Pence have reestablished American support for Israel. Under their leadership, America withdrew from the onerous and ridiculous Iran nuclear deal. America recognized Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And yes, America finally moved our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and told the world that we’ll stand by Israel no matter what comes.” Clear Contrast: “On President Obama’s first international trip, he went to the Middle East. He apologized for America seven different times. He did not visit our friends in Israel. Contrast that to President Trump – his first international trip was to guess where? Israel.” Best Economic Turnaround: “After eight years of the lowest economic growth in U.S. history, President Trump and Vice President Pence made America some promises. They said they would get the economy going again and give us a chance. And guess what? They did. Today our economy is growing at twice the rate as it did under Barack Obama. This is the best economic turnaround in American history.” America First Does Not Mean America Alone: “Not only are they growing our economy, but they’ve reengaged with the rest of the world after a decade of disengagement and disinvestment in our own military. They’ve made it clear to the rest of the world that it’s America first now, but that does not mean America alone.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.05.2019	04.05.19 Senator David Perdue Attends Aviation Partnership Announcement In Macon MACON, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today helped announce a major aviation partnership between Macon-Bibb County, Central Georgia Technical College, and Robins Air Force Base. Senator Perdue was joined by Governor Brian Kemp, Mayor Robert Reichert, and Brigadier General John C. Kubinec, commander of Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex. The partnership will co-locate Robins’ 402nd Commodities Maintenance Group with Central Georgia Technical College educational training programs at the former Boeing manufacturing facility in Macon. If approved, this partnership will be a first-of-its kind, workplace-based education and training program. Click here to download photos. “It’s a great day for Middle Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Robins Air Force Base is one of Georgia’s greatest assets, and today’s announcement demonstrates Middle Georgia’s commitment to fulfilling the needs of not just Robins Air Force Base, but the entire Air Force. Once approved, this partnership will allow Robins to bolster capacity, take on more work assignments, and grow the local workforce of trained aircraft technicians. Brigadier General Kubinec, Chairman Robbie Fountain, Mayor Reichert, Commissioner Matt Arthur, Dr. Ivan Allen, and the 21st Century Partnership have been stalwarts in this effort, and I appreciate their leadership to make this partnership a reality.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.05.2019	04.05.19 Senator David Perdue Speaks At Fort Valley State University Highlights Importance Of HBCUs In Georgia’s Agriculture Community FORT VALLEY, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus and Senate Agriculture Committee, today spoke at the Fort Valley State University 37th Annual Ham & Egg Legislative Breakfast. Senator Perdue was joined by Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), and President of Fort Valley State University Dr. Paul Jones. Last year, Senator Perdue and Congressman David Scott (D-GA-13) secured funding in the 2018 Farm Bill for agriculture-focused scholarships at Historically Black Land-Grant Colleges and Universities across the country, including Fort Valley State University. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “As a member of the HBCU Caucus, one of my top priorities is increasing opportunities for all students to pursue the skills they need to succeed,” said Senator Perdue. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. Last year, Congressman David Scott and I worked to secure funding in the 2018 Farm Bill for new agriculture scholarships at HBCUs across the country, including Fort Valley State University. These scholarships will help encourage diverse and qualified leadership in our agricultural community. Thanks to Dr. Paul Jones for inviting Sonny, Congressman Bishop, and myself to Fort Valley State University to highlight their work to help young Georgia farmers become the nation’s next agriculture leaders.” “Our food and our planet should unite us all, and the federal and state officials who work together to enact policy which empowers both agricultural professionals and students are a testament to what we can accomplish by working in concert,” said FVSU President Paul Jones. “Governmental initiatives like the 2018 Farm Bill set the stage for Georgia and America increase their global competitiveness in the business and science of agriculture. Together we are enabling not just Fort Valley State University, but all of Georgia and the nation, to rise up and meet the challenges our future demands.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.04.2019	04.04.19 Air Force Chief: “ABMS is on track, and Robins is Going to Lead the Way.” Senator Perdue Gets Answers on Progress of New Battle Management System at Robins Air Force Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today questioned General David L. Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force, on progress to bring the new Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS) online. Last June, the Air Force announced that it will locate the new mission at Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia. Senator Perdue continues to work with Air Force leadership, Robins, and the 21st Century Partnership to ensure the new battle management system is developed efficiently, while continuing to fly the existing E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) to prevent any capability gaps. Click here to watch. Senator Perdue: “In June of 2018, the Air Force announced that Robins Air Force Base would actually host some of the initial elements of ABMS. Can you give us an update on what’s happened in the last year – how that’s progressing, how the system developing, and how you’re managing the gaps from current technology into this new model? General Goldfein: “The decision to place ABMS at Robins was based primarily on the fact that that’s where our PhDs of battle management exist. We looked first and foremost at that community who understands this business better than any community and said they’re the ‘doctors of battle management’ that we need to lead us into the future. There are three increments to this transition: “Increment One is focused on taking the current sensors we have and advancing and connecting them in ways that they’re not currently connected... “Increment Two is about bringing on new sensor capability. Many of those are going to be in space. “Increment Three will connect it all together. We’ve just brought on an architect, Mr. Preston Dunlop, to lead us through that. His first stop was to meet the ‘doctors of battle management’ at Robins, and I believe he is still there today. “We’re on track, and Robins is going to lead the way.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate Action To Speed Up Confirmations “The Democrats’ blatant obstruction has to stop.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. Senate’s action to speed up the confirmation process and end obstruction of President Trump’s nominees. Since coming to the Senate, Senator Perdue has led efforts to make Congress work more efficiently and effectively in advancing important policies and funding the government on time. “Since President Trump was elected, we have witnessed historic obstructionism from Senate Democrats,” said Senator Perdue. “One of the fundamental responsibilities of the United States Senate is to provide advice and consent on presidential nominations. President Trump continues to nominate highly qualified and skilled individuals to fill positions within his administration. Yet, for the first time in U.S. history, the minority party is using obscure rules of the Senate to force up to 30 hours of debate on mid-level, non-controversial nominees. We should always look for ways to make the Senate more efficient and effective, and this action to end unnecessary confirmation delays is long overdue. The Democrats’ blatant obstruction has to stop.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Senator David Perdue: This Is The Ultimate Political Hypocrisy Slams Senate Democrats For Blocking Bipartisan Disaster Relief Package WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Fox News America’s Newsroom to discuss his work to pass disaster relief in Congress. Earlier this week, Senate Democrats blocked a bipartisan disaster relief package that would have helped Georgia and other areas of the country recovering from recent natural disasters, including Puerto Rico. Click here to watch. Highlights: President Trump Backed Disaster Relief: “Farmers in the Southeast have been devastated by Hurricane Michael. Our bill also had help for wildfire victims in California and flood victims in the upper Midwest, as well as nutritional assistance for the people in Puerto Rico. This was a compromise bill. President Trump supported it, negotiated, and was totally willing to sign the bill into law. That’s the reason we got it on the floor in the Senate for a vote.” Pure Partisan Politics: “This is nothing but partisanship. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer don’t want to let President Trump have any victory on any issue. It’s same thing we saw on border security. For years, Democrats said there’s a crisis at the border. Even President Obama built 135 miles of barrier along the southern border and called it a crisis. Now that President Trump wants to address it, the Democrats say it's terrible. The same hypocrisy is applying on this disaster relief.” Political Hypocrisy: “Senator Feinstein voted against $6 billion of aid for her state and for the victims of the wildfires. This is the ultimate political hypocrisy, and it’s the reason so many Americans are furious with the U.S. Senate right now.” Put It In Perspective: “In 2013, the federal government appropriated $50 billion for the victims of Hurricane Sandy, mostly in New Jersey. In 2017, $136 billion was appropriated for three different hurricanes and wildfires. Our disaster relief package was just $13.5 billion, and $3 billion of that went to the farmers in the Southeast. We had a compromise disaster relief bill, and it should have been passed.” Not Giving Up On Disaster Relief: “We are still negotiating and working on it. We’ll find some way to get disaster relief to the Senate floor. We have to make sure it can pass the House as well.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Senator David Perdue Talks Disaster Relief & China Trade Negotiations On Bloomberg WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Bloomberg TV to discuss the critical need to pass a disaster relief package and ongoing trade negotiations with China. Click here to watch. Highlights: Democrats Obstructing Disaster Relief: “This is the height of obstructionism. We could have given the Democrats everything they asked for in the disaster relief package, and they still would have found something to say no about. President Trump acquiesced and met them in the middle on Puerto Rico nutrition assistance. Funding for the nutrition program was expiring, and the President agreed to an extension of about $600 million. We thought we had a deal with the Democrats based on that.” Farmers Need Relief: “Farmers are really desperate right now in Georgia and many parts of the country, not only because of the trade situation, but also because of the unresolved disaster relief we have been working on for the last few weeks.” Times Is Of The Essence: “We are going to keep trying every day, but time is of the essence. Some farmers will lose their farms over this delay while we’re trying to get relief to them.” Level The Playing Field: “I give the Trump Administration high marks for engaging with China on trade. Over the last 30 years, we have seen the rapid rise of China. We have seen China’s abuse of stealing our technology, forced transfer of technology, and rapid growth. What we’ve done is ask them for a negotiation to create a level playing field.” Optimistic About Trade Negotiations: “I applaud President Trump for this cooling-off period with China. We encouraged the President to have an off-ramp when we started these negotiations, and he did that. I am really optimistic we are going to get a good result on trade.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.01.2019	04.01.19 Senator David Perdue Slams Democrats For Blocking Disaster Relief Bill “What we just witnessed here is nothing but pure partisan politics.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor after Senate Democrats voted to block a disaster relief package for Georgia and other areas of the country recovering from recent natural disasters, including Puerto Rico. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Pure Partisan Politics: “What we just witnessed here on the floor of the United States Senate is nothing but pure partisan politics. Senate Democrats have blocked our disaster relief bill because they said it doesn’t include enough money for Puerto Rico. To date, $40 billion in federal disaster relief aid has already been allocated for Puerto Rico. How much aid have the farmers of the Southeast received after Hurricane Michael six months ago? Not one dime.” Democrats Are Hypocritical: “President Trump stepped up and did the right thing with regard to Puerto Rico. He agreed to support $600 million of additional nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico so their benefits wouldn’t run out. I give him high marks for doing that. Tonight, I can only think of one word for my colleagues across the aisle: hypocritical. They asked for this funding and then voted against it.” Don’t Be Fooled: “The American people are not stupid. It’s clear this has nothing to do with Puerto Rico. It has everything to do with obstructing this President and preventing him from keeping his promise to help the American people recover from tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, and floods that have ravaged our communities.” Gambling With People’s Lives: “Democrats ought to be ashamed. They’re holding our farmers hostage right now for their own political gain. It’s unacceptable. They’re gambling with people’s lives, and I don’t overstate that. Some people won’t recover from this. They’ll get out of farming.” Look Farmers In The Eye: “I challenge each of the senators who voted against this disaster relief bill tonight to come down to Georgia, go to Florida, go to South Carolina, and look at the farmers, look them in the eye and tell them that tonight they chose politics over helping Americans in need.” Not Giving Up: “We’re not giving up. This is not the end of this tale. I want the farmers and the local bankers to understand we are going to continue this fight. To the people who this has affected – don’t lose heart. We will get it done.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.01.2019	04.01.19 Senator David Perdue On Congress’ Failure To Pass Disaster Relief “Senate Democrats are using farmers in the Southeast and the people of Puerto Rico as pawns in their political game.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. Senate’s failure to pass a bipartisan disaster relief package for Georgia and other areas of the country impacted by recent natural disasters, including Puerto Rico. “Washington has reached a new low,” said Senator Perdue. “It’s been nearly six months since Hurricane Michael ravaged Georgia and other states across the country, and Congress has failed to help the very people it claims to represent. President Trump reached across the aisle, along with other Republicans, to compromise on disaster relief, but only one Democrat was willing to work with us. Do not be fooled – Senate Democrats are using farmers in the Southeast and the people of Puerto Rico as pawns in their political game. It is hypocritical that Democrats say they want to help Puerto Rico recover, and yet they obstruct this disaster relief. Senator Isakson and I are not giving up. We will continue fighting until we get relief for the people of Georgia and other Americans across the country.” In February, Senator Perdue, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and a group of senators introduced a bipartisan disaster relief package with funding for Georgia and other states that are recovering from recent hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.01.2019	04.01.19 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Support For Disaster Relief Package “It’s time to put aside individual political interests and pass this disaster relief bill for Americans who are depending on us.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s support for disaster relief for Georgia and other states impacted by recent natural disasters. “President Trump has been resolute in his support for the people of Georgia and other areas of our country who have been devastated by natural disasters, including Puerto Rico,” said Senator Perdue. “It’s unacceptable that Washington’s intransigence continues to threaten the livelihoods of the very people who sent us here to represent them. Every day we continue debating disaster relief is a day people across the country face crippling uncertainty. It’s time to put aside individual political interests and pass this disaster relief bill for Americans who are depending on us.” In February, Senator Perdue, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and a group of senators introduced a bipartisan disaster relief package with funding for Georgia and other states that are recovering from recent hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. Senator Perdue spoke on the Senate floor last week to urge support for this bipartisan disaster relief package. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.27.2019	03.27.19 Senator David Perdue: No Collusion, No Obstruction…No Kidding WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Mornings with Maria to discuss conclusion of the Mueller investigation, the Green New Deal’s failure in the Senate, and the need to rein in government spending. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Time To Legislate, Not Investigate: “No collusion, no obstruction…no kidding. That’s what the President has been saying for two years. Let’s be very clear - this is the false narrative that the left has been perpetrating for two years. The Democrats have shown they don't want to legislate. They’re only going to investigate. That’s not what the American people want right now. It's time to move on.” Economic Agenda Is Working: “President Trump’s agenda is working, and the left wants to do anything they can to not talk about the results. We had eight years of the worst economic performance in U.S. history under President Obama. Now, Republicans have proven that what we believe in actually works. We've worked on regulations, energy, taxes, and even Dodd-Frank. Look what's happening to the economy.” Hypocrisy: “Democrat Senators were demanding to debate the Green New Deal and then they wouldn’t even give it a positive vote. I call that hypocrisy. I never dreamed in my lifetime we'd be sitting here talking about the types of things that are included in the Green New Deal or in the ‘Modern Monetary Theory’ that they're now espousing to pay for it. This is just ridiculous.” Saving Social Security & Medicare: “Discretionary spending, which will soon be only about 25 percent of what the federal government spends, is actually moderated right now. The real problem is in mandatory spending, and we're not even addressing how to save Social Security and Medicare. The Medicare trust fund goes to zero in eight years. We’ve got to get after that.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.27.2019	03.27.19 Senator David Perdue Chairs First Seapower Subcommittee Hearing “We will work with the Navy and Marine Corps to build a larger, more capable fleet, while demanding the best use of every taxpayer dollar.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Service Committee, today led his first hearing as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Seapower. Chairman Perdue will use his business experience to ensure the Pentagon is using resources in the most efficient and effective manner. Click here to watch Chairman Perdue’s opening remarks. Chairman Perdue’s Opening Remarks: This is my first public meeting as chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee. I’m humbled to be leading this Subcommittee and will do all I can to support our men and women in uniform. Today, we have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the oldest and smallest Air Force ever. At the same time, we face complex threats from China, North Korea, Russia, and Iran. A robust naval fleet is critical to deter aggression worldwide, project power, and support our allies. The Subcommittee on Seapower will provide vital oversight and support for our Navy and Marine Corps as they work to meet this increasing demand for global missions. I want to thank Senator Wicker and Senator Hirono for their leadership over the past four years. I hope this Subcommittee will continue to work in a bipartisan manner. Earlier this month, the Subcommittee received a classified threat assessment and learned how our Navy and Marine Corps plan to operate in the face of these ever-growing, new threats. As we begin consideration of the budget request, this briefing was very helpful in providing context for our next series of budget-focused hearings on shipbuilding, naval aviation, and Marine Corps ground systems. Thank you again, Admiral Merz and General Berger, for your participation in that and for the private briefings that you guys have given us. In 2016, the Navy increased its minimum requirement to 355 battle force ships, a reflection of the strategic shift to great power competition. Today, the Navy stands at just 289 battle force ships. While I understand the Navy is reassessing the fleet size requirement, I believe the need for a larger, more capable fleet is clear. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about the Navy and Marine Corps’ plans to achieve these requirements as soon as possible. In addition to a global security crisis, we also have a national debt crisis. Last month, our national debt hit $22 trillion. General Mattis and others have called the debt the greatest threat to our national security, and I agree. It is no secret that Congress’ failure to pass a budget on time hamstrings our military and limits our ability to plan for future missions. While there are many factors beyond the control of this Subcommittee, the Secretary of the Navy’s comments caught my attention in December 2017 when he said, “Continuing Resolutions (CR) have cost the Department of the Navy roughly $4 billion. Since 2011, we have put $4 billion in a trashcan, put lighter fluid on top of it, and burned it.” I wish I had been clever enough to make that quote. That’s pretty good. Budgeting by CRs is no way to run the government and Congress must do better. In this regard, I would like to hear from our witnesses regarding the budgetary and operational impacts of continuing resolutions and the return of sequestration in fiscal year 2020. Additionally, I would like to review a number of other shipbuilding-related topics, including: · The ongoing Force Structure Assessment and the factors that led the Navy to conduct this Assessment · Greater clarity on the long-term funding plan and challenges related to welding and quality assurance with the Columbia-class submarine program · Aircraft carrier programs, including the Department’s proposal to inactive the USS Harry S. Truman more than two decades early, as well as testing challenges on the lead ship in the Ford-class, USS Gerald R. Ford · The Navy’s plan to recapitalize the nation’s strategic sealift fleet · Options to improve acquisition performance on lead ship This subcommittee will continue to work with the Navy and Marine Corps to build a larger, more capable fleet, while at the same time demanding the best use of every taxpayer dollar. I look forward to our witnesses’ testimony. I now recognize Senator Hirono, and thank her for her steadfast commitment to this Subcommittee over the last four years. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.26.2019	03.26.19 Senator David Perdue Calls On Colleagues To Support Disaster Relief Package “Every night, farmers in Georgia get on their knees and pray that help will soon come.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, spoke on the Senate floor to urge support for his bipartisan disaster relief package. Today, the Senate voted 90-10 to begin debate on the bipartisan disaster relief package he introduced with Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and other senators. Senators Perdue and Isakson have been fighting for disaster relief funding since Hurricane Michael devastated Georgia and other states last October. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Unprecedented Devastation: “Our farmers are resilient. They’ve weathered droughts, low-yield harvests, and poor farm economies. They’ve suffered through several years of low commodity prices as well. But they’ve never faced anything like this before. The strength and magnitude of Hurricane Michael was unprecedented.” Unacceptable Delays: “This aid should have been funded as soon as we had an estimate of the damage just a few weeks after the hurricane hit. Instead, disaster aid got caught up in a partisan spending battle, and in typical Washington fashion, Congress kicked the can down the road.” Farmers Praying For Relief: “Every night, farmers in my state get on their knees and pray that help will soon come. They pray their lenders will show compassion. They pray they won't go bankrupt. They pray they will be able to provide for their families. And, yes, they are praying for other people around the country who have been devastated just like they have.” Washington’s Intransigence: “It’s unacceptable that Washington’s intransigence continues to threaten the livelihoods of the very people who sent us here to represent them.” President Backs Puerto Rico Assistance: “The Trump Administration has been resolute in their support of the people of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria and Hurricane Irma hit the island. To date, $40 billion has already been allocated... This disaster relief bill includes $600 million in additional nutritional assistance for the most vulnerable families in Puerto Rico.” Democrats Previously Supported: “Some members of this body argue we should allocate more funding for Puerto Rico. I would remind them this is the same level of funding they have previously supported.” Put Political Interests Aside: “Every day we continue debating this issue is a day the people across the country face crippling uncertainty. Today, I call on each of us to put our individual political interests aside and do the right thing for these people who are depending on us right now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.26.2019	03.26.19 Senator David Perdue: Green New Deal Is Nothing More Than A Socialist Wish List WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on the Green New Deal: “Our national debt topped $22 trillion last month, and some in Washington still refuse to accept the fact that we are in a full-blown crisis. The Green New Deal is nothing more than a Socialist wish list that could cost the American people tens of trillions of dollars and would crush our economy. Not a single Senate Democrat was willing to go on the record today in support of this radical proposal. I never dreamed we’d be debating socialism versus capitalism in America during my lifetime, but Washington has reached a new low. Instead of wasting time on outrageous ‘spend-now, spend-later, spend-often’ policies, we have to get serious about tackling the debt crisis before it’s too late.” In February, Senator Perdue addressed the expensive, radical Green New Deal on Fox Business Mornings with Maria. Watch here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.22.2019	03.22.19 Senator David Perdue Applauds Trump Administration’s Commitment To Plant Vogtle ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded Secretary of Energy Rick Perry for visiting Plant Vogtle in Waynesboro, Georgia, and reaffirming the Trump Administration’s commitment to completing Vogtle Units 3 & 4. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Governor Brian Kemp also attended. In August, Senator Perdue toured construction on Vogtle Units 3 & 4 and invited Secretary Perry to visit the plant and see the value of the project firsthand. Today, the U.S. Department of Energy finalized a conditional loan guarantee of up to $3.7 billion for the completion of Plant Vogtle. Click here to download photos from Senator Perdue’s visit in August. “Secretary Perry’s visit to Plant Vogtle demonstrates President Trump’s commitment to unleashing America’s full energy potential,” said Senator Perdue. “I’ve seen firsthand the key progress being made on Vogtle 3 & 4. Once completed, Plant Vogtle will be home to the first new nuclear units built in the United States in more than 30 years. This project will help bring our nuclear capabilities into the 21st century and make Georgia a leader in our country’s long-term energy independence. Thanks to the Trump Administration and everyone at Georgia Power and Plant Vogtle for your commitment to keeping this critical project on track.” “The Vogtle project is critically important to supporting the Administration’s direction to revitalize and expand the U.S. nuclear industry,” said Secretary Perry. “A strong nuclear industry supports a reliable and resilient grid, and strengthens our energy and national security. As I’ve witnessed firsthand today, Vogtle is also an energy infrastructure project with a massive scope employing thousands of workers. This project is rebuilding a highly skilled U.S. nuclear workforce and supply chain for the future.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.21.2019	03.21.19 Perdue, Kemp, Collins Join Vice President Pence At Atlanta ICE Briefing ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Governor Brian Kemp (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Doug Collins (R-GA-09) today joined Vice President Mike Pence at Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Atlanta Field Office to receive a briefing about the work of local ICE agents and the broader mission of border security. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “It was an honor to have Vice President Pence in Georgia today to hear directly from the brave men and women who wear the ICE uniform,” said Senator Perdue. “ICE is a critical component of our country’s national security strategy. Our ICE law enforcement officers dedicate their lives to combating human trafficking, protecting communities, and keeping drugs off the street. President Trump and Vice President Pence have taken action to make sure ICE officers have the resources they need to keep Georgians and Americans safe. To all of our law enforcement officers – we’ve got your backs.” “I’m here on behalf of the President of the United States to say to the men and women of Immigration and Customs Enforcement here in Atlanta, Georgia: We are grateful for you, we are standing with you, and we will keep standing with you as you enforce our laws and keep our communities safe,” said Vice President Pence. “It was an honor to welcome Vice President Pence to Georgia with Senator Perdue and Congressman Collins to talk about how we keep Georgia families – and all Americans – safe,” said Governor Kemp. “President Trump and Vice President Pence’s commitment to securing our border and protecting our citizens remains unwavering, and I want to thank the vice president for traveling to Georgia to hear from the hardworking men and women serving in federal law enforcement. I look forward to continue working alongside this administration to strengthen our national security at home and abroad,” said Representative Collins. ###
03.21.2019	03.21.19 Senator David Perdue Honored By National Guard Youth Challenge Program Recognized For Support Of Program For At-Risk Youth ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) received the 2019 Challenge Champion Award for his support of the Georgia National Guard Youth Challenge Program. The National Guard Youth Challenge Program was formed in 1993 to counter the high school dropout crisis. The nationwide program provides free alternative education and structured discipline programs for at-risk youth between the ages of 16 and 18. Through the program, cadets have the opportunity to earn a GED or high school diploma. Click here or on the image below to download a photo. L-R: Sunny Park, Vice Chairman of the Georgia National Guard Youth Challenge Foundation; Senator David Perdue; Tina Coria, Chairman of the Georgia National Guard Youth Challenge Foundation “Georgia is home to one of the largest National Guard Youth Challenge programs in the country,” said Senator Perdue. “First started by Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA), this program has helped thousands of at-risk youth turn their lives around. As a result, these teens have learned how to better handle challenges, serve their communities, and be productive citizens. Everyone deserves a second chance and a shot at a successful future. The Youth Challenge program is doing great work in Georgia and across the country to help young people discover their full potential and set them on a path to success.” “Senator Perdue is a strong advocate for Georgia’s youth. We’re grateful for his support of the National Guard Youth Challenge Program, which helps shape at-risk youth into productive citizens and prepare them for better futures,” said Tina Coria, Chairman of the Georgia National Guard Youth Challenge Foundation. “We are particularly appreciative of Senator Perdue’s role in passing a Senate Resolution underscoring the importance of the Youth Challenge and recognizing its 25th anniversary. Senator Perdue continues to provide strong bipartisan leadership that benefits our premiere military youth programs, and we are proud to present him with the 2019 Challenge Champion Award. We will continue working with Senator Perdue to make a difference in the lives of Georgia’s youth and look forward to our next goal of workforce development.” Today, there are 40 Youth Challenge academies across 28 states. More than 165,000 cadets have graduated from the program, and over 110,000 academic credentials have been awarded. Georgia’s Youth Challenge academies, located at Fort Stewart, Fort Gordon, and Milledgeville, have graduated more than 17,000 cadets representing all 159 counties in Georgia. In May 2018, the Senate passed Senator Perdue and Senator Tammy Baldwin’s (D-WI) bipartisan resolution honoring the 25th anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge Program. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.20.2019	03.20.19 Senator David Perdue Works To Combat Human Trafficking Receives Briefing At GBI, Meets With Law Enforcement ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today visited the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) headquarters to receive a briefing from law enforcement on efforts to combat human trafficking. Senator Perdue also toured the Child Exploitation and Computer Crimes Unit lab and visited a partnership between Wellspring Living and Crim High School. The Senator was joined by Attorney General Chris Carr, GBI Director Vic Reynolds, GBI Special Agent Debbie Garner, U.S. Attorney BJay Pak, DeKalb County District Attorney Sherry Boston, and Cobb County Deputy Chief Assistant District Attorney Chuck Boring. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “Human trafficking is nothing short of modern-day slavery,” said Senator Perdue. “It endangers our communities and our children. Ending this epidemic requires an all-hands-on-deck approach with partnerships between law enforcement, community leaders, and faith-based organizations. At the state and federal level, we’ve taken action to better assist victims in their recovery and increase penalties on those who commit these heinous crimes. As we heard today, much more needs to be done. Governor Brian Kemp and First Lady Marty Kemp have already made this a top priority in their administration. Time and again, Georgia has demonstrated that by working together, we can create positive change, and I have no doubt that we will be able to do that here.” “It is truly heartbreaking to know that Georgia has one of the highest rates of human trafficking in the nation,” said First Lady Marty Kemp, Co-Chair of the GRACE Commission. “I am proud to partner with Georgia’s federal, state, and local leaders through the GRACE Commission to crack down on human trafficking, seek justice for victims, hold bad actors accountable, and end human trafficking once and for all.” “Domestic minor sex trafficking is an ‘all-in issue,’” said Attorney General Chris Carr. “We are grateful to work side-by-side with the many federal, state, and local partners who are dedicated to combatting this illegal activity. Together, we will protect our children and end human trafficking in Georgia.” “Local, state, and federal partnerships are critical to address the issue of domestic minor sex trafficking in our communities,” said GBI Director Vic Reynolds. “Today’s meeting with Senator Perdue and other Georgian stakeholders illustrates that protecting our children from predators remains a high priority. The GBI is fully committed to leveraging all available resources to end this issue in our state.” In the United States Senate, Senator Perdue has been a strong voice for ending human trafficking and increasing penalties for those convicted of such offenses. He supported multiple pieces of human trafficking legislation that became law, including the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act, Justice For Victims of Trafficking Act, Ending Modern Slavery Initiative Act, and Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act. On February 26, 2019, First Lady Marty Kemp announced the creation of the Georgians for Refuge, Action, Compassion, and Education (GRACE) Commission to combat the threat of human trafficking in the State of Georgia. The GRACE Commission is comprised of public officials, law enforcement, for-profit and non-profit organizations, faith-based institutions, and subject matter experts to tackle human trafficking, seek justice for victims, hold bad actors accountable, and end human trafficking. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.15.2019	03.15.19 Senator David Perdue Receives 2019 Inspirational Leader Award Recognized For Work To Protect Purple Heart & Enhance Veteran Medical Care WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, received the Military Order of the Purple Heart’s (MOPH) 2019 Inspirational Leader award for his work to protect the Purple Heart medal and enhance medical care for veterans. Senator Perdue’s No Hero Left Untreated Act became law in December 2018. The Inspirational Leader award is given to one Member of Congress per year in recognition of outstanding leadership and legislative achievement. Click here to download a photo. “The women and men who have worn the uniform represent the very best of our nation. As Americans, we have a responsibility to uphold the commitments we made to our veterans, and it’s a job I take very seriously,” said Senator Perdue. “The Military Order of the Purple Heart has been a strong partner in our efforts to stop second-hand parties from selling our veterans’ treasured medals, and I appreciate their support for our bipartisan bill to increase access to innovative therapy options for veterans. I will continue to do all I can to honor the many sacrifices our servicemembers have made and ensure veterans receive the care they deserve.” “Since he first came to Washington, Senator Perdue has been a steadfast champion for our military, veterans, and their families,” said Doug Greenlaw, National Commander of Military Order of the Purple Heart. “On the Senate Armed Services Committee, he makes sure servicemembers have the tools they need to complete their missions, and his No Hero Left Untreated Act will give veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress and TBI access to the cutting edge therapies they deserve. Importantly, his bill, the Purple Heart Preservation Act, would finally protect the Purple Heart Medal from being sold by non-recipients as a common collectible. Senator Perdue is deeply deserving of the 2019 MOPH Inspirational Leadership Award, and we are honored to present it to him.” In 2017, Senator Perdue led a bipartisan group of senators in introducing the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act, which places penalties on the sale of any Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces. Senator Perdue’s No Hero Left Untreated Act enhances medical care for America’s heroes by establishing a pilot program at two VA medical centers and enrolling up to 50 veterans in Magnetic EEG/ECG-Guided Resonance Therapy (MeRT) for a one-year period. This is an individualized non-pharmaceutical, non-invasive procedure that applies magnetic stimulation to help facilitate restoration of proper brain function in those who have suffered neurological injuries. The bill became law on December 21, 2018. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.15.2019	03.15.19 Senator David Perdue: Social Security & Medicare Have To Be Saved Highlights Trump Administration’s Efforts To Address Mandatory Spending, Debt Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, calls out the $22 trillion debt crisis and asks his Senate colleagues to get serious about saving the Social Security and Medicare trust funds, which are projected to soon become insolvent. The Senator also discussed President Trump’s FY20 budget proposal with Russ Vought, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Click here to watch. On the Economy & Debt Crisis Senator Perdue: “Let’s just talk about the reality here, instead of the emotion… We know what doesn’t work, because we had eight years of the lowest economic output in U.S. history before 2016. We added more debt as a government than all prior presidents before. We doubled the debt in eight years. Now, we want to hide behind the fact that the tax bill made our corporations more competitive with the rest of the world, and we created more than 5 million jobs over the last two years.” Acting OMB Director Vought: “Contrary to fearful predictions before passage of historic tax reform, revenues are increasing and are in line with 50-year historic averages. The problem is not that Americans are taxed too little, it is that Washington spends too much.” On Social Security & Medicare Senator Perdue: “Right now, Social Security is bankrupt…Medicare goes to zero in eight short years. These programs have to be saved…Both sides have solutions, and there are compromises that could get done. We know the problem over the next 20 years is all in mandatory spending. At that point, I’d like to see people on both sides of the aisle explain to their constituents why the federal government can’t pay out the benefits they’ve been promising them for the last 100 years.” Acting OMB Director Vought: “This budget proposes more mandatory spending savings than any president’s proposed budget in U.S. history, other than the first two budgets of President Trump’s administration… President Trump’s Medicare reforms push out the expiration date of the Medicare trust fund by eight years.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.14.2019	03.14.19 Senator David Perdue Talks National Emergency, Disaster Relief On Georgia Radio WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), joined several Georgia radio stations to discuss President Trump’s national emergency declaration, disaster relief for Georgia farmers, and President Trump’s recommendation of full funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in FY2020. Highlights: Explosion in Illegal Drug Trafficking: “I used to live in Texas, and I’m very familiar with the valley area down there. A few weeks ago, I went down to the border. I actually went out on patrol with our border patrol agents in the McAllen district which spans about 250 miles in South Texas. What I saw there stunned me. I was prepared to see illegal immigration traffic but what I wasn’t prepared for was this explosion in drug traffic across that border.” Five-Alarm Crisis: “Fentanyl is up 73% from last year. It endangers our communities and our kids. This is a five-alarm crisis in my view, and the President is well within his rights to stand up and protect America.” Message to Georgia Farmers: “My message to the farmers of Georgia is don’t lose heart. The President has got their back. He is doing everything he can to get through this obstructionism here on one side in the Senate and the House. We’re not going to give up until we get that aid for our farmers.” Full Capability Funding For Savannah Harbor: “The Savannah Port is the third-largest and fastest growing port in the country. It’s the only port in the country that exports more than it imports, and it has the best economic return of any Army Corps of Engineers port project in the country. I used to be on the Georgia Ports Authority, and I know intimately what SHEP will do for Georgia. President Trump’s recommendation of full funding for this year is a huge step toward getting this project finished. The President is living up to his word and building infrastructure that really makes a difference.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.14.2019	03.14.19 Senator David Perdue Supports President Trump’s National Emergency Declaration “There is a five-alarm crisis at the southern border. I’ve seen it firsthand.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) supports President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the U.S.-Mexico border: “There is a five-alarm crisis at the southern border. I’ve seen it firsthand. This is not just about illegal immigration or building the wall. It’s about the explosion in illegal drug trafficking. We also need to close loopholes and get border patrol agents the resources they desperately need. President Trump knows that, and he’s right to take action to protect the American people. It is criminal that Congress has made this a political issue when both parties should be working together to keep Americans safe.” Background: President Barack Obama recognized the drug crisis at the southern border and declared a national emergency in 2011 to deal with the threat of criminal cartels in the United States. Additionally, the four previous U.S. presidents oversaw the construction of a combined 654 miles of physical barrier along the U.S.-Mexico border. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.13.2019	03.13.19 Georgia Leaders Applaud SHEP Funding In President Trump’s Budget Proposal SAVANNAH, GA – Georgia elected officials and industry leaders are applauding President Trump’s recommendation of full capability funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in fiscal year 2020. Yesterday, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), announced the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ recommendation of $130.28 million in federal funds to keep SHEP on track for completion in 2022. This is the third year in a row this critical infrastructure project will receive full federal funding from the Trump administration, pending Congressional passage of the annual appropriations bill. Georgia Governor Brian Kemp: “Thanks to the hard work of Senator Isakson, Senator Perdue, and Congressman Buddy Carter, the expansion of the Savannah Port is fully-funded and on schedule. With record-breaking exports and trade, Georgia and the Savannah Port are true economic engines of the southeast. I thank President Trump for his continued commitment to the people of Georgia, and I look forward to completion of this project.” Georgia Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan: “The Port of Savannah is critical to the continued economic success of our state, region, and nation. Full funding for SHEP will allow Georgia to realize the project’s tremendous benefits without delay. Make no mistake, this exciting announcement is a testament to the commitment, dedication, and hard work of Georgia’s Senators, Congressmen, and Ports Authority leaders.” Savannah Mayor Eddie W. DeLoach: “I would like to thank Senators Perdue and Isakson and Congressman Carter for their hard work to make sure the Savannah Harbor Deepening Project has been fully funded. This project will allow the Georgia Ports Authority to continue to be a major driving force in our local economy. We know it will lead to many years of continued economic growth and countless new jobs for Savannah and the Coastal Empire.” Georgia Ports Authority Chairman: “It is extremely gratifying to see the unwavering support of the president toward completing this critical national infrastructure project. Funding at this level, which represents full capability for the coming year, ensures that the project remains on schedule and that the United States will soon benefit from the substantial return on investment that the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project represents.” – Jimmy Allgood, Chairman of the Board, Georgia Ports Authority Georgia Ports Authority Executive Director: “We are profoundly grateful for the extensive efforts of Senators Perdue and Isakson, Congressman Carter, the entire Georgia congressional delegation and Governor Brian Kemp to see this project through. The collective effort of Georgia has made our ports global leaders in trade and job creation, not only for our state but for the nation as a whole.” – Griff Lynch, Executive Director, Georgia Ports Authority Georgia Department of Economic Development: “The Port of Savannah is one of our state’s greatest economic development assets. Georgia’s large and small businesses benefit immensely from the connectivity that our ports provide. The Port of Savannah serves as a gateway to the world by facilitating trade and keeping commerce moving.” – Pat Wilson, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Economic Development Savannah Economic Development Authority: “The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' recommendation of $130 million in the 2020 budget for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is fantastic news for Savannah, our region, the state of Georgia and the Southeast. The deepening of the Savannah Harbor is critical to our continued economic growth and we would be remiss if we did not thank Governor Brian Kemp, U.S. Representative Buddy Carter and U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue as well as the Georgia Ports Authority staff and former Governor Nathan Deal for their tireless efforts to see this project come to fruition and for the latest efforts to keep SHEP on track to be completed.” – Trip Tollison, President & CEO, Savannah Economic Development Authority Georgia Municipal Association: “We’re pleased that the funding for the Savannah Port expansion is going to be included in the 2020 budget. Infrastructure funding is a critical need, and this project in particular is important to all Georgia’s cities as it will allow for continued economic growth in our state. GMA supported the expansion project when it was first proposed and we’re glad to see the federal government continuing to support it financially as well.” – Larry Hanson, Executive Director, Georgia Municipal Association Association County Commissioners of Georgia: “People in every Georgia county and in places across much of the United States benefit from the economic activity transacted through the port at Savannah. Securing funding in the FY 2020 budget to continue the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is not only wise, but is a phenomenal investment in the future of Georgia and the United States.” – Dave Wills, Executive Director, Association County Commissioners of Georgia. ###
03.12.2019	03.12.19 Perdue, Isakson, Carter Push Savannah As Home To New Air National Guard Squadron WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) are urging the Pentagon to consider Savannah as home to a new Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron (AES) within the Air National Guard. The Air Force is currently considering locations to establish an additional AES in order to meet recommendations by the National Commission on the Structure of the Air Force. In a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson, Perdue, Isakson, and Carter encouraged the Air Force to select the 165th Airlift Wing at Savannah Hilton Head Air National Guard Station for the new AES. “As the Air Force continues with its strategic basing process to establish a new Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron within the Air National Guard, we respectfully request your careful consideration of the 165th Airlift Wing at Savannah Hilton Head Air National Guard Station as a top candidate to fulfill basing criteria,” the letter reads. In the letter, Perdue, Isakson, and Carter highlighted the 165th Airlift Wing’s existing capacity and infrastructure to host the mission, ability to recruit from over 10 accredited nursing schools in the area, and existing partnership with the 156th AES, based out of Charlotte, North Carolina. “The September 18, 2018, approval of the enterprise definition and criteria emphasizes the operational, manpower, and capacity requirements of the Aeromedical Evacuation mission. The 165th Airlift Wing is uniquely qualified to excel in all of these areas, but has particularly proven itself in regards to mission capability with an AES,” the letter continues. The Air Force Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron provides time-sensitive, mission-critical care to patients en route to medical treatment facilities. This new mission would require 106 new personnel, including 41 officers and 65 enlisted. View the letter here. ###
03.12.2019	03.12.19 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Secure Full Funding for Savannah Harbor Deepening President Trump’s budget keeps Savannah Harbor Expansion Project on track in 2020 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), have secured full capability funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track in fiscal year 2020. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its proposed budget for fiscal year 2020, recommending more than $130 million in federal funds for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. This is the third year in a row SHEP will receive full federal funding from the Trump administration pending Congressional passage of the annual appropriations bill. “Today’s news is real cause for celebration. I’ve been fighting for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project for 20 years, and with this announcement, the finish line is finally in sight. I thank President Trump, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James, Acting Office of Management and Budget Director Russ Vought and everyone in the administration who is working with us to ensure that this critical port receives the funding it needs to keep our economy growing,” said Senator Isakson. “Our continuous efforts are paying off, and we all look forward to seeing this project through to completion.” “President Trump has broken through the bureaucracy and recommended full funding for SHEP for the third year in a row,” said Senator Perdue. “After 20 years of attempts to deepen the port five feet to accommodate the larger Post Panamax ships, the Trump administration has the project on track for completion in 2022. The Port of Savannah is the third largest and fastest growing port in the United States. SHEP has the best benefit to cost ratio of all port projects across the country at 7.3 to 1, and ensuring the project’s on-time completion is key to increasing our exports and continuing to grow our economy. There is no doubt SHEP is Georgia’s top infrastructure project and will help our country compete globally.” “This is great news for our area, our state and the entire nation,” said Congressman Carter. “I want to thank President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney and Acting Director Vought and Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James for the highest budget request for SHEP to date. This again proves their understanding of the critical importance of this project for America and the need to keep it on time and on track. We have fought tirelessly for this federal support and we will continue this work until it becomes a reality. With a benefit to cost ratio of 7.3 to 1, there is no time to waste.” “It is extremely gratifying to see the unwavering support of the president toward completing this critical national infrastructure project,” said Jimmy Allgood, Georgia Ports Authority board chairman. “Funding at this level, which represents full capability for the coming year, ensures that the project remains on schedule and that the United States will soon benefit from the substantial return on investment that the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project represents.” “We are profoundly grateful for the extensive efforts of Senators Perdue and Isakson, Congressman Carter, the entire Georgia congressional delegation and Governor Brian Kemp to see this project through,” said Griff Lynch, Georgia Ports Authority executive director. “The collective effort of Georgia has made our ports global leaders in trade and job creation, not only for our state but for the nation as a whole.” In advance of the administration’s fiscal year 2020 budget planning, letters were sent by Isakson and Perdue and by Carter and the Georgia U.S. House delegation to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney pointing to the project’s approaching final stages and requesting $130.28 million to keep the project on track in the president’s fiscal year 2020 budget. Isakson, Perdue and Carter met with Assistant Secretary James to discuss the fiscal year 2020 budget request on Feb. 14 in Isakson’s Washington office. Today’s funding level will allow the project to remain on track for completion once Congress passes appropriations legislation for the Army Corps of Engineers. Background: · In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for SHEP in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. · In June 2018, Isakson, Perdue and Carter secured full federal funding for SHEP for the first time at the federal level. · Last year, the Savannah Morning News editorial board praised Isakson, Perdue and Carter for their roles in achieving full federal funding for the first time. · In November 2018, Isakson, Perdue, and Carter secured additional federal funding to keep SHEP on track in 2019. ###
03.11.2019	03.11.19 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s Budget Request WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on President Trump’s budget request for fiscal year 2020, which cuts spending by $2.7 trillion over ten years and is projected to balance within 15 years: “The debt crisis is the single greatest threat to our national security. President Trump understands this, which is why his administration is working to cut spending, grow the economy, and restructure the Pentagon’s budget to effectively rebuild our military. In his budget proposal, the President continues to prioritize critical infrastructure projects that have a high return on investment, including full capability funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track. “Now that we’ve received the President’s budget, Congress must work quickly to fund the federal government on time so we don’t wind up in another last-minute spending battle. If we don’t get serious about fixing Washington’s broken funding process and solving this debt crisis, our country will lose the ability to do the right thing.” ###
03.04.2019	03.04.19 Senators Isakson, Perdue Statements On Severe Storms In Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statements after severe weather and destructive tornadoes hit Central and Southwest Georgia: “Again our prayers are with the Georgians whose homes and livelihoods were damaged and with our neighbors in Alabama who suffered loss of life during yesterday’s severe weather,” said Senator Isakson. “I thank our first responders for the immediate and ongoing response, as well as our hospital staff, utilities services and the many organizations and neighbors who reached out to aid those in need. Our staff is on the ground, and we will continue to work with Governor Kemp and others with anything they need as recovery and restoration continues.” “Our thoughts are with all Georgians impacted by these severe storms, and our hearts go out to the families of those who tragically lost their lives in Alabama,” said Senator Perdue. “Governor Kemp was on the ground almost immediately to tour damage in affected areas. Right now, first responders and emergency management teams are working tirelessly to clear debris, reopen roads, and restore power. My team will continue to stay in touch with the Governor’s office, and we stand ready to help Georgians in need however we can.” Governor Brian Kemp today issued an emergency declaration for three Georgia counties: Grady, Harris, and Talbot. The emergency declaration is effective for five days and makes all state resources available to assist local governments with response and recovery efforts. Helpful Information: View up-to-date emergency declarations from Governor Kemp here. Call your local non-emergency police line to report a downed tree in a main road. Call 911 immediately to report downed power lines. Do not attempt to handle them. Report power outages by contacting your power provider. The two main providers in Georgia are: Georgia Power (contact here or at 888-891-0938) Georgia electric membership cooperatives (EMCs) (find your local branch here) Take photographs of damaged property to assist with filing insurance claims. Georgia Red Cross has opened a shelter in Talbot County for anyone who needs a safe place to stay. Click here for more information. For issues with federal agencies, call Senator Isakson’s office at 770-661-0999 or Senator Perdue’s office at 404-865-0087. ###
03.04.2019	03.04.19 Georgia Leaders, Farmers Urge Congress To Pass Disaster Relief Package ATLANTA, GA – Georgia leaders, farmers, and other elected officials are urging Congress to quickly pass the bipartisan disaster relief package introduced last week by U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). President Trump, working with a bipartisan group of senators, has confirmed his support for disaster relief and encouraged Congress to pass legislation with funding for Georgia and other states that are recovering from recent hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. Georgia Governor Brian Kemp: “I thank Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue for their tireless work to secure aid for thousands of hardworking Georgians in dire need. Their leadership will provide farm families vital assistance as they work to rebuild and revive heavily impacted areas of our state. President Trump and Vice President Pence saw firsthand the generational damage Georgians and our neighbors endured at the hands of Hurricane Michael, and we are very grateful that they stood with us every step of the way. Now, it is time for Congress to act quickly, end the delays and gridlock, and fulfill their responsibility to the people of Georgia.” Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary W. Black: “For at least the 116th time, I call on all Members of the 116th Congress to abandon partisan gamesmanship, embrace American statesmanship and look deep into the eyes of the farm families and rural communities affected by Hurricane Michael. I applaud our Georgia Congressional Delegation for their tireless efforts to advance a disaster package and the administration for their continued commitment to recovery for our communities. It is now time for the politics to be put aside so we can finish the drill of addressing disaster relief for our citizens.” Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long: “Last October, Hurricane Michael swept across our state at what could not have been a worse time for Georgia farmers. Many were days or weeks from harvest when the storm hit, and nearly all was lost in a matter of hours. Georgia Farm Bureau has been working for months with industry partners and our congressional delegation to secure federal assistance to help our farmer-members and rural Georgia recover from the storm. We applaud Senators David Perdue and Johnny Isakson for their efforts to keep this important conversation going by introducing and working to advance a disaster aid package. We’re also encouraged by President Trump’s continued commitment to help Georgia rebuild all that Hurricane Michael destroyed. It is long past time for Congress to act, though, as many farmers are having trouble securing operating loans for the 2019 crop year—pushing them closer and closer to the point of no return.” Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr: “Thank you Senators Perdue and Isakson – and our entire congressional delegation – for standing up for Georgians devastated by natural disasters! Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry, and we must do all we can to help our friends and neighbors get back on their feet.” Brent Brinkley, President, Georgia Pecan Growers Association: “Hurricane Michael leveled a path of destruction all across Georgia from the Southwest corner to North Carolina. Michael destroyed generational investments in timber and pecans as it worked its way directly across the pecan belt of Georgia. Myself and many of my grower friends are still cleaning and burning pecan trees that were planted by our fathers and grandfathers. It’s truly heartbreaking and will take more than a generation to recover. On behalf of Georgia Pecan Growers, Farmers and Foresters, I want to thank Senators Perdue and Isakson for continuing to push this much-overdue disaster relief bill. American farmers are proud and the last to look for welfare or a handout. However, this disaster is unprecedented and urgent federal assistance will mean the difference between a future in Agriculture or the end of generational farming.” Rep. Jenniffer Gonzalez-Colon (R-PR): “I commend the leadership of Senator Perdue as well as the unwavering commitment of Senators Rubio and Scott on behalf of vulnerable families in Puerto Rico. Their action to include an extension of $600 million for Puerto Rico’s nutritional assistance program demonstrates once again the unequivocal sense of responsibility that the Senate majority has to provide for the well-being of American citizens on the Island. Extending this program has been a top priority for me, as it will have a direct impact to close to 279,000 beneficiaries or 125,000 families. Senator Perdue’s bill puts my constituents one step closer to receiving the assistance they need to continue the long path towards recovery and I look forward to its swift passage.” ###
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Senator David Perdue Joins America’s Newsroom Live From CPAC WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Sandra Smith and Bill Hemmer on Fox News’ America’s Newsroom to discuss the debt crisis and President Trump’s summit with North Korea. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Growing Debt Crisis: “Just two weeks ago, our national debt ticked over to $22 trillion. Over the next 30 years alone, we have $130 trillion of unfunded liabilities of this federal government. That is $1 million per household.” Economic Revival: “President Trump came in two years ago and said we’ve got to grow the economy. There were two benefits to that. You put people back to work, but you get federal revenue from growth that helps offset this growing debt. We have started an economic revival here that we believe over the next ten years lowers the debt curve by about $3 trillion. Yet over the next decade, unless we do something about mandatory spending, we’re going to add another $10 trillion. That can’t happen.” This Is A Process: “I give President Trump and his team a lot of credit for bringing Kim Jung Un to the table. It’s a process. We can’t give up our sanctions, and I support the President in that. We need to see measurable results, we need to put inspectors on the ground, and I believe we will get there.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Senator David Perdue Calls Out Debt Crisis At CPAC “If we don’t do something about the debt, we’ll lose the ability to do the right thing.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) participated in a panel discussion at CPAC on tackling the $22 trillion debt crisis and promoting conservative values. Click here or on the image below to watch the full panel discussion. Highlights: National Security Threat: “There are a number of military experts who have said for years that this growing debt is the greatest threat to national security. It’s also a great threat to our social institutions. We can’t do the right things for our people anymore because of the size of debt.” $1 Million Per Household: “The debt crisis has been building over the last 15 and 20 years. We have $130 trillion unfunded liabilities coming at us in Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, pensions for federal employees, and interest on the debt in the next 30 years. That amounts to $1 million for every household in America.” Tackle Health Care Costs: “As conservatives, we have to finally start the debate about health care costs – not just health insurance. That’s what the distraction of Obamacare was. We need to talk about the drivers of health care costs, which are causing Medicare to go up.” Do The Right Thing: “If we don’t deal with our debt, it will affect our ability to do the things we do today – pave roads, educate our children, manage health care. These are things we take for granted in the United States, but when you have a $22 trillion national debt, you lose the ability to the right thing.” Greater Accountability: “We have to hold elected officials accountable. I’m an outsider in the belly of the beast here. I believe in term limits. I believe that you and I can have an impact on this town, but we have to maintain accountability of the people we put in office.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Senator David Perdue Talks North Korea Summit & $22 Trillion Debt Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Mornings with Maria to discuss President Trump’s summit with North Korea, the $22 trillion debt crisis, and Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell’s appearance before the Senate Banking Committee. Click here to watch. Highlights: President Is Acting Like A Statesman: “I think we’ll get some concrete progress out of this summit with North Korea. I’m proud of President Trump. He’s acting like a statesman, and that’s what we need in this conversation.” Need Timetable With North Korea: “We need to see a timetable with quantitative, measurable results from North Korea. Let’s remember where we were a few years ago. Our country was facing a nuclear threat from North Korea, and now we’re handling it diplomatically. I give the President a lot of credit for initiating this dialogue with Chairman Kim.” Sanctions Are Working: “I visited South Korea and the DMZ last year. We saw refugees coming over the border and talked to people personally who were in North Korea. The North Korea sanctions are really working.” Green New Deal Is Silly: “Last year, we only collected $2.2 trillion of federal income tax, and the Democrats want to spend $9 trillion a year to do this ‘Green New Deal.’ This is silly. There’s no way any degree of the ‘Green New Deal’ can actually work because we have a serious debt crisis right now.” Socialist Monetary Policy: “I never thought when I ran for the Senate that we’d be sitting here today in 2019 talking about Socialism in our country. The Left is talking about things like ‘Modern Monetary Theory’ and saying ‘let’s let Congress spend as much money as they want and build up as much debt as they want, and it’ll all be okay because the Fed will take care of it.’” $22 Trillion Debt: “The debt just ticked over $22 trillion two weeks ago. More importantly, we have four central banks in the United States, China, Japan, and Europe with historically high values on their balance sheets. This really concerns me.” No Easy Way Out: “There’s no easy way out of this debt crisis. You can’t cut your way out. You can’t spend your way out. You can’t save enough. We have to get at the basic drivers of the debt crisis, which is mandatory spending.” Economic Opportunity: “This could be the high ground of the Republican Party in 2020, if we show the world what we really believe in. Economic opportunity for everybody really works. Limited government really works. Just look at the economic results we’re getting right now from pulling back on regulations, lowering taxes, freeing up energy, and rolling back Dodd-Frank.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Senator David Perdue Urges Quick Action On Disaster Relief “If we do not help these people right now, they may lose their businesses and livelihoods through no fault of their own.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, spoke on the Senate floor about the importance of quickly passing a disaster relief bill and encouraged Senate colleagues to support the bipartisan disaster relief package he introduced with Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and other senators. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Time Is Of The Essence: “Our farmers simply cannot wait on disaster relief any longer. The situation in my state is dire. Rural communities are suffering. Economic activity is at an absolute standstill in many places because the federal government has yet to do its job. If we do not help these people right now, they may lose their businesses and livelihoods through no fault of their own. That's the reality we're facing here.” Disaster Bill Has Trump’s Support: “Senator Isakson and I, along with several other senators, have introduced a supplemental disaster relief bill. President Trump has agreed to sign it. Our bill includes relief for agriculture and also provides additional funds for Georgia and other states like Florida, Alabama, the Carolinas, Alaska, Hawaii, and California that have battled natural disasters over the last year. It also builds on the Trump administration's past efforts and includes the remaining funding for Puerto Rico.” Win For Farmers: “This bipartisan package is a win for our farmers, it's a win for families and businesses who were devastated by historic hurricanes in the Southeast and wildfires in the West, and it's a win for the people in Puerto Rico who the President has previously helped.” Committed To Disaster Victims: “The President and Vice President have been absolutely resolute in their support of getting aid to the victims of these disasters. They are now asking Congress to pass our disaster relief bill right now.” What’s At Stake: “I sincerely hope this body will move quickly and pass this disaster relief bill without further delay. I humbly ask each of my colleagues in the Senate for your individual support and for your vote on this disaster relief package that will save hundreds, if not thousands, of farming families in my home state from having to give up what they love, and that is farming the land that in many cases they inherited from generations of their families.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.26.2019	02.26.19 Senators Sound Alarm On $22 Trillion Debt Crisis “The single greatest threat to our national security is our national debt.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and Congressman Andy Biggs (R-AZ-05) today introduced resolutions in the Senate and House to recognize America’s national debt as a threat to our national security. Earlier this month, the national debt reached $22 trillion. The Senate resolution is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Joni Ernst (R-IA), and James Lankford (R-OK). “The single greatest threat to our national security is our national debt, and it’s time Washington comes to grips with that reality,” said Senator Perdue. “This month, our national debt topped $22 trillion. This news should have sounded alarms throughout Washington, but bureaucrats and career politicians didn’t even blink an eye. Ultimately, the debt impacts our ability to fund priorities, like providing our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to protect Americans. This debt crisis will only get worse, and if we don’t act now, our country will lose the ability to do the right thing.” “We introduced this resolution because the United States is racing towards a fiscal cliff,” said Congressman Biggs. “Congress is taking few measures to solve this problem, and it is beyond time for our colleagues in both chambers to become serious about balancing the nation’s budget and recognize this issue as a threat to our national security. America has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. While the United States is producing record federal revenue, Congress has failed to pass balanced budgets. If we do not change our course, we will be responsible for one of the worse catastrophes this nation has ever experienced: the crash of the American economy and the demise of a superpower. I thank Senator Perdue and my colleagues for their leadership on this issue.” “This month, our country’s national debt has reached an alarming $22 trillion,” said Senator Moran. “Congress and the administration must come together to address our government’s habit of reckless spending, which represents a grave national security threat. Without a serious plan and subsequent action to reduce our debt, this perpetual fiscal irresponsibility will jeopardize the American dream, threatening our children’s and grandchildren’s futures, as well as our nation’s ability to defend itself against global threats.” “Surpassing $22 trillion in debt should be a wake-up call to Washington, which for decades has failed to balance the federal government’s checkbook,” said Senator Rounds. “In South Dakota, we balance our books each year, and we have a strong economy and low unemployment because of it. High debt threatens economic growth by driving up interest rates and discouraging businesses and individuals from investing back into the economy. We literally cannot afford to wait any longer to take steps to get our debt under control. This includes committing to regular order with regard to our budget process and managing the entire federal budget, including mandatory payments. Delaying action and looking the other way is not an option.” “After decades of neglect from politicians of both parties, the national debt has reached a once unimaginable $22 trillion, directly threatening our nation’s security and prosperity. This should alarm every single Iowan. We need to get serious right now about confronting this impending crisis,” said Senator Ernst. “As I have said before, slow economic growth and our skyrocketing national debt are the biggest long-term national security threats we face; I am glad some of my Senate colleagues are taking these threats seriously,” said Senator Lankford. “We can and should reduce and eventually eliminate our annual deficit spending and begin to work on tackling the national debt. I hope we can continue to work to find common ground to responsibly cut spending and end waste, fraud, and abuse as well as duplicative spending across agencies to help us begin to address our debt and deficit. This long-term issue will take economic growth, spending discipline, and many years to tackle. The sooner we start and the longer we focus our attention on it, the better.” Click here for text of the Senate resolution. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.26.2019	02.26.19 Bipartisan Senators Introduce Major Disaster Relief Package President Trump Drives Effort For Disaster Relief Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Doug Jones (D-AL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rick Scott (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-SC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today introduced a bipartisan disaster relief package with the backing of President Donald J. Trump. President Trump, working with this bipartisan group of senators, has confirmed his support for disaster relief and encouraged Congress to pass legislation with funding for Georgia and other states that are recovering from recent hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. “In October, President Trump and Vice President Pence both saw the devastation of Hurricane Michael firsthand and promised farmers they would have their backs. In pushing for this disaster relief bill, the President is fulfilling that promise,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Now, it is up to Congress to follow through and pass this critical, bipartisan bill. Our farmers and rural communities cannot wait any longer for disaster relief. For some Georgia farmers, the timing of assistance will determine whether they put a crop in the ground ever again.” “I’ve spoken personally with President Trump and Vice President Pence, with Senate leaders, with Governor Kemp and with Georgia farmers about our desperately needed disaster aid legislation and how to get it moving as soon as possible,” said Senator Isakson. “This legislation will provide critical funds to our farmers and producers who suffered significant agricultural losses in Georgia last year during Hurricane Michael. We are now close to planting season, and time is of the essence for the lives and livelihoods in the industry. We cannot overstate the importance of quickly passing this legislation to restore our agriculture community in Georgia.” “In Alabama, we’ve seen our fair share of hurricanes, tornadoes and other severe weather over the years, but that doesn’t mean it gets any easier to either experience a disaster or to rebuild after one,” said Senator Jones. “Therefore, I’m proud to join Senator Perdue to introduce this bill and help folks get back on their feet by providing $13.6 billion in additional disaster relief funds. This bipartisan legislation will help Alabama farmers who were hard hit by Hurricane Michael.” “While Senate Republicans voted overwhelmingly to help Florida communities devastated by Hurricane Michael earlier this year, Congress has repeatedly played politics with disaster funding at the expense of local communities still struggling to recover,” said Senator Rubio. “Each day that Congress fails to act, state and local governments become increasingly at risk of running out of the necessary resources needed to address critical issues and fully recover from recent disasters. Our communities should not have to suffer the consequences of Congress’s inaction any longer. It is time to act.” “As Governor of Florida, I saw firsthand the destruction left behind by multiple devastating hurricanes,” said Senator Rick Scott. “Following these storms, we worked nonstop to help our communities recover – but there is still a lot to do, especially when it comes to rebuilding Tyndall Air Force Base. Disaster funding should not be a political fight and needs to be brought to the floor of the Senate as quickly as possible. I will never stop fighting for disaster funding to help Tyndall return to its full operation and make sure Florida families and businesses have the resources they need to get back to their normal lives. I’m glad this bill also includes the funding to help our friends in Puerto Rico continue to rebuild following Hurricane Maria.” “It’s well past time for Congress to move forward with this much needed disaster funding,” said Senator Tim Scott. “Thanks to my colleague Senator Perdue for leading the charge, and I hope we see a vote in the immediate future.” “Alaskans are a tough, resilient, and caring people. Within hours of the last November’s earthquake, the Trump Administration was eager to do what they could to help in the aftermath,” said Senator Sullivan. “In addition to the response of our local Emergency Response personnel, Alaska Department of Transportation and countless others were out inspecting and repairing infrastructure within hours – that rebuilding continues today. This bipartisan relief package provides for states like Alaska that seek to further that rebuilding process in the aftermath of a major natural disaster.” “As North Carolina continues to recover from Hurricane Florence, this bipartisan legislation is a positive step to ensure our great state receives the resources it needs to help communities affected by the storm,” said Senator Tillis. “Immediately following the destruction, I worked with Senator Burr and the entire North Carolina delegation to secure an initial down payment of recovery funding on behalf of North Carolinians, but much more still needs to be done. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and ensure our families, businesses and farmers have the opportunity to rebuild from the devastation left by Hurricane Florence.” This bipartisan funding package includes: · Approximately $13.6 billion in overall relief efforts to all those affected. · Critical agriculture disaster relief for farmers recovering in the wake of Hurricane Michael and other natural disasters across the country. · Development grants for small, rural communities impacted by natural disasters in 2018. · Assistance for veterans’ health facilities, and military construction projects devastated by Hurricane Michael. · Emergency funds for critical timber, watershed, and wastewater infrastructure needs. · Restoration of highways, aviation facilities, and other transit projects damaged by natural disasters. · Additional $600 million in nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico in response to President Trump’s disaster declaration. Click here for text of the bipartisan disaster relief package. ###
02.25.2019	02.25.19 Senator David Perdue Announces New Subcommittee Chairmanships Perdue Named Chairman of Seapower & Housing Subcommittees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) announces new subcommittee chairmanships for the 116th Congress: On the Armed Services Committee, Senator Perdue will chair the Subcommittee on Seapower: “Today, we have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the oldest and smallest Air Force ever. At the same time, we face complex threats from China, North Korea, Russia, and Iran. A robust naval fleet is critical to deter aggression worldwide, project power, and support our allies. The Subcommittee on Seapower will provide vital oversight and support for our Navy and Marine Corps as they work to meet this increasing demand for global missions.” Senator Perdue will also serve on the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support. On the Banking Committee, Senator Perdue will chair the Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development: “Having lived and worked around the world, I’ve seen firsthand the diverse needs of many different cities and rural communities. This Subcommittee will focus on issues facing growing cities, like Atlanta, including affordable housing, mass transit, and the mortgage marketplace. Additionally, we will look at ways to fix the current structures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are unsustainable and put taxpayers at risk when economic downturns take place. I look forward to working with Secretary Carson, Secretary Perdue, and others to improve efficiency and accountability across all federal housing assistance programs and bring positive change to America’s underserved communities.” Senator Perdue will also serve on the Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment, and Subcommittee on Economic Policy. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.25.2019	02.25.19 Senator David Perdue: All Life Is Worth Protecting WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: “All life is worth protecting. It’s unconscionable that a health care practitioner wouldn’t do everything in their power to save a child in their first moments of life. As a father and grandfather, I consider every child a blessing. I sincerely hope that everyone in Congress will stand in solidarity to protect the innocent and promote a culture that values life.” In January, Senator Perdue sent a letter to President Trump urging him to veto any funding bills that would weaken federal pro-life protections. Additionally, Senator Perdue is a cosponsor of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. ###
02.21.2019	02.21.19 Senator David Perdue Attends Delta Test Cell Grand Opening ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Delta CEO Ed Bastian and Delta employees for the grand opening of the world’s largest jet engine test cell at Delta Air Lines TechOps Facility at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Delta’s new test cell is the first cell built by a U.S. airline in more than 20 years. Click here or on the image below to download photos.https://flic.kr/s/aHskSd3p2CL-R: Delta CEO Ed Bastian, Senior Vice President of Operations, Inventory, and Logistics Mike Moore, Senior Vice President of Technical Operations Don Mitacek, and Senator David Perdue “Delta continues to lead the industry in innovation and reliability. This impressive new technology allows Delta to build and maintain better engines and prepares them to meet growing industry demands,” said Senator Perdue. “Delta’s leaders and employees are some of the best in the business, and their continued investment will help attract even more highly-skilled technicians and engineers as they expand operations. I am proud Delta calls Georgia home and appreciate the significant impact they have on our state every day.” “These investments are about expanding Delta’s business opportunities today while also setting us up for long-term growth,” said Delta CEO Ed Bastian. “Building on the expertise of the world’s best professionals, we will be positioned to grow with the industry’s evolving technology and next generation engines and aircraft.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.15.2019	02.15.19 Senators Perdue, Isakson To Introduce Disaster Relief Package Will lead Senate effort to provide relief for Georgia, other states impacted by recent hurricanes, wildfires ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) announced they will introduce a stand-alone disaster relief package to provide critical funding for Georgia and other states recovering from recent natural disasters, including Hurricane Michael. “Enough is enough. Georgia and other states across the country are hurting from historic hurricanes and devastating wildfires, and the federal government continues to drag its feet,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “In October, President Trump and Vice President Pence both saw the devastation firsthand and promised to help Georgia and other states rebuild. It’s long past time to make good on these promises. For farmers in Georgia, it’s not a matter of putting a crop in the ground this year – it’s a matter of putting a crop in the ground ever again. I will continue to fight for disaster relief until our farmers and rural communities have the resources they need to recover.” “The biggest immediate crisis facing Georgia today is the relief money needed for the lost agricultural products from the hurricanes that have hit here and in other states,” said Senator Isakson. “We are in crisis mode for our farmers and agricultural community, and we will not stop until we get needed aid for those who have suffered devastation. Additional losses grow every day we wait, and it’s far past time we fulfill the promises that were made. Supplemental disaster funding was overwhelmingly supported in funding proposals voted on earlier this year, so there shouldn’t be a reason for further delay on a supplemental disaster relief package to provide critical aid for Georgians.” The senators plan to introduce a supplemental funding package after the U.S. Senate reconvenes on February 25 that includes $3 billion to provide critical agriculture disaster relief for farmers recovering in the wake of Hurricane Michael, along with additional funds for communities in Georgia and other states. Senators Perdue and Isakson have vowed to continue raising this issue in the Senate until Congress approves disaster funding. Background: On November 30, 2018, Perdue and Isakson sent two letters requesting additional funding for disaster assistance for Georgians recovering after Hurricane Michael: the first letter to Senate appropriators and the second to Senate leadership. On January 31, Perdue and Isakson introduced a supplemental agriculture disaster relief amendment to provide critical funding for Georgia and other states recovering from recent hurricane and wildfire damage. On February 13, Perdue and Isakson joined 11 other bipartisan senators in sending a letter to House and Senate leadership urging immediate action on a supplemental disaster relief package. ###
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Senator David Perdue Votes To Secure The Southern Border WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the bipartisan solution to fully-fund the federal government, including border security: “The Senate took action to address the national security crisis at our southern border. This bipartisan solution funds 55 miles of new barrier in the Rio Grande Valley border sector – the most dangerous and heavily-trafficked sector of the U.S.-Mexico border. Earlier this week, I visited the Rio Grande Valley to see the crisis firsthand. The growth in illegal drug and human trafficking is alarming. Our border patrol agents need these additional resources and barriers so they can do their jobs and protect the American people. This bipartisan package is a step in the right direction and allows President Trump to better secure the most concerning areas along our southern border. “The fact that Congress is still discussing border security funding five months into the current fiscal year only underscores the dysfunction in Washington’s broken funding process. Additionally, I am deeply disappointed that Congress still has not addressed disaster relief funding for Georgia and other states that were devastated by last year’s hurricane and wildfire damage. Our people are hurting and in desperate need of more assistance as they work to rebuild, and we will have their backs.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Senator David Perdue Discusses Trip To Southern Border “The security crisis is clear when you’re at the border and see it personally in an overnight patrol.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined CNBC’s Squawk Box to discuss his recent trip to the U.S.-Mexico border to see the national security crisis firsthand. Click here to watch. Highlights: Support Border Patrol Agents: “Senator Daines and I went out in the field overnight and saw the apprehension of illegal immigrants firsthand. I can tell you our border patrol agents are doing a yeoman’s job. We need to give border patrol help in addition to building barriers.” Spike In Drug Trafficking: “I visited the busiest part of the southern border and was overwhelmed by the growth in drug traffic. The Mexican cartels have found the soft spots, and they are bringing a shocking amount of drugs into our country.” National Security Crisis: “The security crisis is clear when you’re at the border and see it personally in an overnight patrol. We were out there watching the apprehensions, watching drugs come across the river, and listening to scouts talk about where the patrols were.” Keep Up The Momentum: “The three areas along the border where previous U.S. presidents built walls have seen illegal drug and human trafficking reduced by about 95 percent. Building 55 additional miles this year will keep the momentum going on what the past four presidents have built.” Border Security Should Be Bipartisan: “Both sides have agreed there’s a security issue at our southern border, but it has been politicized. I hope the deal that’s on the table this week will get us past this impasse.” Broken Funding Process: “We are in our fifth month of this fiscal year. This border security funding should have been done last year. We have to move on and get to next year’s budget and appropriations, or we’re going to be right back here at the end of September doing the same thing.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Isakson, Perdue Urge Senate, House Leaders to Immediately Fund Agriculture Disaster Relief WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today wrote to House and Senate leadership urging immediate action on a supplemental disaster relief package to provide critical aid for victims of natural disasters in Georgia and across the country. Supplemental disaster funding was overwhelmingly supported by 98 U.S. senators, including Isakson and Perdue, in funding proposals voted on earlier this year, but this week’s initial agreement to fund the government past February 15 does not include this crucial funding. In a letter to Congressional leaders, Isakson and Perdue joined with a bipartisan group of senators representing states recovering from recent hurricane and wildfire damage to urge an immediate vote on disaster recovery funding for states working to rebuild, writing, “…we insist you bring a disaster supplemental bill to the floor for consideration at the earliest opportunity to ensure that the federal government fulfills its responsibility.” The letter also expresses concerns that, if a supplemental disaster relief package is not passed by Congress, “state and local governments will not have the necessary resources needed to address critical issues, including defense capabilities, agriculture, infrastructure and economic development that are crucial to our constituents and businesses in hard hit areas.” In their effort to ensure Georgia farmers and others recovering in the wake of Hurricane Michael receive much-needed federal aid, Isakson and Perdue have twice introduced a $3 billion agriculture disaster relief amendment to bills under consideration before the Senate in the 116th Congress. Perdue and Isakson plan to continue raising this issue in the Senate until Congress approves disaster funding. Today’s letter was led by U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and in addition to Isakson and Perdue, signed by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Doug Jones (D-AL), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Rick Scott (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). On November 30, 2018, Perdue and Isakson sent two letters requesting additional funding for disaster assistance for Georgians recovering after Hurricane Michael: the first letter to Senate appropriators and the second to Senate leadership. The full text of the February 13 letter to Senate leadership is available here. ###
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Lands Package Including Georgia Priorities Passes Senate “Expanding the parks’ boundaries and preserving their history is a top priority for Georgians.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds Senate passage of the Natural Resources Management Act, which includes provisions to expand and preserve the Ocmulgee National Monument in Macon, Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park in Kennesaw, and Fort Frederica National Monument in Saint Simons: “Ocmulgee National Monument, Kennesaw Mountain Battlefield Park, and Fort Frederica National Monument are some of Georgia’s most treasured historical sites,” said Senator Perdue. “Expanding the parks’ boundaries and preserving their history is a top priority for many Georgians and will help boost tourism in our state. I’m hopeful the House will get this bill across the finish line and to President Trump’s desk soon.” Background: The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act expands the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to approximately 2,800 acres and changes its name to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park.” The legislation also authorizes a resources study to evaluate potential future park expansions, which would further protect vulnerable land and allow visitors more opportunities for recreational activities. The Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act expands Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park to include historic Wallis House and Harriston Hill. The Fort Frederica National Monument Boundary Expansion Act increases the cap on the park’s size from 250 acres to 305 acres, ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Senator David Perdue Leads Effort To Hold Unconstitutional Consumer Agency Accountable WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is leading 17 other U.S. Senators in an effort to hold the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) accountable to the American people by bringing it under the Congressional appropriations process. “Dodd-Frank gave the CFPB unprecedented power with no Congressional oversight whatsoever,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Banking Committee. “Despite the new Director’s efforts to bring transparency to the Bureau, its structure is still completely unconstitutional. The American people deserve a closer look at the CFPB to understand how its actions will impact consumers.” Background: Dodd-Frank established the CFPB’s budget at as much as 12% of the Federal Reserve’s annual operating expense. That is roughly $680 million without any Congressional oversight of the agency’s funds. The CFPB Accountability Act of 2019 would subject the CFPB to the annual Congressional funding process and provides oversight for an agency that has evaded Congressional review since its inception. Senator Perdue first took action to rein in the CFPB in 2015 and has since introduced this proposal in every Congress. The CFPB Accountability Act of 2019 is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Ben Sasse (R-NE), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ted Cruz (R-TX), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Boozman (R-AR), John Barrasso (R-WY), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Senators Perdue, Daines Visit Southern Border “Those who call this crisis ‘manufactured’ are ignoring reality.” MCALLEN, TX – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Steve Daines (R-MT) visited the U.S.-Mexico border to see the security crisis firsthand. The Senators viewed illegal crossing hotspots and received real-time briefings from border patrol agents. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “There is an illegal drug and security crisis at our southern border,” said the senators. “Those who call this crisis ‘manufactured’ are ignoring reality. As we saw firsthand, U.S. border patrol agents are facing consequences of a porous border every day without adequate physical barriers and resources. It’s now clear that the real tragedy is the dramatic increase in illegal drug trafficking. We will continue working to ensure our border patrol agents have the resources they need, so they can do their jobs and protect Americans.” There has been a dramatic spike in illegal drugs at the southern border. From FY2017 to FY2018: 38% increase in methamphetamine 22% increase in heroin 73% increase in fentanyl In FY2018, U.S. Customs and Border Protection seized 1.7 million pounds of narcotics, including: 282,000 pounds of cocaine 248,000 pounds of methamphetamine 6,500 pounds of heroin 2,400 pounds of fentanyl ###
02.08.2019	02.08.19 Senator David Perdue Addresses HBCU Presidents Highlights Bipartisan Results for HBCUs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus, addressed U.S. Senator Tim Scott’s (R-SC) third annual gathering for HBCU presidents and senior leadership. Spelman College, Morehouse University, Fort Valley State University, and Albany State University were represented at the event. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “HBCUs play an important role in educating America’s next generation of leaders,” said Senator Perdue. “By working across party lines, we’ve taken important steps to support HBCUs. For example, Congressman David Scott and I worked together to secure funding for HBCU agriculture scholarships in the final Farm Bill. Senator Cory Booker and I teamed up to address funding challenges HBCUs face when financing infrastructure improvements. We also supported minority women in STEM at HBCUs in the defense bill. These bipartisan results are a model for how Washington can work when the national interest is put ahead of self-interests. There is still more to be done, but I am hopeful that by partnering with universities and the business community, we will be able to keep students engaged, provide more mentorship and support, and ultimately build a more diverse and qualified workforce.” This week, Senator Perdue introduced the HBCU PARTNERS Act with Senators Tim Scott and Chris Coons (D-DE). The HBCU PARTNERS Act requires federal agencies with relevant grants and programs to submit annual plans outlining goals and objectives to support HBCUs. The bill is also sponsored by Senators Doug Jones (D-AL), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), and Tim Kaine (D-VA). ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.07.2019	02.07.19 Senator David Perdue Meets With Attorney General Nominee William Barr WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) meets with President Trump’s nominee to be United States Attorney General, William Barr: Click here to download photos. “William Barr’s extensive legal career in business, government, and private practice makes him a well-rounded choice for U.S. Attorney General. During our meeting, we discussed the importance of maintaining integrity at the Justice Department and making our country safer for all Americans. Having previously served as U.S. Attorney General under President George H. W. Bush, Mr. Barr is uniquely qualified to perform this role again during the Trump Administration.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Senator David Perdue: Optimism Is Back In America Highlights President Trump’s State of the Union Address & America’s Economic Turnaround WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Laura Ingraham on Fox News’ The Ingraham Angle to highlight President Trump’s second State of the Union address. Click here to watch. Highlights: Build On The Success: “The President landed his speech – one of the most historic speeches I can remember. He laid out a vision for America that builds on the successes of his presidency so far and the results he’s achieving right now.” Economy Is Rocking: “The Democrat response builds on a false narrative that’s not based on any reality of fact. This is the greatest economic turnaround in our history. We have the highest median income in U.S. history, the lowest African-American unemployment in history, and lowest total unemployment in 50 years. The economy is rocking because of President Trump’s policies. Optimism Is Back: “Having spent a lot of time around the country over the last few months and certainly in my home state, I can tell you the economy is moving, people are getting jobs, and incomes are rising. Optimism in America is back after a decade of the lowest economic performance in history” Historic Opportunity: “The ball is in Nancy Pelosi’s hands right now, and frankly, we need to see a proposal from the Democrats. For 35 days during the partial shutdown, we did not get one single proposal on border security from the Speaker of the House. The President put forward several proposals. This three-week cooling off period gives us an opportunity to work out a result to border security, and I’m hopeful they will do that. Nancy Pelosi has an historic opportunity right now to be a partner with President Trump.” Achieving Results: “America saw a President who is hitting his stride and is buoyant on the results that his agenda is achieving. It’s disgusting to see Americans sit on their hands when you talk about the lowest African-American unemployment in U.S. history. It’s the hypocrisy of politics you see the Democrats perpetrating right now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Atlanta Boys & Girls Clubs Student Joins Senator Perdue At State Of The Union WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) welcomed Cory Seals, Boys & Girls Clubs of Georgia’s 2017/2018 Youth of the Year Runner-up, as his special guest to the State of the Union. Cory is from Atlanta, Georgia, and currently attends the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, where he studies directing, playwriting, and production with a minor in musical theater. Click here or on the image below to download photos. Click here to download b-roll video. “It was an honor to have Cory Seals, a top student from Boys & Girls Clubs of Georgia, as my guest to the State of the Union,” said Senator Perdue. “With support and encouragement from Boys & Girls Clubs staff, Cory has been able to excel academically and make a difference in his community. Today, he’s fulfilling his dream of attending the University of the Arts. Cory’s story is proof that with hard work and mentorship, anyone can succeed. I’m proud that the Boys & Girls Clubs of America calls Georgia home, and I share their commitment to helping kids and teens reach their full potential.” “As a child, I remember watching the State of the Union address with my parents. They always felt it was important for me to be informed about what was going on in the government,” said Cory Seals. “It was a humbling experience to know I was part of such a great moment in history and a legacy of promoting adult literacy with Boys & Girls Clubs and Senator Perdue.” “On behalf of the 4.3 million kids and teens Boys & Girls Clubs serve across the country and the more than 73,000 in Georgia alone, we are grateful for Senator Perdue’s continued leadership and commitment to help ensure great futures for our nation’s youth,” said Julie Teer, Chief Development and Public Affairs Officer for Boys & Girls Clubs of America. “At Boys & Girls Clubs, we help ensure kids and teens are life- and career-ready so that young people like Cory can achieve their full potential. In fact, 83 percent of Club members believe they can make a difference in the community. Having a front row view at the workings of our democracy is pivotal to making that belief a reality." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s State Of The Union Address “President Trump laid out a very powerful vision for our country that continues to build on the successes of the last two years.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s second State of the Union address to the nation: “Tonight, President Trump laid out a very powerful vision for our country that continues to build on the successes of the last two years. Many Americans are seeing increased paychecks, more opportunities, and brighter futures for their families. The economy is growing at twice the rate it did under President Obama, and more than 5.3 million new jobs have been created. Total unemployment is the lowest in 50 years, while African American, Hispanic, and Asian American unemployment is the lowest ever. “While much work has been accomplished, we still need bipartisan solutions to address the rising costs of health care, fix our broken immigration system, rebuild and modernize our infrastructure, and negotiate fair trade deals with our partners around the world. “While we heard a positive message from President Trump, Democrats sat on their hands. There is a stark contrast between the positive results we’ve seen under President Trump and Democrats’ radical policies that have been proven to fail.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Senator David Perdue: We Have An Historic Opportunity Previews President Trump’s State of the Union on PBS NewsHour WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Judy Woodruff on PBS NewsHour to preview President Trump’s State of the Union address and the critical need for border security. Click here to watch. Highlights: Dealmaker: “Tonight, in the State of the Union, you'll hear President Trump offer a conciliatory tone, because he's a dealmaker. The President just wants to get border security moving in the right direction, and both parties actually want that.” Political Hypocrisy: “This President is the fifth president in a row who has asked Congress for border funding to build a wall. President George H.W. Bush built the first miles. Even President Obama built 135 miles of barrier. Both parties agree that this is a national security issue, and we need to handle it now. The problem is the hypocrisy of politics has brought us to this point.” Perspective: “President Trump is trying to protect the American people. He’s fighting for our national security. There are 2,000 miles of the southern border, and 650 miles already have some sort of barrier. The President is just asking for a little more than 200 miles of barrier. I think that puts it in perspective. He wants the barrier built in positions where drug trafficking, human trafficking, and illegal immigration is happening in the most severe manner right now.” Hopeful For A Solution: “I’m hopeful that tomorrow we'll hear statements from the conference committee on border security that will give us optimism about getting past this impasse. Border security funding is an appropriations issue that should have been dealt with before September 30th of last year. We’re in the fifth month of our new fiscal year, so I’m hopeful that everybody will get this done.” Bipartisan Opportunity: “We have an historic opportunity. If you think about Tip O’Neill and President Ronald Reagan, Newt Gingrich and President Bill Clinton, split government is when really big things happened. Nancy Pelosi has a choice as Speaker of the House – she can work with this President who has proven he will make a deal, just as he did with the historic, bipartisan Dodd-Frank relief bill last year that really helped small banks. Is Nancy Pelosi going to legislate with this President, or is she going to investigate going into the 2020 presidential election?” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Senator David Perdue Supports Israel, Middle East Allies Senate Passes Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the U.S. Senate’s bipartisan package that expands support for Israel and other allies in the Middle East: “Israel is America’s closest and strongest ally in the Middle East. On my first international trip as a U.S. Senator, I met with Prime Minister Netanyahu and personally expressed the United States’ strong support for our friend Israel. Their country faces constant attacks from Iran, Hezbollah, Hamas, and other terrorist groups in the region. We should take every opportunity to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel, Jordan, and other allies who partner with us to strengthen security in the most volatile part of the world. While I am disappointed that some have used this process for political posturing, ultimately, this bipartisan package is critical to advancing our long-term strategy in the Middle East.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.01.2019	02.01.19 Senators Perdue & King Lead Bipartisan Effort For Timely DoD Audit “It is imperative that subsequent, annual audits continue as planned.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Angus King (I-ME), and 24 bipartisan members of the U.S. Senate Armed Services and Budget Committees sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan requesting his commitment to timely completion of a full audit of the Department of Defense in FY2019. “We commend Mr. Norquist and the Department of Defense for finishing its first-ever complete audit required by the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990. This was a critical first step to bring greater transparency and accountability to the Pentagon; however, more progress must be made to reach a clean opinion,” wrote the senators. “It is important to note that the benefits of the audit go beyond good stewardship of the taxpayer dollar,” continued the senators. “Not only will it improve business operations, but also it can enhance national security by ensuring accuracy in inventory and by identifying vulnerabilities in our cybersecurity. Ultimately, because only 5 of the 24 individual audits conducted received a passing grade, it is imperative that subsequent, annual audits continue as planned to properly measure progress.” Senators Perdue and King were joined by Senators Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Mike Braun (R-IN), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Doug Jones (D-AL), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Gary Peters (D-MI), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Rick Scott (R-FL), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). In the FY2017 defense bill, Senator Perdue required the Department of Defense’s systems, processes, and controls to be updated to match audit-readiness terminology used in the private sector and other federal agencies. His amendment also required the Secretary of Defense to annually certify DoD’s financial statements as being reliable. This provision was a major step toward holding DoD accountable. View the letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.31.2019	01.31.19 Senators Perdue, Isakson Continue Fight For Agriculture Disaster Relief Introduce Package To Assist Farmers Recovering From Hurricane, Wildfire Damage WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) introduced a supplemental disaster relief package to provide critical funding for Georgia and other states recovering from recent hurricane and wildfire damage. “Farmers in Georgia and other states across the country are hurting from historic hurricanes and devastating wildfires,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “We cannot wait around for Congress to complete this year’s government funding. Federal disaster relief should be considered immediately. In October, President Trump and Vice President Pence both saw the devastation firsthand and promised to help Georgia and other states rebuild. Now, Congress has the opportunity to help them keep that promise. I will continue to fight for disaster relief until our farmers and rural communities have the resources they need to get back on their feet.” “Georgia farmers are still recovering from natural disasters in 2017 and 2018, and they need all the support they can get,” said Senator Isakson. “We’ve got to help them and the other farm communities who have had natural disasters change their lives through no fault of their own, and I will keep working to get them the federal aid they need.” This supplemental funding package will provide about $3 billion for disaster relief across the country, including critical funds for Georgia farmers recovering in the wake of Hurricane Michael. Perdue and Isakson plan to continue raising this issue in the Senate until Congress approves disaster funding. On November 30, 2018, Senators Perdue and Isakson sent two letters requesting additional funding for disaster assistance for Georgians recovering after Hurricane Michael: the first letter to Senate appropriators and the second to Senate leadership. Click here for full text of the amendment. ###
01.30.2019	01.30.19 Senator David Perdue Talks Border Security Funding On Fox Business “Each of the last four U.S. presidents has built some type of barrier at the southern border.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business’s Mornings with Maria to discuss border security funding and the failure of socialism in Venezuela: Click here to watch. Highlights: Last Four Presidents: “Each of the last four U.S. presidents has built some type of barrier at the southern border. Even Barack Obama built 135 miles of barrier. Now, President Trump is talking about 235 miles of new border barrier.” Democrat Hypocrisy: “Border security is something the Democrats called for last year. They called the situation at the southern border an emergency for the last 30 years, since President Clinton. Now, the Democrats do not want to fund border security because President Trump wants it. The hypocrisy in this political environment is very visible.” Protecting The American People: “President Trump has committed that he’s going to fulfill his responsibility to the American people. The Democrats in Congress have already let the President build about 120 miles of barrier so far, so this should not be a debate. It’s only a political issue for the Democrats, and I hope the select committee on border security will get us past that.” Socialism Does Not Work: “What you see in Venezuela is a failed socialist state. It’s interesting that in our own political debate in the 2020 presidential election, you’ll hear a lot from the Democrats about the values of socialism.” Support Democracy: “I give President Trump a lot of credit for backing the Venezuelan opposition leader, Guaido, because what he’s calling for is free and open democratic elections under Venezuela’s constitution. America fully supports that. A number of other countries have backed President Trump in supporting the opposition leader in Venezuela.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.25.2019	01.25.19 Senator Perdue Supports Deal To Reopen Government & Continue Border Security Efforts WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) supports the solution to reopen the government and continue border security efforts: “This bipartisan solution will reopen the government while border security negotiations continue. There is still a national security crisis at our southern border, and President Trump is right to address it. I applaud the President for his continued forthright efforts to enter into good faith negotiations with House and Senate Democrats. Many Democrats have supported and voted for border security in the past, but throughout this process they’ve clearly demonstrated they want to keep immigration as a political issue, and not find a real solution. If Democrats refuse to work with us to tackle this national priority over the next few weeks, President Trump will do what is necessary to protect America. Ultimately, this situation only underscores the dysfunction in Washington’s funding process. These conversations should have been completed last year, not four months into the current fiscal year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.24.2019	01.24.19 Senator David Perdue Votes To Fully Reopen Government, Fund Border Security & Disaster Relief “In the real world, both sides have to negotiate to find a solution.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue supports President Trump’s compromise proposal to fully reopen the federal government and fund both border security and disaster relief for Georgia: “Many of us fought to keep the Senate in session last August to avoid this funding situation in the first place. President Trump has tried to reopen negotiations with a reasonable proposal that not only fully funds the federal government, but also addresses critical border security and disaster relief. It is unacceptable that Senate Democrats continue to reject every opportunity to compromise in good faith. In the real world, both sides have to negotiate to find a solution. It’s time to work together to tackle these national priorities.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.24.2019	01.24.19 Senator David Perdue Addresses Georgia Sheriffs’ Association “I want all law enforcement officers to know I’m proud of them, I appreciate what they do, and I’ve got their backs.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association’s Winter Conference in Atlanta, Georgia: Click here or on the image below to download photos. “Georgia is home to some of the most impressive law enforcement officers in the nation,” said Senator Perdue. “Our sheriffs are pillars of the community and work every day to preserve peace, prevent crime, and protect all Georgians. It was great to hear directly from many of our state’s sheriffs. Their input is critical as we work to increase public safety and improve school security. I want all law enforcement officers to know I’m proud of them, I appreciate what they do, and I’ve got their backs.” “Senator Perdue has a sincere commitment to ensuring the safety of all Georgians,” said Terry Norris, Executive Director of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association. “We greatly appreciate his presence at the Sheriffs’ Winter Training Conference and his long-standing support of the Constitutional Office of Sheriff and the many dedicated women and men who perform the duties of deputy sheriffs and jailers.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.23.2019	01.23.19 Senators Isakson, Perdue Congratulate Georgia Students Selected For U.S. Senate Youth Program Students to visit Washington, D.C., receive $10,000 scholarships ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) congratulate four Georgia high school students who were selected as delegates or alternates to the 57th annual United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP), which will be held March 2 through 9, 2019, in Washington, D.C. Patrick Chappel of Columbus, Georgia, and Clarke Peoples of Atlanta, have been chosen as delegates in a very competitive selection process to be part of the group of 104 student delegates who will attend the program’s “Washington Week.” Each delegate will also receive a $10,000 college scholarship for undergraduate study. While in Washington, D.C., the student delegates will attend meetings and briefings with senators, U.S. House representatives, congressional staff, the president, a justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an ambassador to the United States, and senior members of the national media. The students will also tour many of the national monuments and several museums. Chosen as alternates to the 2019 program were Nicklaus Proctor, of Calhoun, Georgia, who attends Sonoraville High School, and Brandon Wilson of Lithia Springs, Georgia, who attends Lithia Springs High School. “I’m excited to congratulate and welcome the students selected to participate in this year’s U.S. Senate Youth Program,” said Senator Isakson. “These students’ hard work has paid off, and they are going to get a special glimpse of the federal government during their trip in March. I applaud Patrick and Clarke, as well as our Georgia alternates, Nicklaus and Brandon, on putting their interests into action.” “Congratulations to Patrick Chappel and Clarke Peoples on being selected for the United States Senate Youth Program, and to Nicklaus Proctor and Brandon Wilson for being chosen as alternates,” said Senator Perdue. “This high honor reflects these students’ dedication to their academics and to their communities. I know they will make Georgia proud as they represent our state as student delegates.” Chappel, a senior at Columbus High School, serves as chairman of the High School Democrats of Georgia. As president of the Columbus High Young Democrats, he doubled the membership, brought notable speakers to the school, and registered more than 100 students to vote. He was elected president of the Muscogee County Young Democrats and received the Muscogee County Democratic Committee Youth Leadership Award. He plans to study political science in college and build a public policy-centered career. Peoples, a senior at North Atlanta High School, serves as the president of the student body. Previously, she served as class president in each high school grade. She has participated in the Georgia Governor’s Honors program, the Washington Journalism and Media Conference as a national youth correspondent, and as a summer law intern for Barnes and Thornburg, LLP. Clarke also founded the North Atlanta High School Student Political Association and will be attending Columbia University in the fall. Her long-term goal is to become a lawyer and be involved in criminal justice advocacy. The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates after nomination by teachers and principals. This year’s Georgia delegates were designated by Richard Woods, Georgia’s state superintendent of schools. Each year this extremely competitive merit-based program brings 104 of the most outstanding high school students — two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity — to Washington, D.C., for an intensive week-long study of the federal government and the people who lead it. The overall mission of the program is to help instill within each class of USSYP student delegates more in-depth knowledge of the American political process and a lifelong commitment to public service. In addition to the program week, The Hearst Foundations provide each student with a $10,000 undergraduate college scholarship with encouragement to continue coursework in government, history and public affairs. Transportation and other expenses for Washington Week are also provided by The Hearst Foundations; no government funds are utilized. The USSYP was created by S.Res.324 in 1962 and has been sponsored by the Senate and fully funded by The Hearst Foundations since its inception. In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, the student delegates generally rank academically in the top 1 percent of their states among high school juniors and seniors. ###
01.21.2019	01.21.19 Senator David Perdue Honors Dr. King At Ebenezer Baptist Church “Dr. King gave us hope during some of this country’s darkest days. He changed America forever.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) honors the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during the annual commemorative service at historic Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. Click here or on the image below to watch his remarks. Transcript: “On April 16, 1963 from a jail cell in Birmingham, Alabama, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote a letter to the local clergy defending his commitment to peaceful direct action. In this letter, you can see the soul of a patriot, the soul of a man who was destined to change the direction of an entire country. Over time, this letter became very personal to me. “I grew up in America in the 1960s. Racism was real. Segregation was real. Discrimination was real. I remember how this weighed on my parents. They were simple schoolteachers, and all they wanted was for every child to be treated the same regardless of where they came from, what their name was, or the color of their skin. “Put simply, my dad revered Dr. King. Growing up, I remember my father using Dr. King as an example of a leader who was not afraid to do the right thing. He was not afraid to challenge the status quo and injustice. He was not afraid to teach us how to get along with each other. He also taught us about adversity. As Dr. King once said, ‘the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy’ – much like today. “In 1961, my dad became Superintendent of Schools in Houston County in Georgia. He integrated the schools and was one of the first in the state of Georgia to do so. He said it was simply the right thing to do. He did it in the face of great adversity. He used Dr. King as an example all the way through. Dr. King was an inspiration for my father. “Dr. King gave us hope during some of this country’s darkest days. He changed America forever. Our country has overcome a lot, but there is much yet to be done. We need today to reflect on the ideals of Dr. Martin Luther King – the things he fought for, the things he died for. He often reminded us that what unites us is far greater than what divides us. Though we may talk differently, look differently, or have different political views, he would remind us we are one nation under God. “The closing sentence of the Declaration of Independence says, ‘And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of God, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.’ In this Birmingham letter, Dr. King wrote, ‘Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.’ My father quoted that more times than I can tell you. “The closing words of that letter are as meaningful today as they were then. ‘Let us all hope that the dark clouds of racial prejudice will soon pass away and the deep fog of misunderstanding will be lifted from our fear-drenched communities and in some not too distant tomorrow, the radiant stars of love and brotherhood will shine over our great nation with all their scintillating beauty.’ “God bless you for being here. Thank you God for Dr. Martin Luther King.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.19.2019	01.19.19 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s Border Security Proposal ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s proposal to fund border security and resolve the partial government funding situation: “President Trump again spoke directly to the American people about the national security crisis at our southern border. The President has listened to both sides and is still willing to compromise. All members of Congress should take this proposal seriously. However, some Senate Democrats' rejection of the proposal before even hearing the details underscores how desperately they want to keep making immigration a political issue rather than working toward a real bipartisan solution that could reopen the government.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.18.2019	01.18.19 Senator David Perdue: We Have A Moral Obligation To Protect The Unborn WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the annual March for Life in our nation’s capital: “Georgians and Americans from across the country are joining together in our nation’s capital and marching to protect unborn life. Like the hundreds of thousands of March for Life participants, I believe we have a moral obligation to promote a culture that values life and protects the innocent. As a father and grandfather, I consider every child a blessing. I sincerely hope that everyone in Congress will unite and stand in solidarity to protect the unborn.” This week, Senator Perdue cosponsored the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act and sent a letter to President Trump urging him to veto any funding bills that would weaken federal pro-life protections. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Perdue, Ernst, Lankford Call For No Recess Until Government Funding Process Completed WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following years of Congress’s repeated failure to fully fund the federal government on time, U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Joni Ernst (R-IA), and James Lankford (R-OK), are taking action to prohibit members of Congress from leaving Washington if they fail to complete the funding process on time. “Congress should be held to the same standards of people in the real world,” said Senator Perdue. “Washington’s broken funding process has created a dysfunctional cycle of continuing resolutions, last-minute spending deals, and government shutdowns. Enough is enough. It’s time to create a politically neutral platform to fund the government on time every year, including real consequences for Members of Congress if they don’t get the entire job done. We should not go home until we have completed our work. Period.” “Hardworking Iowans, and Americans across the country, are sick and tired of government shutdowns, continuing resolutions and massive omnibus spending bills,” said Senator Ernst. This dysfunctional cycle is not the way our government was designed to function or should function. If we fail to pass a budget and spending bills, we should stay in town and work together until we get the job done.” “If the government shuts down due to congressional dysfunction and failure to agree on spending bills, Members of the Senate and House, the President, and his Cabinet should not be allowed to leave DC,” said Senator Lankford. “If we want to really put the pressure on Congress to take action on funding, we should prevent Members from going home or traveling during pre-scheduled ‘recess weeks,’ which would encourage Congress to actually have those tough conversations about spending. Just as Americans expect us to, we need to stay until the job is done. We are on day 26 of the longest-ever government shutdown, and yet Congress is about to go home for the weekend, with some Members flying out of the country. The proposal that we offer today would keep Congress in town until the budget is finally resolved. During a government shutdown, Congress and the White House should experience pain, not the American people.” Congress is supposed to fund the government by October 1—the first day of the new fiscal year. However, since 1976, Congress has only funded the government on time four times. Instead, Congress usually relies on temporary funding extensions called “continuing resolutions,” which are wasteful and create uncertainty. Worse yet, there have been 21 government shutdowns or funding lapses since 1976. Background: If both the House and Senate have not approved a budget by April 15 or passed all appropriations bills by August 1, then: Congress would not be able to adjourn for more than eight hours. No funds would be available for official travel. Two quorum calls would be held per day to ensure that Members of Congress cannot leave Washington. Congress’s Failed Funding Process By The Numbers: $22 Trillion: The U.S. is nearly $22 trillion in debt. $1 Trillion: U.S. budget deficits are projected to exceed $1 trillion in coming years. 21 Shutdowns Or Funding Lapses: Since 1976, funding battles have shut down the government or caused funding gaps 21 times, costing billions in retroactive pay and lost economic output. 1996: The last time that Congress funded the government on time was 1996 – over 20 years ago. 11 Budgets In 20 Years: Congress has passed a budget resolution only 11 times in the past 20 years, and has passed all appropriations bills only four times since 1976. 5 Continuing Resolutions: Since 1999, Congress has passed an average of five continuing resolutions per year, creating constant uncertainty for federal agencies, grantees and others who rely on federal funding. $4 Billion In Waste: Our reliance on continuing resolutions has forced the Department of Defense to ground or underfund dozens of programs and has, for example, resulted in $4 billion in waste for the Navy since 2011. ###
01.16.2019	01.16.19 Senator David Perdue Highlights Democrat Hypocrisy “This is the second time Schumer has shut down the government” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined CNBC’s Squawk Box to discuss government funding and the critical need for border security. Click here to watch. Highlights: National Security Crisis: “We have a national security crisis. President Trump is the first president of the last five that is standing up and going to the mat to defend America.” Political Self-Interest: “The dysfunction in this town is unconscionable. It's unbelievable that Congress is still trying to finish funding the federal government four months into the fiscal year. It’s time for Congress to step up, get past the political self-interest, and get this done. The American people expect that.” Totally Irresponsible: “It is totally irresponsible by both parties that border security is being discussed in January, not September of last year.” Democrat Hypocrisy: “Over 750,000 people are trying to enter this country illegally every year. To put that in perspective, the United States brings in 1.1 million legal immigrants a year. This is a national security crisis, and it only heightens the Democrats’ hypocrisy. This is the second time Senator Schumer has shut down the government over this issue.” Broken Budget Process: “Congress worked through August last year and completed 75% of the federal government’s discretionary budget. That was the first time in 22 years. Congress’s budget process is broken. The American people ought to be outraged.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.14.2019	01.14.19 Senator David Perdue Congratulates Governor Brian Kemp Kemp sworn in as Georgia’s 83rd Governor ATLANTA, GA – After attending the inaugural ceremony, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) congratulates Governor Brian Kemp, Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan, and other statewide constitutional officers on being sworn in: Click here or on the image below to download a photo. “This is a big day for Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Governor Kemp will continue the legacy of Governors Sonny Perdue and Nathan Deal that made Georgia the best state in the country in which to do business. Governor Kemp has already hit the ground running, and has shown he is ready to tackle big challenges and build on our state’s success. I could not be more proud of Brian, Marty, and their entire family, and I will work with them to continue delivering results for all Georgians.” “What an honor to be sworn in as Georgia’s 83rd Governor,” said Governor Kemp. “I look forward to partnering with strong leaders like David Perdue to grow the economy, roll back regulations, strengthen rural communities, and protect our families. Together, we will keep our state – and country – moving in the right direction.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.11.2019	01.11.19 Senators Perdue, Isakson Congratulate American Farm Bureau On 100th Anniversary ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) introduce a Senate resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of the American Farm Bureau Federation and celebrating its long history representing farmers across the United States. “For the past 100 years, the American Farm Bureau has been a champion for farmers and rural communities across the country,” said Senator Perdue. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. We’re fortunate to have Georgians like Farm Bureau President Zippy Duvall and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue leading the way toward a safer, stronger, and more abundant agricultural industry. Congratulations to all members of the Farm Bureau on this exciting milestone.” “The American Farm Bureau has worked tirelessly for 100 years to foster growth for all sectors of agriculture in Georgia and across the United States,” said Senator Isakson. “The American Farm Bureau is currently led by a great Georgian, Zippy Duvall, who has been a staunch advocate for agriculture and farming in our state. I’m proud to join my Senate colleagues in recognizing this achievement, and I commend the American Farm Bureau on reaching this important milestone. Here’s to another 100 years of success!” Background: Founded in 1919, the American Farm Bureau Federation is an independent, non-governmental, voluntary organization governed by and representing American farmers and ranchers whose mission is to “enhance and strengthen the lives of rural Americans and to build strong, prosperous agricultural communities.” Zippy Duvall, a Greensboro, GA native, was elected president of the American Farm Bureau Federation in January 2016. Contributing an annual $73 billion to Georgia’s economy, agriculture is the state’s leading industry. Additionally, Georgia is home to a larger variety of agricultural industries than almost any other state. The Senate resolution recognizes the many contributions made by the American Farm Bureau Federation in helping shape agriculture policy through advocacy, education and grassroots efforts. It was introduced by Perdue, Isakson, and 48 of their Senate colleagues on January 10, 2019. Full text of the resolution is available here. ###
01.10.2019	01.10.19 Isakson, Perdue, Loudermilk Introduce Legislation to Expand Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Expansion will add to historical significance of battlefield WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11), today announced they have reintroduced legislation in both the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives to add eight acres of land to Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park in Kennesaw, Georgia. The expansion would include the historic Wallis House and Harriston Hill, and the additional acreage is expected to be donated to the park. “Expanding the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill will add to the historical significance of the park by giving visitors an opportunity to experience key strategies and positions of troops during the Civil War,” said Senator Isakson. “I hope both the House and Senate will act quickly to allow this expansion.” “The Wallis House and Harriston Hill have rich historical significance to Georgia and the entire country,” said Senator Perdue. “Expanding the park boundaries to include these properties will give park visitors a full picture of the battleground’s history. I’m proud to join my fellow Georgians in working to preserve our state’s history.” “The eight acres of property this bill will preserve at Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park might be small in size, but they are rich in Georgia history,” said Congressman Loudermilk. “That is why I’ve introduced this bill in the House for a third consecutive Congress. I thank my fellow Georgian and colleague, Senator Isakson, for introducing this bill again in the Senate, and I look forward to this bipartisan legislation getting across the finish line so Georgians and tourists can learn about this historical piece of land for generations.” The Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act authorizes the National Park Service to acquire the land in question from willing landowners by donation, purchase or exchange. The eight acres that will be added to the park have already been purchased by Cobb County and the Cobb Land Trust for the purposes of donating it to the National Park Service. Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park protects Kennesaw Mountain and Kolb’s Farm, which are Civil War battle sites along the route of General Sherman’s 1864 campaign to take Atlanta. The Wallis House is one of the few remaining structures from the battle and its inclusion will provide visitors with a unique perspective of the park’s historical significance. Expanding the park to include these additional eight acres will more effectively convey the magnitude of the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain. The park attracts more than two million visitors a year and set a record attendance in 2017, the most recent year with data available. The legislation was previously introduced in the 113th, 114th, and 115th sessions of Congress, and U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Jody Hice (R-GA-10), and Hank Johnson (D-GA-04) joined in introducing the 2019 legislation. ###
01.10.2019	01.10.19 Isakson, Perdue, Bishop, Loudermilk, Scott Reintroduce Legislation to Create National Historical Park in Middle Georgia Continue efforts to expand, preserve Ocmulgee Mounds WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and David Perdue (R-GA), along with U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11), and Austin Scott (R-GA-08), today announced they are continuing their efforts to expand and preserve the Ocmulgee National Monument in Macon, Georgia for future generations. The members reintroduced the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act to expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to approximately 2,800 acres and change its name to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park.” The legislation also authorizes a resources study to evaluate potential future park expansions, which would further protect vulnerable land and allow visitors more opportunities for recreational activities. “I’m glad to continue our efforts to ensure that Ocmulgee National Monument becomes a Georgia national historical park,” said Senator Johnny Isakson. “I’m optimistic that both the House and the Senate will soon pass this legislation to preserve the rich historical and archaeological heritage of these lands.” “The Ocmulgee National Monument is one of Georgia’s most treasured historical sites,” said Senator David Perdue. “I’m happy to continue working with Senator Isakson and my colleagues in the House to expand the site’s boundaries and designate it as a national historical park. This designation will help boost tourism in Middle Georgia and protect a piece of our state’s rich history.” “The Ocmulgee Mounds is a true cultural and archaeological treasure to Georgia and the entire nation,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “I am confident that this important bipartisan legislation will soon get across the finish line so that it will strengthen the current Ocmulgee National Monument and bolster the economy and cultural life of Georgia and beyond. I want to thank Senators Isakson and Perdue for their continued leadership on this bill.” “Expanding the Ocmulgee National Monument in Georgia to include the Ocmulgee Mounds will help preserve its historical and archaeological significance for generations to come,” said Congressman Barry Loudermilk. “This expansion will also increase visitors’ accessibility to hunt, fish, and camp in the area, which will help generate tourist revenue for the surrounding counties. Preserving lands such as these will help educate visitors on the beauty and rich history Georgia has to offer, and is a big reason why I’m an original co-sponsor of the House bill introduced by my colleague Rep. Sanford D. Bishop (D-GA).” “Ensuring that the Ocmulgee Mounds receive the historical recognition they deserve will have a lasting positive economic and cultural impact in Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “It is for our constituents in Middle Georgia that we come together in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to reintroduce this legislation that will preserve our state’s history for future generations.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, expanding Ocmulgee National Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park will be a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land as well as its unique natural and historical features. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Middle Georgia while educating visitors on the cultures that have occupied this land for thousands of years. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the ‘Old Ocmulgee Fields,’ upon which historic Indian mounds are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres, but local citizens at that time could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. Operated by the National Park Service, the role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to “present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today.” Isakson, Perdue, Bishop, and Scott previously introduced the legislation in the 113th, 114th, and 115th sessions of Congress. The measure is also supported by Macon Mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic Development Commission, and the Ocmulgee National Park & Preserve Initiative. ###
01.10.2019	01.10.19 Middle Georgia Named 2019 Great American Defense Community Award recognizes community support of service members, military families WARNER ROBINS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, congratulates Middle Georgia on being one of five communities across the country named to the 2019 class of Great American Defense Communities by the Association of Defense Communities. The award recognizes the overall support that communities and regions in the United States provide to service members and military families. Senator Perdue shared a video message at an event in Warner Robins celebrating the award. Click here to watch. “I’m so proud of Middle Georgia for being named a 2019 Great American Defense Community,” said Senator Perdue. “This special recognition is a testament to the successes that the people of Robins Air Force Base and this community have had over the last few years. For example, Middle Georgia has been able to successfully: eliminate the encroachment threat to Robins, support the Veterans Education Center, and build partnerships between the base and colleges and universities. These efforts are indicative of the community’s commitment to fulfilling the needs of not just the base, but the entire Air Force. All of this would not be possible without the leadership of General Kubinec, Colonel Drew, Chrissy Miner, and the 21st Century Partnership. To the people of Middle Georgia, thank you for all you do to support the men and women of Robins Air Force Base. I truly could not be more proud of my hometown.” “The saying in Middle Georgia, EDIMGIAFAD, Every Day in Middle Georgia is Armed Forces Appreciation Day, is more than just a saying as demonstrated daily by the partnerships the community builds to support Robins Air Force Base and their mission,” said Chrissy Miner, President and CEO of the 21st Century Partnership. “The community strives to help improve the quality of life of service members and their families and this national recognition is a credit to the work the community and installation does working with, caring for, and supporting our military community.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.09.2019	01.09.19 Senator David Perdue: This Is About National Security “President Trump knows what needs to be done to secure our borders.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins David Westin on Bloomberg TV to discuss President Trump’s address to the nation and the critical need for border security funding. Click here to watch. Highlights: Secure Our Borders: “The American people expect us to get this done. What you saw last night is the people’s President talking directly to them about what needs to be done to secure our borders.” Act Like Adults: “We have a national security crisis on the southern border. Even President Obama called it out. It’s time for people in Washington to act like adults and get this done.” National Security Crisis: “This is about national security, it is not just an immigration issue on the southern border. About 750,000 people a year are crossing the southern border illegally. To put that in perspective, we bring in about 1.1 million people legally each year. In the last two years alone, around 235,000 criminals have tried to cross the border illegally.” Democrats Supported Border Security: “Last year, Democrats in the U.S. Senate actually voted for $25 billion for border security. Since then, President Trump has agreed to $5.7 billion. Before Christmas, the President even agreed with Democrats that $1.6 billion would be an acceptable number to get started.” Real World Negotiation: “What we heard from the Democrat response was their idea of compromise is, ‘give us what we want first and then we will negotiate to give you what you are asking for.’ That’s not how negotiations work in the real world, and the Democrats know that.” Broken Funding Process: “First of all, Congress should have handled the border security situation last year. We are already in the fourth month of the fiscal year we are still trying to fund. Second, the Senate worked through August last year and completed 75% of the federal government’s discretionary funding for the first time in 22 years. This smacks of the dysfunction in Washington’s funding process.” ###
01.08.2019	01.08.19 Senator David Perdue Continues Push For Constitutional Term Limits “We need more citizen legislators, not career politicians.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) continues push for a Constitutional Amendment to impose term limits on Members of Congress. “We need more citizen legislators, not career politicians. The rise of career politicians has created the constant gridlock crippling Washington,” said Senator Perdue. “Term limits for Members of Congress are long overdue and still one on my top priorities in the United States Senate. As the outsider in the belly of the beast, I firmly believe term limits will help keep elected officials focused on getting results, and less on their own political self-interests.” Click here for full text of Senator Perdue’s amendment introduced with U.S. Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Mike Lee (R-UT). Background: Senator Perdue first introduced term limits on January 6, 2015 and has since introduced this proposal in every Congress. In July 2015, Senator Perdue wrote an op-ed for the Augusta Chronicle calling for the return of citizen legislators. In October 2016, Senator Perdue penned an op-ed in the Daily Signal pushing for elected officials to focus on results rather than elections.
01.07.2019	01.07.19 Senator David Perdue Announces Committee Assignments For 116th Congress Perdue To Continue Serving On Armed Services, Banking, Budget, Agriculture Committees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) announces he will continue serving on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees in the 116th Congress. Senator Perdue’s role on these influential committees puts him at the intersection of solving our national debt and global security crises. On the Armed Services Committee, Senator Perdue fully supports our national defense priorities: “The women and men who serve in uniform represent the very best of America. It is our responsibility to make sure our troops have the tools they need to defend our nation against evolving threats. In order to rebuild our military after years of disinvestment, we must continue to modernize our capabilities, improve readiness, and increase accountability at the Department of Defense.” Required Department of Defense to complete a full audit for the first time in history Supported Army Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon and Advanced Battle Management System at Robins Air Force Base Hosted Strategic Military Advisory Group meetings with leaders from each of Georgia’s military communities On the Banking Committee, Senator Perdue is working to improve our financial system: “Overregulation has sucked the very life out of our free-enterprise system. By rolling back confusing and often contradictory regulations, and undoing the most onerous parts of Dodd-Frank, we’ve begun freeing up trapped capital and started to put it to work in our economy. These efforts are making banks work for average Americans and generating much-needed economic growth to help solve our national debt crisis.” Led bipartisan rollback of Dodd-Frank regulations Protected consumers’ personal information gathered by the CFPB On the Budget Committee, Senator Perdue is fighting to fix Washington’s broken funding process: “Washington is locked in a cycle of continuing resolutions and last-minute spending deals. This is totally irresponsible. We need a politically-neutral platform to fund the government on time, every year. Fixing the funding process alone will not solve our debt crisis, but we won’t solve this debt crisis until we fix our broken funding process.” Offered solutions to change Congress’s funding process in Joint Select Committee for Budget and Appropriations Process Reform Wrote “Outsider’s Guide to the Federal Budget” outlining ideas to fix the budget process On the Agriculture Committee, Senator Perdue is a strong voice for Georgia’s farmers: “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. Growing up working on my family’s farm, I learned at an early age that agriculture is not just a business – it's a way of life. To keep thriving, our farm families need more certainty from Washington and fewer rules and regulations.” Secured provisions important to Georgia’s agriculture community in the 2018 Farm Bill Traveled across Georgia to visit farmers, foresters, and researchers with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue Held listening sessions to hear directly from farmers and the agriculture community ###
01.03.2019	01.03.19 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Senate Confirmation Of Yeager As U.S. Marshal Confirmed to Georgia’s Northern District office ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) applauded the Senate confirmation of Michael C. Yeager of Moreland, Georgia as U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Georgia on Wednesday. “Sheriff Yeager has decades of experience in many facets of law enforcement, and his wisdom and expertise in the field will serve him well as U.S. Marshal,” said Senator Isakson. “The Senate has made a wise decision, and I congratulate Sheriff Yeager on his new role and thank him for his service.” “Georgia is home to some of the most impressive law enforcement officers in the nation,” said Senator Perdue. “President Trump made an excellent choice in selecting Sheriff Michael Yeager for U.S. Marshal. Congratulations to Sheriff Yeager on his confirmation. I know he will continue to serve Georgia and the nation well.” Yeager has served as the sheriff of Coweta County, Georgia since his election to the position in 1993. He has nearly four decades of law enforcement experience, beginning as a patrolman with the Newnan Police Department in 1980. Yeager is the current chairman of the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, serves on the Board of the Georgia Department of Community Supervision and serves as a member of the state’s Immigration Enforcement Review Board. He is an active member and past president of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association and a past president of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Youth Homes. Yeager currently serves as president of the Constitutional Officers Association of Georgia, which includes all current sheriffs, probate judges, tax commissioners and superior/state court clerks of Georgia. In 2006, Yeager received both the Georgia Sheriff of the Year Award and the Governor’s Public Safety Award for Outstanding Contribution to Profession. Yeager was nominated by President Trump on June 7, 2018.
01.01.2019	01.01.19 Senator David Perdue: 2018 In Photos ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) shares highlights from 2018: Click here to download the full gallery. 1. March 29, 2018 – Standing on the Broken Bridge in Dandong, China and looking across to North Korea. 2. May 10, 2018 – Discussing the debt crisis with Washington Post’s Erica Werner at the Peterson Foundation’s Fiscal Summit. 3. May 15, 2018 – Urging the Senate to cancel its scheduled August recess in order to confirm President Trump’s nominees and fund the government before the end of the fiscal year. By working through August, the Senate passed 87% of government funding bills and confirmed 43 nominees. Watch a video about this here. 4. May 16, 2018 – Snapping a selfie with a group of Georgians visiting Washington, D.C. 5. May 24, 2018 – Joining President Trump at the White House for the signing of the bipartisan Dodd-Frank rollback bill. (Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead) 6. July 13, 2018 – Touring Lewis Taylor Farms in Tifton, Georgia with owner Bill Brim and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue. Watch a recap video of the tour here. 7. July 13, 2018 – Sharing a laugh with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue at the White Diamond Grill in Bonaire, Georgia. 8. July 19, 2018 – Meeting with Judge Brett Kavanaugh, who the Senate later confirmed as an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Watch a video recap here. 9. August 3, 2018 – Touring the Anheuser-Busch brewery in Cartersville, Georgia and meeting with employees. 10. August 9, 2018 – Visiting Vogtle Electric Generating Plant in Waynesboro, Georgia to see construction on Vogtle Units 3 and 4. 11. August 9, 2018 – Visiting Fort Gordon to receive a cybersecurity briefing, tour the facility, and meet with personnel. 12. August 15, 2018 – Joining Brigadier General John Kubinec, commander of Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex, in announcing the “1200 in 12” initiative to hire 1,200 new employees at Robins Air Force Base in the next 12 months. Watch Senator Perdue’s remarks here. 13. September 25, 2018 – Meeting with Denzel Washington about the work Boys & Girls Clubs of America does to help youth across the country reach their full potential. 14. October 16, 2018 – Joining Vice President Mike Pence in Albany, Moultrie, and Bainbridge, Georgia to visit farmers and producers who were devastated by Hurricane Michael. 15. November 1, 2018 – Stopping for lunch at Chick-fil-A in Grovetown, Georgia with Vice President Mike Pence, Brian Kemp, and Geoff Duncan. (Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks)
12.23.2018	12.23.18 Senator David Perdue: This Is The Second Schumer Shutdown This Year “Let’s fully fund this government, secure our border, and provide disaster relief for the people who are in need right now.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the U.S. Senate floor about the second Schumer Shutdown and ongoing negotiations to fully fund the federal government, including critical funding for border protection and disaster relief. Currently, most of the government remains open and essential services continue, including: federal law enforcement, TSA screening, payments to veterans, Medicare, Medicaid, SNAP benefits, and USPS mail delivery. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Second Schumer Shutdown: “Republicans and Democrats had a deal earlier this week with $1.6 billion for border security. That deal was taken away. We are now experiencing the second Schumer Shutdown this year.” Ready To Make A Deal: “This President has shown over and over again that he is workable with our colleagues across the aisle to find a common solution that we can all live with. He’s ready to make a deal today.” Time To Get This Done: “The U.S. House sent a bill back to the Senate that included not only border security funding, but also a serious disaster relief package for hurricane and wildfire victims. The U.S. Senate should have included President Trump’s priorities from the very beginning. Now this body has the chance to do the right thing. It’s time to get this done.” 75% Complete: “This year, the U.S. Senate and House did something for the first time in 22 years, and that was fund at least 75% of our federal government on time by September 30. We are here at the end of the first quarter of our next fiscal year still trying to fund the last 25% because of this controversy over the border wall.” 44 Democrats: “The flow of human trafficking at our borders is completely unacceptable. Everybody in this body agrees with that, demonstrated by the fact that 44 Democrats actually voted for a $25 billion border security package earlier this year. There is no way the Democrats can avoid admitting that. This has to stop. The undampened flow of illegal drugs has created a crisis in our country.” Totally Unacceptable “The fact that some members of Congress are more concerned with politics in Washington than stopping human trafficking across our borders is totally unacceptable. An open border goes against the very ideas of why our country was founded. It totally undercuts American sovereignty. The American people know that, and they are fed up with the status quo. I can tell you firsthand, so is President Donald Trump.” Democrats Prefer Open Borders: “The Democrats have been very clear in demonstrating they prefer open borders, illegal drug transfers, and human trafficking over commonsense protection of our southern border.” Fighting For America: “President Trump is leading right now in his first responsibility, and that is to protect every citizen of the United States of America. He’s fighting for the American people.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.21.2018	12.21.18 Senator David Perdue: President Trump Is Willing To Negotiate “This is all about Democrats actually backing up from negotiated agreements that they’ve had in the last week.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Fox News to discuss this morning’s White House meeting with President Trump and the funding package that includes border security and disaster relief for Georgia. Click here to watch. Transcript: “We heard a President today that’s willing to negotiate, and we’ve also seen that over the last five to seven days. This is all about the Democrats actually backing up from negotiated agreements that they’ve had in the last week. The President’s still willing to deal, but what we should being doing right now is what we will do: go to the Senate floor and do what the House did last night and vote this bill.”
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Senator David Perdue: It's Time To Get The Job Done "We now have funding for the border wall and disaster relief for the people of Georgia" WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) encourages his Senate colleagues to support the funding package that now includes $5 billion for the border wall and $8 billion for disaster relief:“It’s time to get the job done. No one wants a last-minute continuing resolution, but the President’s priorities should have always been included. We now have funding for the border wall and disaster relief for the people of Georgia and many other states who are hurting from historic hurricanes and wildfires. The Senate should have done this from the start. Now, let’s get this package to President Trump.”Watch Senator Perdue’s speech calling out Congress for previously failing to address the President’s priorities.
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Funding & Trade on CNBC “This is another example of the total irresponsibility and dysfunction in Washington” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined CNBC’s Squawk Box to discuss the economy and Washington’s failure to fully fund the government on time. Click here to watch. Highlights: Funding Failure: “This is another example of the total irresponsibility and dysfunction in Washington. This is the end of the first quarter. We’re still talking about the funding for the last fiscal year. This should have been done on September 30th. We have 75% of the federal government’s discretionary budget funded so far this year, and the politicians here think that’s good enough. Unfortunately, it isn’t nearly good enough.” 186: “This is the 186th continuing resolution since 1974 when the Budget Act was put in place. We can do better than this.” Build The Wall: “This is more of a political issue for Democrats than it is a national security issue, which is what President Trump is calling out. Over the last few weeks, President Trump demonstrated that he’s very workable on different ways not only to fund the border wall, but also on different amounts that he needs to get it done. Bottom line this is a national security issue.” Stop Kicking The Can: “This is the time that we should force Democrats to negotiate. I believe kicking the can down the road does two things. It put us under pressure internationally with our partners about how serious we are about defending our own border, but the second thing it does is it delays starting next year’s budgeting and appropriations process. The irony is that by delaying until February 8th, we will only have 57 working days until July 31st, which is when we really have to get next year’s appropriating done, and I’m very skeptical of being able to do that.” Sense Of Urgency: “I believe that we’ve got to come back right after Christmas to finish funding the government. We’re talking about potentially coming back in the latter part of next week to get this done in the Senate.” Trade Momentum: “We’ve got momentum in the trade conversation. Look at what this President has done. We have NATO partners agreeing to increase the payments for their own national security. That’s a big deal. We have Canada and Mexico finalizing a new trade agreement, South Korea has an updated free trade agreement, Japan has been in trade discussions, and now we have a potential off ramp with China.” Getting Results: “People sent us here to get things done. The reason I ran for the U.S. Senate is because of the dysfunction in Washington. The global security crisis was getting worse and this financial crisis is very real with $21 trillion of debt. We have to deal with that. Right now, this President has got the economy moving. We’re dealing with the budget process. We’re attacking wasteful spending. We have the first DOD audit in U.S. history.” Major Problem: “If the U.S. House of Representatives, under Democratic leadership, decides that they’re going to investigate only, not legislate, that’s going to be a major problem for America, and I hope they don’t do that.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Senator David Perdue: Another Continuing Resolution Is Totally Unacceptable “This does nothing to address disaster relief for the people of Georgia who have been devastated by historic hurricanes.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the U.S. Senate floor about Congress again failing to fully fund the federal government or address much-needed disaster relief funding. Click here to watch. Highlights: Absolute Embarrassment: “The U.S. Senate should have already fully funded the federal government's discretionary budget by September 30 of this year. That was three months ago.” 186th Continuing Resolution: “This will be the 186th continuing resolution that Congress has used to fund government in a temporary manner. I have a major problem with that.” Does Nothing On Disaster Relief: “It’s incredibly disappointing that this continuing resolution does nothing to address disaster relief funding for the people of Florida, Georgia, the Carolinas, Alabama, or California, who have been devastated by historic wildfires and hurricanes.” Democrats Are Not Being Genuine: “President Trump wants to help these farmers and the people in California who have been devastated by these fires. He has said so repeatedly. The President said, ‘Farmers really got hurt, especially here in Georgia. But we're going to get it taken care of.’ There's no question the President of the United States wants to make good on that promise. The problem is he's dealing with another party that's not being genuine in their effort to find a solution to the funding issue right now.” Finish The Job Now, Not February: “I fully believe the United States Senate should be back in Washington the day after Christmas to debate this, to get some compromise in order to protect the strategic industry of agriculture.” No More Drama: “It is very clear that this continuing resolution is improper. It should not be done, and it puts the people who have been devastated by hurricanes and wildfires at risk. Going forward, we need to find a way to create a politically-neutral platform to fund this government on time, every year, without all this drama.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.18.2018	12.18.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Bipartisan First Step Act “Makes our federal justice system fairer to all Americans, while maintaining severe deterrents to criminal behavior” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) votes for the improved version of the First Step Act: “The improved First Step Act will make our federal criminal justice system fairer to all Americans, while maintaining severe deterrents to criminal behavior. After working closely with the Trump Administration to make several improvements to the bill, I am proud to cosponsor the First Step Act. President Trump and Chairman Grassley have led this good faith effort to bring equity and reason to our justice system, along with Congressman Doug Collins who championed this in the U.S. House of Representatives. For years, Georgia has been leading the nation in reducing recidivism, providing drug rehabilitation, and increasing job training opportunities in our state prison system. This bipartisan effort is a model for breaking through the gridlock in Washington and actually getting things done.” Senator Perdue worked with the Trump Administration and bill sponsors to secure several major improvements to the final text of the First Step Act before announcing support for the bill. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.14.2018	12.14.18 Senators Perdue, Isakson Honor 40th Anniversary Of Kings Bay Resolution Recognizing Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay Passes Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) applaud Senate passage of a resolution honoring the 40th anniversary of Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, which was established on July 1, 1978, in Kings Bay, Georgia. “Congratulations to Kings Bay and the Camden County community on this major milestone,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “As home to the Atlantic fleet of the Ohio-class submarine, Kings Bay plays an integral role in our national defense and strategic deterrence. It’s an honor to help recognize The Camden Partnership and the coastal Georgia community for their strong support of Kings Bay through the years. As they say, ‘every day in Camden County is military appreciation day.’” “Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay is a critical player in our nuclear deterrence strategy, which is key to our national defense and to protecting Americans from the threat of nuclear war,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I’m proud that the Senate has recognized this incredible Georgia-based installation and the men and women who work there each day as we celebrate its 40th anniversary this year.” “There is a close knit relationship between Kings Bay and the Camden County community,” said Sheila M. McNeill, President of The Camden Partnership. “We are proud to be a part of this great base and honored to help celebrate its 40 successful years. The Sailors, Marines, and Coast Guard who are stationed here are an integral part of this community, and it gives us all great pride to support the Defense Department’s number one mission." In 1954, the U.S. Army began to build a military ocean terminal to ship ammunition in case of a national emergency. Since there was no immediate operational need for the installation, the base was placed in an inactive ready status. After evaluating more than 60 sites along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, the U.S. Navy selected Kings Bay as the new home of Submarine Squadron 16. The base was transferred from the Army to the Navy, and on July 1, 1978, Naval Submarine Support Base Kings Bay was established in a developmental status. Today, Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay is home to six ballistic missile submarines and two guided missile submarines. Kings Bay is responsible for $1,142,000,000 in total economic output to the Camden County area. In 2007, Kings Bay was named the top military installation in the Department of Defense. Read the full text of the resolution here. ###
12.13.2018	12.13.18 Senator Perdue, Congressman Scott Secure Funding For HBCU Agriculture Scholarships Included In 2018 Farm Bill, Which Now Heads To President Trump’s Desk To Become Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Representative David Scott (D-GA-13), both members of the Bipartisan Congressional Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus, have secured funding in the 2018 Farm Bill for agriculture-focused scholarships at Historically Black Land-Grant Colleges and Universities across the country. “As a member of the HBCU Caucus, one of my top priorities is increasing opportunities for all students to pursue the skills they need to succeed,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. In order to secure the future of farming in Georgia and across the country, we have to find ways to encourage diverse and qualified leadership and ownership in our agricultural community. These scholarships will help young farmers become the nation’s next agriculture leaders. I am very grateful for Congressman Scott’s commitment and perseverance in supporting our HBCUs in Georgia.” “This is Historic. A glorious example of bipartisanship, Democrats and Republicans, working together,” said Congressman Scott, member of the House Agriculture Committee. “I am especially proud of the $80M we have secured in funding for new scholarships for students attending the 19 African American 1890’s land-grant colleges and universities across the nation. These scholarships will play a critical role in providing greater assistance for beginning farmers, and providing financial scholarships to bring more young people of all races who attend these outstanding universities for careers in the wonderful, and exciting, and growing world of agriculture businesses. I thank Senator David Perdue for his help getting the scholarships in the Senate bill. This is a great blessing from God and we are thankful.” Background on the amendment secured by Senator Perdue and Congressman Scott: In the Second Morrill Act of 1890, the 1890s Land grant institutions must receive funding through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) every 5 years. Currently, these funds can be used for three purposes: research, education, and extension as authorized by the Farm Bill. Senator Perdue and Congressman Scott’s amendment will add a fourth purpose – student scholarships – and will provide an additional $19 million dollars of funding annually for the 19 Historically Black Land-Grant colleges and universities. The additional funds will be distributed by USDA and will apply to students with agriculture-focused studies, such as agribusiness, food production, distribution and retailing, clothing industries, and farming in marketing, finance, and distribution. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.13.2018	12.13.18 Columbus Post Office To Be Named After Fort Benning Unit Effort Led By Senators Perdue and Isakson, Congressmen Bishop and Ferguson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02) and Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03), applaud House and Senate passage of their bill to designate a United States Post Office in Columbus, Georgia, as the “Richard W. Williams, Jr., Chapter of the Triple Nickles (555th P.I.A.) Post Office.” This bill was introduced in honor of Columbus-area veterans who served in military units that originated from the Army’s first all-black parachute unit, which was activated at Fort Benning in December 1943. After passing the Senate on November 15, 2018 and the House on December 11, 2018, the bill now heads to President Trump’s desk to become law. “The Triple Nickles, America’s first all-black parachute group, went above and beyond the call of duty, serving in more airborne units than any other parachute group in history,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “They trained at Fort Benning and remain a key part of Georgia’s proud military tradition. Columbus and the Fort Benning community have always embraced our veterans and their families, and we are honored to recognize their service with this fitting tribute.” “As the nation’s first all-black parachute unit, the heroes of the 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion courageously protected and defended our country throughout the 20th century, and this post office will demonstrate our thanks to the Triple Nickles Unit for their selfless actions and distinguished service,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I am honored to join my fellow Georgians and colleagues in Congress in honoring 555th Triple Nickles Parachute Infantry Battalion,” said Congressman Bishop. “The 555th Triple Nickles Parachute Infantry Battalion was the Army’s first African-American parachute unit that was commanded by Captain Richard W. Williams, Jr. These brave men persevered through the most challenging training during the most trying times of our nation. Despite racism on the home front, they persisted and overcame every hardship and challenge that came their way in service of our nation. They remain American heroes and pioneers on behalf of many African-Americans that followed in service.” “Under Captain Richard W. Williams’s leadership, the 555th Triple Nickles Parachute Infantry Battalion bravely defended our nation during World War II,” said Congressman Ferguson. “It is an honor to be a part of the effort to honor their legacy, and I am proud of the Georgia delegation’s work to commemorate the Triple Nickles’ service and sacrifice. I look forward to seeing President Trump sign this bill into law.” The 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, commonly known as the Triple Nickles, was deactivated in December 1947, and its members went on to serve in other military units during the Korean War. Notably, many members of the Triple Nickles also went on to form the Army’s first and only all-black Ranger unit, the 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, which trained at Fort Benning and saw action in the Korean War. Ultimately, members of the Triple Nickles served in more airborne units, in peace and war, than any other parachute group in history. The Richard W. Williams, Jr., Chapter of the Triple Nickles currently has a membership of approximately 61 veterans in Columbus, Georgia, and the surrounding area who served in various military units that were built from the Triple Nickles, including the 173rd Airborne, 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, 1st Cavalry Division, and the 24th Infantry Division. The Post Office to be renamed is located at 120 12th Street Lobby, Columbus, Georgia. View the bill here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Senator David Perdue Acts To Protect Farmers and Businesses’ Private Data Introduces Bills To Protect Intellectual Property WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of both the Senate Agriculture and Banking Committees, is taking action to require government regulators to prove a need before they copy and store data from private individuals and businesses. The Protection of Source Code Act(s) would require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Consumer Finance Trade Commission (CFTC) to obtain a court subpoena in order to make a business disclose their trading algorithms. These algorithms and other intellectual property are the foundation of many companies. If that information is hacked or becomes public, then the company loses the entirety of their business. “After recent hacks of government agencies and businesses, it is irresponsible for the federal government to needlessly collect private data,” said Senator Perdue. “In the business world, unique trading algorithms give companies their competitive edge. An entire farming operation or small business could be devastated if their intellectual property is compromised in a cybersecurity breach. It’s clear federal government regulators should be required to obtain a subpoena to access this kind of sensitive data.” Background: In 2015, the CFTC issued a proposed rule that would require companies to provide their proprietary source code data at the request of CFTC staff. This proposal raised concerns because of the confidentiality of source code data to their trading algorithms. Additional concerns were raised that the SEC would issue a similar rule. In 2017, the SEC’s EDGAR system was hacked, raising concerns about the commission’s cybersecurity capabilities. This bill preempts any effort by the SEC to compel individuals to surrender their source code, protecting companies’ intellectual property from misappropriation or cyber theft. Similar language passed the House of Representatives on February 14, 2018. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.11.2018	12.11.18 2018 Farm Bill Passes Senate, One Step Closer To President Trump’s Desk Senator Perdue Gets Results For Georgia Farmers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, secured numerous provisions important to Georgia in the final negotiations of the 2018 Farm Bill. “Getting a good Farm Bill across the finish line is critical for rural communities in Georgia and around the country,” said Senator Perdue. “This bill ensures America’s agriculture industry will continue to be a strategic industry for years to come. It preserves programs that have helped Georgia farmers deal with low commodity prices without increasing spending levels. Growing up working on my family’s farm, I learned at an early age that agriculture is not just a business – it's a way of life for many people across our country. This Farm Bill is an important investment in our farmers, ranchers, rural communities, and agribusinesses, as well as our national security. “While this Farm Bill is a good start, it’s not perfect. It fails to make commonsense changes that would help put Americans receiving food assistance back to work. However, I am encouraged by the willingness of President Trump and Agriculture Secretary Perdue to deal with this issue. While I am disappointed that disaster relief funding for peach and blueberry growers was removed, I am encouraged that it will be addressed in the remaining funding bills. Ultimately, I am pleased that many Georgia priorities that were not included in the Senate bill were addressed in the final product. Balancing the needs of every commodity and region is not an easy task, and this Farm Bill will still provide much needed certainty to our farmers in Georgia and across the country.” Senator Perdue secured the following provisions important to Georgia’s agriculture community: Protects Peanut And Cotton Farmers: Protects critical programs for Georgia’s top two commodities by preserving existing safety nets. Supports All Members Of Farming Operations: Eliminates a flawed provision that would have limited certain family members from being considered “actively engaged” in the farm operation based on management. This would have hurt many Georgia family farms ineligible for farm program participation. Extends Support For Textiles: Prolongs funding to ensure American textile mills can compete globally. Helps Pecan Growers Compete: Provides for the assessment of imported pecans so that foreign producers pay the same assessment fee as U.S. pecan growers. Cracks Down On SNAP Fraud: Puts in place a verification system to prevent individuals from receiving payments in more than one state at the same time. Verifies SNAP Recipients: Initiates a pilot program to verify earned income at the time of certification and recertification. Connects Georgia’s National Forests: Includes Senator Perdue’s Chattahoochee Oconee Land Adjustment Act, which gives U.S. Forest Service the tools they need to create a more contiguous National Forest. Encourages Self-Sufficiency: Eliminates unnecessary subsidy on all rural development loan programs to allow programs to become self-sufficient and save U.S. Treasury approximately $50 million per year. Establishes Agriculture Scholarships: Creates a scholarship program for students attending Historically Black Land-Grant Institutions who want to pursue a career in the agriculture industry. Gives Flexibility To Land-Grant Schools: Allows land-grant universities, like Fort Valley State, to carry over unused grant funds from year to year through the Carryover Equity Act. Advances Timber Industry: Establishes performance driven research and development programs for advancing new and innovative wood construction materials. Prioritizes Turf Grass Research: Adds Turf Grass Research to the list of high priority research at colleges and universities. Strengthens Rural Cybersecurity: Allows rural utilities to use certain electric loans and loan guarantees from U.S. Department of Agriculture to fund improvements to grid security and cybersecurity. Requests Critical Data: Establishes a report with necessary data to protect human and animal health against possible threats posed by imported dogs. Supports New Farmers: Allows Farm Service Agency, which loans to disadvantaged and new farmers, to increase its loan authority during years when the demand for FSA loans unexpectedly exceeds its cap. Adds Cushions Of Credit: Balances the needs of taxpayers and electric cooperatives by ensuring that rates continue to stay competitive. The Farm Bill gradually phases out this program to provide savings. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Senator David Perdue On Trump Administration’s Rollback Of Water Overregulation “President Trump knows the last thing farmers need is more bureaucracy” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, comments on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineer’s new proposal to reduce federal regulations on water resources and replace President Obama’s overreaching Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “This is a huge win for farmers, businesses, ranchers, and landowners in Georgia and across the country,” said Senator Perdue. “President Trump knows the last thing farmers need is more bureaucracy and invasion of their privacy rights. The EPA’s new rule will get Washington out of the way and end years of uncertainty by simply defining where water regulations apply and where they do not. This is a welcome change from the blatant overreach of President Obama’s ridiculous WOTUS rule.” Click here for the rule proposal. Background on Senator Perdue’s work to provide relief for Georgia farmers and landowners: April 2015 – Senator Perdue co-sponsored legislation to stop implementation of the EPA’s overreaching WOTUS rule. November 2015 – Georgia farmers and agriculture leaders urged Congress to overturn WOTUS. February 2017 – Senator Perdue applauded President Trump’s executive order to reverse the WOTUS rule. June 2017 – Senator Perdue praised the Trump Administration’s action to roll back WOTUS. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.10.2018	12.10.18 Senator David Perdue Announces Support For Improved First Step Act Offers Solutions To Strengthen Criminal Justice System WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) announces his support for the improved version of the First Step Act: “The First Step Act is a bipartisan solution that will improve our criminal justice system at the federal level. After working closely with the Trump Administration, we were able to address several concerns that I have had with certain provisions. For years, Georgia has been leading the nation in reducing recidivism, providing drug rehabilitation, and increasing job training opportunities in our state prison system. These efforts are clearly paying dividends in our state, and we now have an opportunity to make similar changes at the federal level. The improved First Step Act will help make our federal prison system fair to all, while still providing severe deterrents to criminal behavior. President Trump and Chairman Grassley deserve a great deal of credit for their work to bring equity and reason to our justice system, along with Congressman Doug Collins who spearheaded the effort in the U.S. House of Representatives.” Senator Perdue secured the following improvements to the First Step Act: Removes the ability of judges to unilaterally make offenders with serious criminal records eligible for reduced sentences Ensures serious violent offenders cannot take advantage of time credits toward pre-release custody ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Welcome Federal Investment in Georgia Highway System Applaud U.S. Department of Transportation grant awarded for SR 316, SR 11 interchange project ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) that Georgia’s highway system will receive a federal grant to assist with an interchange project in Barrow County, GA. The Georgia Department of Transportation will receive an award of $24,821,050 for a project at the intersection of State Route 316 (SR 316)/U.S. Route 29 and State Route 11 (SR 11) to improve traffic flow and accommodate future widening of SR 316. An estimated 30,000 cars and trucks travel along SR 316 daily, and nearly 10,000 cars a day pass through the intersection on SR 11. A bridge will be built to allow SR 316 traffic to continue over SR 11. The work on SR 11 will extend for approximately 0.4 miles. On SR 316, the work will span approximately 1.1 miles. This construction investment is made available through USDOT’s Better Utilizing Investment to Leverage Development (BUILD) grants program. “This investment is welcome news for the thousands of Georgians who commute daily on Highway 316 where there is increased congestion caused by tremendous growth in the area,” said Senator Isakson. “I was glad to help support this project, which will improve traffic flow and safety. I appreciate the attention and leadership shown by Secretary Chao and President Trump to prioritize Americans’ needs through investments in our infrastructure that will help hardworking families and our economy.” “As a business guy, President Trump knows the federal government needs to prioritize infrastructure projects that will have the greatest return on investment,” said Senator Perdue. “Thousands of Georgians travel on Highway 316 every day, and this project will help reduce traffic delays, while supporting the additional growth in the area. President Trump and Secretary Chao continue to make Georgia’s infrastructure needs a priority.” “The Georgia Department of Transportation is truly grateful to the USDOT for providing Georgia a $24.8M BUILD grant to build an interchange at SR 316 and SR 11 in Barrow County,” said Georgia Department of Transportation Commissioner Russell McMurry. “This grant is significant and aids in our efforts to improve safety and operations along SR 316 from I-85 to Athens while enhancing quality of life and Georgia’s economic competitiveness along this critical corridor. The BUILD grant award also recognizes the USDOT’s focus on transportation investment in rural America. We are very grateful for the strong support of both Senators Isakson and Perdue on this project and their focus on Georgia’s transportation infrastructure.” ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Senator David Perdue Acts To Relieve Regulatory Burdens On Farmers, Business Owners WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Banking Committee, is taking action to relieve financial regulatory burdens and extra costs that are passed down to small business owners, farmers, and consumers. After the 2008-2009 financial crisis, federal bank regulators were driven to increase the amount of capital held by banks for certain “risky” activities. This included the supplemental leverage ratio (SLR), which requires banks to hold a certain amount of capital. The SLR did not account for the initial margin that customers pay. As a result, duplicative capital buffers were built as banks had to hold additional capital aside. The cost of this trapped capital was ultimately passed onto the end users – such as farmers and business owners. “This regulatory relief is long overdue,” said Senator Perdue. “Following the 2008-2009 financial crisis, capital requirements were raised to help banks mitigate risk. However, this particular regulation went too far and created additional costs for American business owners, farmers, and consumers. Fixing this unintended consequence will provide much-needed relief and free up capital for our main street economy.” Background: Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Chairman Christopher Giancarlo estimated that addressing the leverage ratio treatment of initial margin would reduce bank capital by only 1%. However, this would reduce clearing capital costs by 70% and promote additional market activity. Former CFTC Chairman Timothy Massad expressed concern with industry consolidation increasing systemic risk, saying, “If some clearing members choose to limit customers, or get out of the clearing business altogether, that may make it harder to deal with the next time a clearing member defaults.” On March 21, 2018, the House Financial Services Committee voted to advance this bill, which was introduced by Congressmen Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO-3) and David Scott (D-GA-13). Click here for the full bill text. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.04.2018	12.04.18 Senator David Perdue Brings Together Georgia HBCUs & Business Leaders Hosts Roundtable With Morehouse College President ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Congressional Bipartisan Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus, hosted a breakfast and roundtable discussion with Dr. David A. Thomas, President of Morehouse College, and Georgia business leaders. Roundtable attendees included Klaus Zellmer, CEO of Porsche North America, Steve Hennessey of Hennessey Auto, presidents of the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce and Georgia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and senior leadership from UPS, Aflac, and 1908 Capital. Click here to download photos. “Morehouse is one of the top five HBCUs in the country, and I’m proud of the work they do to develop young men into tomorrow’s leaders,” said Senator Perdue. “As a member of the HBCU Caucus, one of my top priorities is increasing engagement between the business community and our education centers. By working together, we can build a more diverse and qualified workforce, while providing students with the mentorship and support they need to succeed. We had an open and candid conversation between President Thomas and Georgia business leaders. I appreciate everyone coming to the table to share their insight and ideas, and I am encouraged about the future of Morehouse and its contributions to Georgia and our country.” “I am appreciative of the personal support Senator Perdue has shown me since I arrived in Atlanta to become President of Morehouse College,” said President Thomas. “Monday’s hosted breakfast with members of the business community was just one more example of his commitment to seeing Morehouse and the entire Atlanta University Center thrive.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.01.2018	12.01.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President George H.W. Bush ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the passing of President George H.W. Bush: “Bonnie and I join the nation in mourning the loss of President George H.W. Bush. As a World War II aviator, member of Congress, CIA Director, Ambassador, Vice President, and Commander in Chief, President Bush dedicated his life to serving our country. He was a skilled leader who showed tireless dedication to our nation during some of our most trying times. George and Barbara Bush’s sacrifice, service, and love for our country was unmatched. Bonnie and I send heartfelt prayers to President George W. Bush and the entire Bush family during this very difficult time.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.30.2018	11.30.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Continue Efforts To Aid Georgia Recovery From Hurricane Michael Request additional disaster funding for agriculture ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) continued their efforts to support Georgians recovering from Hurricane Michael with a direct appeal to Senate leadership urging support for disaster assistance for Georgia farmers and the state’s agriculture community. In a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Isakson and Perdue requested that Congress provide supplemental disaster funding to help with recovery from billions in agricultural losses from Hurricanes Florence and Michael. Senators from other Southeastern states affected by the hurricanes also joined the letter. The letter states, “We believe it is our duty as Members of Congress to step in and assist farmers and others who are in need. We ask that as leaders of the United States Senate you direct this body to work with the House of Representatives to include emergency appropriations for those states affected by Hurricanes Florence and Michael in the next appropriations bill the Senate considers.” Hurricane Michael caused more than $2.5 billion in losses to Georgia’s agricultural industry alone. The combined losses from Hurricanes Florence and Michael cost other states additional billions in agriculture production and job losses. “Cotton was ruined during a crucial harvest period, destroying what promised to be a historically high yield. Peanuts, sweet potatoes, and a multitude of other fruits and vegetables that were not yet harvested rotted in the soil. High winds leveled acres of timber stands and pecan trees and demolished poultry, pork, and cattle barns, killing and dispersing animals and livestock,” the letter continued. Isakson and Sen. Doug Jones (D-AL) led the letter, and the senators were joined by Perdue and Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Thom Tillis (R-NC), whose states were also affected by the September and October hurricanes. Full text of the letter can be found here. Also this week, Isakson and Perdue sent a letter to Senate appropriators requesting funding for agriculture disaster assistance in the wake of Hurricane Michael. In October, Isakson and Perdue joined Vice President Mike Pence and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue in Bainbridge, Moultrie, and Albany, Georgia, to visit farmers and producers who were devastated by Hurricane Michael. ###
11.30.2018	11.30.18 Senators Perdue, Isakson Request Disaster Aid For Georgia Farmers Seek additional resources, reforms for Georgia agriculture as state recovers from Hurricane Michael ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) sent a letter to Senate appropriators requesting disaster assistance for Georgia’s agriculture industry as a result of Hurricane Michael. “Hurricane Michael caused extensive damage to Georgia and across the Southeast,” said the senators. “Georgia’s agricultural industry alone suffered more than $2.5 billion in losses. Late-season crop losses are especially devastating with the producer having already invested the vast majority of production costs into the crop. Additionally, the losses extend beyond crop damage to include buildings, equipment, irrigation pivots and other infrastructure.” “Due to the severity and timing of the losses, additional assistance is needed to allow producers to recover a portion of expenses associated with the 2018 crop and secure production financing for the 2019 crop,” continued the senators. The senators’ letter outlines critical changes that need to be made to the current disaster loss program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Additionally, it urges the inclusion of a Pecan and Specialty Crop State Block Grant Program. This would give the secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture the authority to provide assistance in the form of block grants to eligible states and may include compensation to producers for expenses such as forest restoration, vegetable plant preparation, and reimbursement for losses of pecan production expected before tree maturity. In October, Senators Perdue and Isakson joined Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue in Bainbridge, Moultrie, and Albany, Georgia, to visit farmers and producers who were devastated by Hurricane Michael. ###
11.30.2018	11.30.18 Senators Perdue, Lankford, Ernst: Political Self-Interest Prevented Changes To The Broken Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), James Lankford (R-OK), and Joni Ernst (R-IA) comment on the Joint Select Committee for Budget and Appropriations Reform: “The Joint Select Committee was our chance to make meaningful changes to Congress’ broken budget process – instead, it turned out to be a lost opportunity. This is completely irresponsible. Throughout the process we had bipartisan discussions of ideas that could have fixed the way Congress funds the federal government and addressed our debt. Most of these ideas were met with little disagreement in conversation but suddenly received major pushback when it was time to put the ideas into action. We offered amendments to end Washington’s addiction to continuing resolutions and to hold members of Congress accountable for finishing the budget job on time. This should have been commonsense, but yet again political self-interest stood in the way of significant results. After eight months of work, there is no excuse for settling for the status quo. We are committed to continuing our efforts next year to responsibly fix the federal government’s funding process.” Senators Perdue, Lankford, and Ernst introduced amendments that would have achieved the following priorities: Milestones With Consequences: Create a series of milestones for passing a budget and appropriations bills to keep Congress on track to fund the government on time. Coupled with changing the fiscal year, these milestones would provide more certainty for our military and other federal agencies. (Offered by Senator Perdue) No Budget, No Recess: If the Senate has not approved a budget and spending bills on time, then the Senate would be unable to adjourn for over eight hours; no funding would be available for official travel; and, two quorum calls would be held per day to prevent senators from leaving Washington. (Offered by Senators Ernst and Lankford) No Budget, No Travel: If the Senate has not passed a budget and appropriations bills on time, then the Senate is prevented from taking any official travel. (Offered by Senator Ernst) Change The Fiscal Year Ending From September 30 To December 31: Matching the fiscal year with the calendar year gives Congress more time to pass a budget and all of the appropriations bills. (Offered by Senator Perdue) Change Budget Committee Membership: Changes the membership of the Senate Budget Committee to be six members of the majority, five members of the minority and the chair and ranking members of the Appropriations and Finance committees. (Offered by Senators Lankford and Bennet) Establish Bipartisan Budget Resolution In Senate: Creates a separate path in the Senate for a bipartisan budget resolution. The resolution would be required to establish fiscal goals for the path of the debt- to-GDP ratio as well as a glide path for health care spending, tax expenditures, discretionary spending, and total revenues. (Offered by Senators Perdue and Whitehouse) Make The Budget A Law: Change the budget from a concurrent resolution to a joint resolution, making it require the signature of the President and carry the force of law. (Offered by Senator Perdue) Require 60 Votes: Raise the vote threshold for final passage of a budget resolution in the Senate from 51 votes to 60 votes, which is 3/5 of all Senators. This forces bipartisanship throughout the entire budget process while retaining the privileged nature of the budget resolution and matches the 60 vote requirement of the appropriations process. (Offered by Senator Perdue) End “Vote-a-rama”: End vote-a-rama by requiring all amendments to be debated on and voted on within 50 hours of consideration. This would expedite the passage of a budget by limiting frivolous messaging amendments. (Offered by Senator Perdue) Eliminate Gimmicks: Eliminate budgeting gimmicks by cracking down on the use of Changes In Mandatory Programs (CHIMPs) in the appropriations process that produce billions in hidden overspending. (Offered by Senator Lankford) Change Reconciliation Process: Reconciliation is a powerful tool to get around the Senate filibuster. This amendment makes it a required part of the budget rather than an optional part. (Offered by Senator Lankford) The Joint Select Committee was established by Congress on February 9, 2018 and is composed of 16 Members of Congress: four Senate Republicans – including Senators Perdue, Lankford, and Ernst – four Senate Democrats, four House Republicans, and four House Democrats. The members had until the ending of the calendar year to agree on changes to the budget and appropriations process and present them to Congress for a full vote. On November 29, the select committee’s product did not receive the votes required to move forward. ###
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Senator David Perdue Stands For Bold Changes To Fix Broken Funding Process “We have to keep fighting for a politically neutral platform to fund the government because without that we will never solve this debt crisis.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the U.S. Senate Budget Committee, spoke on the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform’s final legislative product. The committee did not make significant changes to Congress’s broken funding process, so Senator Perdue voted against the final product. Click here to watch. Highlights: Disappointed In Outcome: “If we don’t start standing up to our leadership and doing what’s right, we are going to have disappointment like mine because we have to wait until another day to fix the budget process that has been broken for 44 years.” Product Should Have Been Bipartisan: “This select committee passed 5 amendments – 3 were sponsored by Democrats, 2 were sponsored by Republicans. There were many more amendments with Democrat and Republican cooperation that didn’t make it into the final product.” Failed To Achieve Objective: “I want to be a yes on this. These are small steps and they do push the ball forward, but they will not achieve the objective to create a politically neutral platform to help us fund this government on time.” Keep Up The Fight: “We have to keep fighting for a politically neutral platform to fund the government because without that we will never have a platform to stand on to solve this debt crisis.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.27.2018	11.27.18 Senators Perdue, Lankford, Ernst Propose Bold Changes To Ensure Congress Funds Government On Time Senators Push Real World Consequences For Failure To Meet Funding Deadlines WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), James Lankford (R-OK), and Joni Ernst (R-IA) are proposing bold changes to the funding process to ensure Congress does its job and fully funds the federal government on time. The Senators are introducing amendments to create specific milestones for passing a budget and appropriations bills that would keep Congress on track. The proposals will be considered in the bicameral, bipartisan Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform. “In the real world, you are held accountable to make tough decisions and complete the job,” said Senator Perdue, member of the Senate Budget Committee. “Unfortunately, Washington is locked in a cycle of continuing resolutions and last-minute spending deals. This is totally irresponsible. To be successful, this Joint Select Committee must create a politically neutral platform with specific milestones for completing funding and impose severe consequences if Members of Congress don’t get the job done. We won’t fix this broken funding process or the national debt crisis if Congress refuses to hold itself accountable for failure.” “Congress should face consequences if we cannot act in time to pass a budget and fund the government,” said Senator Lankford, member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “This past summer, the Senate did not take the annual August state work period because the work in Washington was unfinished. This year, only five of the 12 individual appropriations bills were signed into law by the September 30 deadline, leaving seven still remaining for Congress to address. Congress has not been able to pass all 12 appropriations bills since 1995. This amendment should be included in the final text of the bill passed by the Joint Committee.” “The most essential role Congress has is to raise revenue and fund the federal government,” said Senator Ernst. “Yet, since 1974, Congress has passed all of its appropriations bills just four times. And, in the past 20 years, we have only passed a budget resolution 11 times! Congress can do better; we owe it to the American people to complete our work on time. If we fail to meet our deadlines, we should stay at work until we get the job done.” The Joint Select Committee was established by Congress on February 9, 2018 and is composed of 16 Members of Congress: four Senate Republicans – including Senators Perdue, Lankford, and Ernst – four Senate Democrats, four House Republicans, and four House Democrats. The members have until the ending of the calendar year to agree on changes to the budget and appropriations process and present them to Congress for a full vote. ###
11.21.2018	11.21.18 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Secure Critical Funding To Advance Savannah Harbor Expansion Project President Trump approves additional funds to keep project on track next year ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), have secured additional federal funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track in 2019. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its fiscal year 2019 work plan, which includes $52.12 million in additional funds for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. This additional funding, combined with the President Trump’s original budget request of $49 million, brings the total fiscal year 2019 federal funding for SHEP to roughly $101 million, which will keep the critical economic development project on track. “We have worked tirelessly to ensure that the federal government adequately funds the deepening of the Port of Savannah to maintain the incredible growth it has experienced,” said Senator Isakson. “With this announcement, President Trump is delivering for Georgia in a big way, and I’m grateful to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney for their continued commitment to this vital infrastructure project. Our commitment is unwavering, and we will keep pressing until the job is complete." “After 19 years of delays at the federal level, we finally have a President who is committed to completing critical infrastructure projects that will help our nation compete globally,” said Senator Perdue. “The Port of Savannah is the fourth largest and fastest growing port in the United States. Out of all port projects across the country, SHEP has the best benefit to cost ratio at 7.3 to 1. Once completed, SHEP will contribute $282 million to our economy each year. There’s no doubt the Port of Savannah is an economic engine for Georgia, and this funding is a huge win for our state and nation.” “Once again, President Trump and Director Mulvaney have demonstrated the national significance of adequately funding SHEP and maintaining the project’s timeline,” said Congressman Carter. “With this commitment, we are one step closer to realizing the full economic impact expanding our harbor will have on the nation and the world. We will continue fighting for this federal support to keep the project moving forward and on time until it becomes a reality.” Background: In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for SHEP in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. In June 2018, Isakson, Perdue, and Carter secured full federal funding for SHEP for the first time at the federal level. Earlier this year, Savannah Morning News editorial board praised Isakson, Perdue, and Carter for their roles in achieving full federal funding for the first time. ###
11.19.2018	11.19.18 Senator David Perdue On First Audit Of Defense Department Audit Comes After Senator Perdue’s Repeated Calls For Transparency At The Pentagon ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue, member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the first audit of the Department of Defense: “Until now, the Department of Defense – the largest single discretionary line item in the federal government’s budget – has never been audited. When I came to the United States Senate, I heard dozens of excuses for this, the most common being the DOD is too large and complex to complete an audit. The truth is bureaucrats were dragging their feet. I commend Secretary Mattis for completing this audit. While this is a step in the right direction, it only underscores the need for greater transparency and accountability at DOD. In order to modernize our capabilities, improve readiness, and rebuild our military after years of disinvestment, we need to have a clear understanding of how the Pentagon uses its resources. With a $21 trillion national debt and global security crisis, we cannot afford to misuse a single dollar in supporting our service members.” Senator Perdue’s Consistent Calls For An Audit: Senator Perdue spoke on the Senate floor about the need for a DOD audit as a tool to tackle the national debt crisis. Senator Perdue published an op-ed in Real Clear Defense calling for the first full audit of the DOD. Senator Perdue secured amendments to the NDAA to improve fiscal accountability at the Pentagon. Major General Arnold Punaro (USMC, Ret.) praised Senator Perdue’s work to secure the future of Georgia’s military bases, including his requests for an audit of the DOD. General Punaro was staff director of the Senate Armed Service Committee under Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA).
11.16.2018	11.16.18 Senate Passes Bill To Name Columbus Post Office After Fort Benning Unit WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) applauded the Senate’s passage of a bill yesterday that they introduced to designate a United States Post Office in Columbus, Georgia, as the “Richard W. Williams, Jr., Chapter of the Triple Nickles (555th P.I.A.) Post Office.” The bill, S.3237, was introduced in honor of Columbus-area veterans who served in military units that originated from the Army’s first all-black parachute unit, which was activated at Fort Benning in December 1943. “The Triple Nickles trained at Fort Benning and went on to serve in more airborne units than any other parachute group in history,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “They are a key part of Georgia’s proud military tradition, and it’s an honor to recognize their service with this tribute. Columbus and the Fort Benning community have always embraced our veterans and their families, and this renaming will be a fitting way to honor all who have served.” “The service members of the Richard W. Williams, Jr., Chapter of the 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, better known as Triple Nickles, served with distinction and honor in this unit and beyond, and I’m glad to know we are one step closer to renaming this Columbus post office in their honor,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “As the nation’s first all-black parachute unit, these heroes courageously protected and defended our country throughout the 20th century, and I am glad to have the opportunity to thank them for their selfless actions and distinguished service.” Perdue and Isakson introduced the Senate bill in July to honor the 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, commonly known as the Triple Nickles. The unit was deactivated in December 1947, and its members went on to serve in other military units during the Korean War. Notably, many members of the Triple Nickles also went on to form the Army’s first and only all-black Ranger unit, the 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, which trained at Fort Benning and saw action in the Korean War. Ultimately, members of the Triple Nickles served in more airborne units, in peace and war, than any other parachute group in history. The Richard W. Williams, Jr., Chapter of the Triple Nickles currently has a membership of approximately 61 veterans in Columbus, Georgia, and the surrounding area who served in various military units that were fathered by the Triple Nickle, including the 173rd Airborne, 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, 1st Calvary Division, and the 24th Infantry Division. The Post Office to be renamed is located at 120 12th Street Lobby, Columbus, Georgia. Companion legislation, H.R.6719, was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives in September by U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02) and Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03). View the bill here.
11.15.2018	11.15.18 Duckworth, Perdue Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Expand Investments in Airport Infrastructure WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and David Perdue (R-GA) today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve airport infrastructure by allowing airport projects to access cheaper public and private capital financing. The TIFIA for Airports Act would expand eligibility for Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) credit assistance to state and local airport projects, including passenger terminals and runways. “This bipartisan legislation is a step in the right direction to modernize our nation’s aging airport infrastructure, create good-paying jobs and generate economic development,” Duckworth said. “I’m proud to be working across the aisle with Senator Perdue to make sure airport improvement projects, like O’Hare Modernization, maximize taxpayers’ investment by reducing costs and improving project deliverability.” “Atlanta is home to the world’s busiest airport, making Georgia a hub of innovation and a gateway to the rest of the world,” said Perdue. “Infrastructure improvements are needed at airports across the country to keep American aviation competitive. By increasing access to capital financing, airports will be able to modernize passenger terminals, update runways, and complete important infrastructure projects quicker and more efficiently.” Airport projects have limited access to traditional TIFIA funding that finances surface transportation projects like highways, transit, intermodal freight and port access all over the country. TIFIA for Airports Act would provide a $10 million credit subsidy through the existing TIFIA program, allowing airports to potentially leverage more than $200 million in capital investment. In October, Duckworth and Perdue successfully included a bipartisan amendment in the FAA Reauthorization Act requiring the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to report to Congress within 9 months on the potential benefits of extending the TIFIA low-cost financing mechanism to airports, such as reduced capital costs, jobs created, and faster and cheaper facility modernization. ###
11.15.2018	11.15.18 Senator David Perdue Proposes Bold Changes To Fix Broken Funding Process “Congress should be held to the same standards of people in the real world.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Budget Committee, announces five key priorities for changing Congress’ broken funding process, which will be considered in the bicameral Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform: “Since I first came to the United States Senate, I’ve called for changing Washington’s broken budget and funding process. We began with an informal, bipartisan working group of members who agreed it was time to change the budget process. The working group investigated best practices in other countries, states, and companies. Now, this Joint Select Committee is our chance to find a real solution. Congress has only funded the government on time four times since the Budget Act of 1974 was signed into law, and the last time was in 1996—more than 20 years ago. On top of that, the federal government has shut down 20 times in the last 44 years because Congress failed to meet its funding deadline. This September, Congress was close to fully funding the government on time for the first time in 22 years. Instead, Congress gave up and passed another continuing resolution. This is totally irresponsible. More than ever, we need a politically neutral platform and real consequences for Members of Congress if they don’t get the job done. Congress should be held to the same standards of people in the real world.” Senator Perdue will offer the following solutions: Milestones With Consequences: Create a series of milestones for passing a budget and appropriations bills to keep Congress on track to fund the government on time. Coupled with changing the fiscal year, these milestones would provide more certainty for our military and other federal agencies. Change The Fiscal Year Ending From September 30 To December 31: Matching the fiscal year with the calendar year gives Congress more time to pass a budget and all of the appropriations bills. Make The Budget A Law: Change the budget from a concurrent resolution to a joint resolution, making it require the signature of the President and carry the force of law. Require 60 Votes: Raise the vote threshold for final passage of a budget resolution in the Senate from 51 votes to 60 votes, which is 3/5 of all Senators. This forces bipartisanship throughout the entire budget process while retaining the privileged nature of the budget resolution and matches the 60 vote requirement of the appropriations process. End “Vote-a-rama”: End vote-a-rama by requiring all amendments to be debated on and voted on within 50 hours of consideration. This would expedite the passage of a budget by limiting frivolous messaging amendments. The Joint Select Committee was established by Congress on February 9, 2018 and is composed of 16 Members of Congress: four Senate Republicans, four Senate Democrats, four House Republicans, and four House Democrats. The members have until the ending of the calendar year to agree on changes to the budget and appropriations process and present them to Congress for a full vote. Senator Perdue has made it one of his top priorities to change Congress’ failed funding process. Over the past three years, he has met with policy experts, outside groups, retired Members of Congress, and his colleagues from both parties and chambers to study best practices and highlight the flaws of the current budget process. In February, he wrote a column in The Hill calling on Congress to recognize that the current funding process will never work and it must be changed. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.14.2018	11.14.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Resolution Promotes Safe Driving During Thanksgiving, Holiday Season WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today reintroduced a Senate resolution urging caution on roadways during the holiday season. The resolution designates the Sunday after Thanksgiving as “Drive Safer Sunday.” The Sunday after Thanksgiving is among the busiest highway traffic days of the year and provides an opportunity to remind drivers to use extra caution throughout the season. Drive Safer Sunday falls this year on November 25. “With the holiday season approaching, road traffic increases and the Sunday after Thanksgiving is particularly heavy and dangerous,” said Senator Isakson. “I urge Georgians to slow down, take extra care while traveling and remember to ‘Drive Safer Sunday.’ Georgia’s ‘hands free’ law went into effect earlier this year, and I hope that this simple step has helped Georgians think twice before taking risks behind the wheel. Our law enforcement officials and first responders are working hard to keep us safe, and we can each do our part to help each other. I wish all Georgians a safe and happy holiday season.” “As we head into one of the busiest travel times of the year, Senator Isakson and I want to remind Georgians to slow down, be alert, and use extra caution when driving to visit loved ones,” said Senator Perdue. “I hope everyone has a safe and happy holiday season. Our thanks go out to law enforcement officers and first responders working around the clock to keep all Georgians safe.” The resolution encourages everyone – including learning institutions, trucking firms, clergy and law enforcement – to promote safe driving habits and work together to help make roads safer for travelers. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates that simply wearing a seat belt saves as many as 15,000 lives a year. Isakson and Perdue were joined by Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) in once again introducing the resolution. The full text of the resolution can be found here. Background: The inspiration behind the “Drive Safer Sunday” resolution is to honor the memory of Cullum Owings, a Georgia college student who died in 2002 in a traffic accident on his way back to school after Thanksgiving. Isakson has introduced this Senate resolution for several years. Cullum Owings’ parents, Steve and Susan Owings of Atlanta, founded an organization called Road Safe America in honor of their son to bring awareness to the hazards of highway travel and provide statistics and safety tips to drivers. Road Safe America’s goals include better driver training for all drivers and limiting the top speed for large trucks. For more information on safe driving tips and what you can do to improve the safety of America’s roadways please visit: www.roadsafeamerica.org. ###
11.14.2018	11.14.18 U.S. Senators Take Action To Hold Proxy Advisory Firms Accountable New bipartisan bill would help protect investors, strengthen corporate governance, and ensure proper oversight of proxy advisory firms WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Doug Jones (D-AL), John Kennedy (R-LA), and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), members of the Senate Banking Committee, are taking action to protect investors, improve corporate governance, and hold proxy advisory firms accountable. The Senators are introducing the bipartisan Corporate Governance Fairness Act, which would help ensure investors can confidently rely on the advice of proxy advisory firms by requiring the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to regulate all major proxy advisory firms under the Investment Advisers Act (IAA). Proxy advisory firms are an essential tool for investors, and the Senators want to ensure they are well-regulated and held accountable as fiduciaries to the investors who rely on their advice. This advice is critical for investors as they decide how to vote their shares on important corporate governance matters, such as director elections or whether to sell the company. The SEC is scheduled to hold a roundtable discussion on proxy advisory firms on November 15, and the bipartisan sponsors of the Corporate Governance Fairness Act are sending a strong signal that they want robust oversight of proxy advisory firms. The Corporate Governance Fairness Act would direct the SEC to conduct periodic examinations, which must include a serious review of the conflicts of interest policies of registered proxy advisory firms and whether firms knowingly made false statements to any of its clients. It also requires the SEC to consult with all relevant stakeholders and report back periodically to the Senate Banking Committee and the House Financial Services Committee with recommendations for any additional investor protections beyond continued access to proxy advisory firms so that investors have the tools to make informed investment decisions and exercise their rights as shareholders. “As a former CEO of publicly-listed companies, I understand the value that proxy advisory firms provide to the investment community,” said Senator Perdue. “At the same time, greater oversight is needed to monitor the industry and ensure that the advice provided is transparent and free from conflicts of interest. Millions of hardworking Americans rely on this guidance for safeguarding their retirement savings.” “Given the importance that investors have placed on continued access to proxy advisory firms, it is critical that proxy advisory firms are appropriately regulated and held accountable to investors, and this is the purpose of the bipartisan Corporate Governance Fairness Act,” said Senator Reed. “Under our legislation, all major proxy advisory firms would be required to register as investment advisers under the IAA, and therefore have a fiduciary duty to their clients. So as to not discourage new entrants into the proxy advisory business, our bill provides smaller proxy advisory firms the choice to voluntarily register under the IAA but does not require them to do so. The Congressional intent of this legislation is to preserve the critical role played by proxy advisory firms and to hold them accountable to investors.” “Proxy advisory firms play a crucial role in recommending investment decisions to investors, and it is important that clients can safely rely that the information being provided is in their best interest,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan Corporate Governance Fairness Act would hold proxy advisory firms accountable and strengthen the transparency of corporate governance matters so when investors might be voting on a new board member or deciding whether to sell a company they are invested in, they have all the information available.” “For our public markets to thrive, investors need timely, accurate information about public companies,” said Senator Jones. “Proxy advisory firms play a critical role in providing that information to investors. Given their essential role in the marketplace, I believe it is prudent that these firms are properly regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, making sure that conflicts of interest are avoided and that proxy advisory firms are legally required to serve in their clients best interests. This commonsense oversight measure will increase confidence in our public markets, benefiting both investors and growing companies.” “Proxy advisers are a dependable resource for many shareholders across the investment community. However, their work should not remain unchecked,” said Senator Kennedy, a member of the Banking Committee. “Requiring proxy advisers to register with the SEC will help reinforce these firms’ integrity by addressing any potential conflicts of interest and by assessing the accuracy of their communications. This bipartisan legislation will protect investors by holding proxy advisory firms responsible for the services that they provide to clients.” “Increasing transparency and accountability in corporate governance decisions is critical to the continued healthy operation of our public markets,” said Senator Heitkamp. “I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce the Corporate Governance Fairness Act, which would take meaningful steps to right-size the regulation of proxy advisors, support investors, and strengthen corporate decision-making at our publicly traded companies.” “This is a thoughtful and balanced bill that brings the benefits of government oversight to the proxy advisory business while recognizing, and strengthening, the fiduciary duty that these firms owe to their investor clients. The Consumer Federation of America strongly supports its adoption,” said Barbara Roper, Director of Investor Protection for the Consumer Federation of America. “This well-considered bill would improve oversight of proxy advisors without impairing their ability to assist fiduciaries in carrying out their important roles in corporate governance,” said Harvard Law School Securities Regulation Professor John Coates, who is also a member of the SEC Investor Advisory Committee. “We strongly support this bipartisan bill that advances the regulation of proxy advisory firms under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Working together, the Corporate Governance Fairness Act strikes an important balance between the interests of our issuers and the value that proxy advisory firms offer to institutional investors. It will also place the oversight of these firms in the hands of the SEC, and ensure that the information that they provide to their institutional clients is factual and unbiased,” said Stacey Cunningham, President of the New York Stock Exchange. “The Society applauds the bipartisan introduction of the Corporate Governance Fairness Act and commends the members of the Senate Banking Committee for coming together to provide real reform that strengthens America's capital markets, our public companies, and their shareholders. At a time when the influence of proxy advisory firms reaches all-time highs, the CGFA will provide the transparency and fairness to both investors and public companies that are the hallmarks of American capital markets. The Society for Corporate Governance supports the enactment of this bill,” said Darla Stuckey, President & CEO of the Society for Corporate Governance. ###
11.14.2018	11.14.18 Senator David Perdue Highlights Georgia’s Booming Film Industry Blockbuster movie ‘Instant Family’ brings $52 million to Georgia’s economy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) speaks at a special screening of Instant Family, which was filmed entirely in Georgia and stars actors Mark Wahlberg and Rose Byrne, at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. Viacom and Paramount Pictures invested over $52 million in Georgia while filming Instant Family. Click here to download photos. “On top of being the best state in the country in which to do business for six straight years, Georgia is now the number one filming location in the United States,” said Senator Perdue. “We’re proud to partner with Viacom and Paramount Pictures to bring thousands of jobs and economic opportunities to Georgia. Congratulations to the cast, crew, and director Sean Anders on bringing Instant Family’s powerful story to the big screen.” “Senator Perdue has been a steadfast supporter of the film industry in Georgia,” said DeDe Lea, Executive Vice President of Government Affairs at Viacom Inc. “The Senator helped enact federal tax reform legislation last year which made the state an even more attractive home for film and television investment. Viacom and Paramount Pictures were proud to shoot their newest feature film, Instant Family, in and around Georgia, and to support local businesses and Georgian workers.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.10.2018	11.10.18 Senator David Perdue Honors America’s Veterans “The women and men who wear the uniform represent the very best of our nation.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) honors America’s veterans ahead of Veterans Day, November 11, 2018: “Our veterans and their families have sacrificed so much to keep our country safe and free. The women and men who wear the uniform represent the very best of our nation. As Americans, we have a responsibility to uphold the commitments we made to our veterans, and it’s a job I take very seriously. In the United States Senate, we’ve taken action to restore accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs and removed over 4,000 bureaucrats for not doing their jobs. We’ve also renewed the CHOICE program allowing veterans to seek out private medical care if they are unable to get it at the VA. I know all Georgians join me in thanking those who have answered the call to serve, past and present.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.02.2018	11.02.18 Senator David Perdue: President Trump Is Right On Immigration “It’s time to fix our broken immigration system and prioritize the security of the American people.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s priorities for fixing the United States’ broken immigration system: “For the first time in decades, we have a President who is serious about securing our borders and protecting our national security. The United States’ current immigration policies encourage illegal immigration. President Trump is right – we’ve got to close loopholes, build the wall along the southern border, and move to a merit-based immigration system that’s pro-growth and pro-worker. Earlier this year, we had an opportunity to tackle these immigration problems, but unfortunately, Senate Democrats chose to play politics rather than find a real solution. It’s time to fix our broken immigration system and prioritize the security of the American people.” Senator Perdue has been working to fix our broken immigration system since he came to the United States Senate. He has introduced three targeted bills: the RAISE Act, SECURE Act, and Secure and Succeed Act. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.16.2018	10.16.18 Senators Perdue, Isakson Tour Hurricane Michael Devastation With Vice President Pence Senators Thank President Trump For Visiting Georgia ALBANY, GA – Following President Donald Trump’s visit to Middle Georgia yesterday, U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) joined Vice President Mike Pence and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue in Bainbridge, Moultrie, and Albany, Georgia to visit farmers and producers who have been devastated by Hurricane Michael. They were also joined by Georgia Governor Nathan Deal and other state and local officials. Click here or on image below to download pictures. “It was an honor to have both President Trump and Vice President Pence in Georgia this week as we assess Hurricane Michael’s impact on our state,” said Senator David Perdue. “Today, we joined Vice President Pence and Secretary Perdue in South Georgia, where we met with farmers and producers who have suffered significant crop losses in the aftermath of the storm. There’s a long road ahead, but it’s encouraging to see Georgians come together during this challenging time. Thanks to President Trump, Vice President Pence, our first responders, and local and state authorities for their support as we work to get our communities up and running again.” “Georgia took a direct hit from Hurricane Michael and is in the beginning phases of recovery. I’m thankful for President Trump, who came down to Georgia yesterday with other administration officials to see firsthand the devastating situation on the ground. Traveling today with Vice President Mike Pence, Second Lady Karen Pence and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, we had a chance to talk with our farmers and survey some of the worst-hit areas of southwest Georgia,” said Senator Johnny Isakson. “Lives and livelihoods have been shattered, and our agriculture community took a particularly big hit. I thank President Trump, Vice President Pence and Secretary Perdue and Governor Deal for their commitment to working together to ensure Georgians have the resources they need to fully recover and make right what was lost to natural disaster.” “People have no idea how hard Hurricane Michael has hit the great state of Georgia. We are working very hard on every area and every state that was hit - we are with you,” said President Donald Trump. “The people are incredible in Florida and in Georgia…I want to thank FEMA, first responders, and law enforcement – everyone has been so incredible.” “I know that we will get through this challenging time,” said Vice President Mike Pence. “We will rebuild these crops and these communities. We will restore southwest Georgia, we will restore the Sunbelt region bigger and better than ever before. The best days for Georgia, the best days for American agriculture, and the best days for America, are yet to come.” “The Trump Administration is making a reputation for being more connected to state and local partners than any other administration I can ever remember,” said Secretary Sonny Perdue. “Commissioner Gary Black, Governor Deal, and I have experienced this all the way from local community leaders to state legislators and governors. The people you've appointed in your office are reaching out and making people feel like we have truly one government. It’s wonderful to be a part of that.” ###
10.16.2018	10.16.18 Georgians Come Together In Hurricane Michael Aftermath ATLANTA, GA – In the aftermath of Hurricane Michael, Georgians have come together to help their neighbors, serve meals to those in need, and assist first responders with recovery efforts. Airmen and soldiers from the Georgia National Guard and Air National Guard distribute food and water in Miller County, GA. (photo by Tech. Sgt. Amber Williams) Serving Hot Meals: A group of 30 volunteers from Broken Shackle Ranch in Washington County, GA traveled to the Albany area to serve hot meals, cut down trees, and help clear roadways. The group plans to travel to other hard-hit areas to help as many Georgians as possible. (WFXL) Officers Clearing Roads: Officers with the Bibb County Sheriff’s Office used their personal chainsaws to help get trees off the roads in Middle Georgia. “We know how busy Public Works gets… It’s part of our duty to our community,” said Bibb County Sheriff’s Deputy James Litton. (The Telegraph) Mobilizing Resources: Kathy Burns and Charles White, field representatives for Senator Perdue, worked with federal officials to mobilize emergency resources and get bottled water, MREs, and generators to Georgians in need. (Stewart County Commission) Distributing Food & Water: Airmen and soldiers from the 116th Air Control Wing, Georgia Air National Guard, deployed from Robins Air Force Base to help distribute food and water to those affected by Hurricane Michael. (National Guard) Helping Neighbors: Georgia Southern University’s Armstrong campus opened its doors to Albany State University students who were without water and electricity. (WTOC) 14,000 Bottles Of Water: Callaway Blue Springs Water hauled over 14,000 bottles of water to Albany to assist with hurricane relief efforts. (WALB) ###
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Senators Isakson & Perdue Applaud Senate Confirmation Of Judge Billy Ray To U.S. District Court For The Northern District of Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) applaud the U.S. Senate’s confirmation of Judge William M. “Billy” Ray, II, of Grayson, GA to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. “Judge Billy Ray has an outstanding record of service to Georgia in our state Legislature and on the bench and a history of getting things done,” said Senator Isakson. “Judge Ray created ‘Heidi’s Law’ in Georgia to tighten penalties in repeat DUI cases, and he created the drug court in Gwinnett County. I’m pleased the Senate confirmed Judge Ray and look forward to his continued service.” “Judge Billy Ray is a lifelong Georgian who has served our state well throughout his distinguished career on the bench and in the state legislature,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m confident Judge Ray will continue to serve with integrity in this new role, just as he did during his combined 16 years on the Court of Appeals of Georgia and Superior Court in Gwinnett County. President Trump has selected an exceptional Georgian to fill this seat on the federal bench, and I congratulate Judge Ray on his confirmation.” Ray has served as the 76th Judge of the Court of Appeals of Georgia since 2012. Prior to his appointment to the Court of Appeals, Judge Ray served for 10 years as a Superior Court Judge in the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit. Judge Ray served for six years in the Georgia Legislature and was a partner in the Gwinnett County law firm of Andersen, Davidson & Tate, P.C. Judge Ray received his B.B.A from the University of Georgia Terry College of Business, magna cum laude, his M.B.A., from the University of Georgia Terry College of Business, and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law. Senators Isakson and Perdue introduced Judge Ray before his hearing in the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on Sept. 20, 2017. Watch Senator Isakson’s introduction here and Senator Perdue’s introduction here. ###
10.10.2018	10.10.18 Georgia Congressional Delegation Requests Expedited Emergency Declaration Approval For Georgia Entire delegation sends bipartisan letter to President Trump urging immediate action to ensure timely aid for Georgians impacted by Hurricane Michael WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), along with the entire Georgia congressional delegation, write to President Donald Trump to request expedited emergency resources to aid counties in Georgia expected to be impacted by Hurricane Michael. Earlier this morning, Hurricane Michael was upgraded to a Category 4 storm and is expected to bring damaging winds, rain and flooding throughout the Southeast. On Tuesday, October 9, based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Michael and acting on a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency officials, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal issued an emergency declaration for 92 Georgia counties, making all state resources available to local governments and entities within the impacted area of the hurricane. “We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael,” write the members. “As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days.” On October 9, Senators Isakson and Perdue urged Georgians to heed officials’ warnings and take safety precautions ahead of Hurricane Michael’s landfall. Click here for full text of the Georgia congressional delegation’s letter. ###
10.09.2018	10.09.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Georgians To Prepare For Hurricane Michael ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today urged Georgians to take safety precautions ahead of Hurricane Michael’s landfall. Based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Michael and acting on a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency (GEMA/HS) officials, Governor Nathan Deal today issued an emergency declaration for 92 Georgia counties. The emergency declaration is effective for seven days and makes all state resources available to local governments and entities within the impacted area of the hurricane. The 92 counties under emergency declaration are: Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Baker, Baldwin, Ben Hill, Berrien, Bibb, Bleckley, Brantley, Brooks, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Calhoun, Camden, Candler, Charlton, Chatham, Chattahoochee, Clay, Clinch, Coffee, Colquitt, Cook, Crawford, Crisp, Decatur, Dodge, Dooly, Dougherty, Early, Echols, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Glascock, Glynn, Grady, Hancock, Houston, Irwin, Jeff Davis, Jefferson, Jenkins, Johnson, Jones, Lanier, Laurens, Lee, Liberty, Long, Lowndes, Macon, Marion, McIntosh, Miller, Mitchell, Montgomery, Muscogee, Peach, Pierce, Pulaski, Quitman, Randolph, Richmond, Schley, Screven, Seminole, Stewart, Sumter, Talbot, Tattnall, Taylor, Telfair, Terrell, Thomas, Tift, Toombs, Treutlen, Turner, Twiggs, Upson, Ware, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Webster, Wheeler, Wilcox, Wilkinson, and Worth counties. “We have learned time and again that preparedness saves lives,” said Senator Isakson. “As Hurricane Michael picks up speed and strength as it approaches the Gulf Coast of the United States, it has the potential to affect Georgians. I urge all Georgians to be vigilant, stay updated and heed the advice of state and local officials and please take advantage of this window of time and the many available resources to prepare. We are working closely with Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the storm approaches landfall in the United States. As always, Senator Perdue and I will work together in the Senate and do all we can to support preparedness, response and recovery efforts.” “Hurricane Michael is moving quickly, gaining strength, and has the potential to impact many Georgians as it makes landfall,” said Senator Perdue. “Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, and local authorities are preparing for the storm and will keep Georgians updated as the situation develops. To ensure everyone’s safety, including the safety of our first responders, please take this storm seriously and heed all advice from local, state, and federal officials.” If you have not already done so, now is the time to prepare for tropical weather and plan where you will go if a watch/warning is issued in your community. Be familiar with evacuation routes, have a family communications plan, keep a battery-powered radio handy and have a plan for pets. Visit www.ready.gov or www.listo.gov to learn these and other preparedness tips for hurricanes and tropical storms. Georgia Hurricane Resources: View up-to-date emergency declarations from Governor Deal here. View updates from Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency here. Download the Ready Georgia app for weather alerts and emergency preparedness tips. Follow Georgia 511 for real-time traffic information. Learn what to do before, during, and after a flood here. Report power outages by contacting your power provider. The two main providers in Georgia are: Georgia Power (contact here or at 888-891-0938) Georgia electric membership cooperatives (EMCs) (find your local branch here) Call your local non-emergency police line to report a downed tree in a main road. Learn about U.S. Department of Agriculture Disaster Assistance Programs here. ###
10.06.2018	10.06.18 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh To Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) votes to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh as the next Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court: “This has proven to be a tumultuous time in Washington. Despite partisan attempts to assassinate Judge Kavanaugh’s character, it is encouraging this body acted decisively about the future of our nation’s highest court. The presumption of innocence remains a fundamental cornerstone of our democracy. The United States Senate’s role is to provide advice and consent, and that is a job I take very seriously. There is no doubt in my mind that Judge Kavanaugh will do exactly what he said he would do in his testimony before the Senate: ‘Preserve the Constitution of the United States and the American rule of law.’ I'm proud to vote to confirm such an imminently qualified nominee. Just as he did during his 12 years on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, I'm confident Judge Kavanaugh will serve this nation well on the United States Supreme Court.” Background: Watch Senator Perdue’s floor speech in support of Judge Kavanaugh. Share Georgians’ widespread support across the state for Judge Kavanaugh. Read Senator Perdue’s column on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination in the Marietta Daily Journal. Read Senator Perdue’s statement following the additional Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination. Watch Senator Perdue’s floor speech calling out the extreme tactics top Democrats used in an effort to delay Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation. Read Senator Perdue’s statement following the supplemental FBI report on Judge Kavanaugh. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.05.2018	10.05.18 Bipartisan Senators Denounce China’s Human Rights Abuses “From burning Bibles and demolishing Christian churches…the Chinese government is inflicting terror on its own people” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and 17 other bipartisan senators are condemning the Chinese Communist Party’s persecution of religious minorities and actions to limit free expression and practice of faith in the People’s Republic of China. Joining Senator Perdue in this effort are U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tom Cotton (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Tim Kaine (D-VA), James Lankford (R-OK), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). “The Chinese Communist Party continues to engage in a violent crackdown on religion, employing tactics reminiscent of Mao’s Cultural Revolution,” said Senator Perdue. “From burning Bibles and demolishing Christian churches to the mass internment of hundreds of thousands of Uighur Muslims, the Chinese government is inflicting terror on its own people. The United States must condemn these egregious human rights abuses. I urge my colleagues to work alongside President Trump and Secretary Pompeo to hold them accountable.” “China has a miserable record on human rights and the United States should be a leading voice confronting them,” said Senator Baldwin. “We must send a clear message that China’s persecution of religious minorities and suppression of religious freedom is wrong.” “The persecution of religious minorities anywhere must be condemned, and the perpetrators of abuses must be penalized. China has repeatedly violated fundamental human rights and disregarded religious liberties enshrined in its own Constitution, subjecting religious practitioners to surveillance, censorship, arbitrary detentions, and torture,” said Senator Blumenthal. “The United States is uniquely obligated to champion religious freedoms, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to condemn and hold accountable those responsible for grotesque human rights violations.” “The Chinese Communist Party continues to demolish Christian churches, torture Falun Gong practitioners, and transfer entire Muslim communities into concentration camps,” said Senator Cotton. “Beijing must end its horrific repression of Chinese believers of all faiths.” “The Chinese Communist Party is persecuting millions of its own people because it fears religion,” said Senator Cruz. “It cannot abide an authority higher than the Party. Christians, Uighurs, Falun Gong practitioners, and many others live under threat of imprisonment, torture, and death. America must always stand for the free exercise of religion and I am proud to join Sen. Perdue and my colleagues in this effort.” “The persecution of religious minorities at the hands of some Chinese government officials is wrong and must stop,” said Senator Grassley. “People, no matter where they live, should be able to freely express their religious beliefs. As we work with China on issues of trade and intellectual property, we need to also make fighting for religious liberty a central part of the United States’ relationship with China.” “The U.S. should continue to be a leader in international religious freedom,” said Senator Lankford. “Freedom of conscience cannot be bound by law. China should uphold its own constitution to let its citizens live out their faith. Re-education camps, taking religious symbols out of the public eye, and limiting access to printed resources are not the actions of a nation that honors the rights of their people. This resolution is an important message that the world is watching China’s human rights abuses and their extreme limitations on religious freedom.” “Communist China must not be allowed to continue their campaign of persecution against men and women of all faiths,” said Senator Inhofe. “Sadly, the atrocities in Xinjiang province are just part of the story. In an attempt to maintain their grip on power, the government is censoring religious texts, forcing religious minorities into internment camps and forcing religious conversions. That’s unacceptable. President Trump has proven already that a tough approach against China, as we’ve seen with trade, gets results. I urge him to use the tools Congress has provided to take action against China’s ongoing abuses towards Christians, Muslims and all religious minorities.” “The ability to practice one’s faith freely is one of our nation’s most sacred values and a universal human right,” said Senator Kaine. “I have heard from many Virginians who are concerned about the persecution of religious minority groups by the Chinese government, especially the Uyghur community and Falun Gong practitioners. This resolution reinforces the importance of religious freedom as a critical part of the relationship between the United States and China, as both nations work to find common ground to solve global challenges.” “This resolution reaffirms that the right to freely practice one’s religion is a universal right enshrined in international law, as well as China’s own constitution, and it is unacceptable for the Chinese government to persecute those who wish to worship according to their faith,” said Senator Moran. “China’s leaders must uphold its obligations; otherwise, America should enact penalties for those responsible for ongoing abuses.” “Religious persecution can never be tolerated,” said Senator Rounds. “The Chinese Communist Party has a history of human rights' abuses against its own citizens. We must work together to put an end to this oppressive behavior.” “Religious persecution is unacceptable—and should be condemned—in all of its forms. China must address their dismal human rights record and its brutal treatment of religious minorities, including Uighur Muslims and Christians,” said Senator Van Hollen. “I am glad the Senate came together, in a bipartisan manner, to speak out against China’s oppressive actions.” “China’s hideous human rights abuses, from brainwashing camps for religious minorities, to mass surveillance, to locking up critics of the regime, are an outrage for a country that purports to be a global leader,” said Senator Wyden. “America must not accept that attacks on religious freedom and basic human rights are just the cost of doing business with China.” This resolution: Condemns violence against religious minorities in China and actions that limit free expression and practice of faith. Reaffirms America’s commitment to promote religious freedom and tolerance around the world. Calls on China to uphold its Constitution in addition to internationally recognized human right of freedom from religious persecution and to end violence and discrimination against religious minorities. Condemns the use of re-education centers and internment camps as punishment for religious practice. Condemns the restriction and censorship of religious materials like the Bible, the Quran, and any other religious articles or literature sacrosanct to religious practice or expression. Urges the President to take appropriate actions to promote religious freedom of religious minorities in China, using the powers provided to the President under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act, and the Global Magnitsky Act. Click here for the full resolution. ###
10.04.2018	10.04.18 Senator David Perdue: It’s Time To Vote To Confirm Judge Kavanaugh WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the supplemental FBI report on Judge Brett Kavanaugh: “I have twice reviewed the supplemental FBI report on Judge Kavanaugh’s background and the allegations. There is still no corroborating evidence for the accusations made against Judge Kavanaugh. It’s time to vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court.” Background The FBI contacted 10 individuals, following up on relevant leads from potential eye witnesses. It conducted comprehensive interviews with 9 of them. This has been the most comprehensive review of a Supreme Court nominee in history. It includes: 7 FBI background investigations, including hundreds of interviews 36 hours of testimony before the Senate 65 meetings with Senators More than 500,000 pages of Executive Branch documents, more than the past 4 nominees combined Over 1,200 questions for the record A confidential hearing with Senators 3 confidential calls with Committee Counsel ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Senator David Perdue: It’s Time To Tackle The Opioid Epidemic Head On WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on final Senate passage of the Opioid Crisis Response Act, which now heads to President Trump’s desk to become law: “Last year, President Trump declared the opioid crisis a national Public Health Emergency. Since then, the Trump Administration has worked closely with Congress to ensure that local, state, and federal law enforcement have the tools they need to stop illegal drugs from flooding across our southern border. This bill will also prevent the escalation of opioid prescription fraud within Medicare. We’ve got to stop the spread of opioids through our communities in Georgia and across the country. It’s time to tackle this epidemic head on, and this bill gives states the necessary tools to see that mission through.” The Opioid Crisis Response Act will: Stop illegal drugs, including fentanyl, from coming across the border. Accelerate development of new, non-addictive painkillers. Increase medication-assisted treatment. Prevent “doctor-shopping” by improving state prescription drug monitoring programs. Train more behavioral and mental health providers. Support comprehensive opioid recovery centers. Provide help for mothers addicted to opioids. Prioritize early intervention with vulnerable children who have experienced trauma due to opioid addiction. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Senator David Perdue Calls Out Democrats For Inciting Extremism “Senate Democrats have made it clear, they're willing to say or do anything to stop the president's agenda.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) speaks on the Senate floor to call out the extreme rhetoric top Democrats have been using since President Trump took office and are using now to try and block Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation. Click here to watch. Highlights: Civility In Our Country: “The United States Senate has become nothing more than a bully pulpit for someone's special cause when it should be a deliberative body. We should be finding the truth here. My Democrat colleagues talk all the time about working in a bipartisan way. Yet when you get in the heat of the battle, nothing could be further from the truth. This is bigger than confirming Judge Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. This is about civility in our country.” Democrats Will Stop At Nothing: “Senate Democrats have made it clear, they're willing to say or do anything to stop the president's agenda. One of my democratic colleagues called Judge Kavanaugh ‘your worst nightmare.’ Another called him a nominee who wants to ‘pave the path of tyranny.’ Yet another said that this Supreme Court confirmation would ‘mean the destruction of the Constitution.’ Seriously? Worst of all, another one of my democratic colleagues said, anyone who supports Judge Kavanaugh's nomination is ‘complicit in the evil.’ Really? … Senate Democrats have become so far removed from getting to the truth that they will stop at nothing to delay this Supreme Court confirmation.” Inciting Extremism: “One of my democratic colleagues in this body has encouraged people to, ‘get in the face of some Congresspeople.’ Really? How does that move the cause of justice forward? The House Minority Leader wants to see ‘uprisings all over the country.’ Seriously? Another member of the House said, 'They're not going to be able to go to a restaurant’ – talking about Republicans. ‘They're not going to be able to stop at a gasoline station. They're not going to be able to shop at a department store. The people are going to turn on them. They're going to protest. They're going to absolutely harass them until they decide that they're going to tell the president they can no longer hang with him.’ The same member of the House also said, ‘if you see anybody from that Cabinet in a restaurant, department store, gasoline station, you get out and create a crowd. You push back on them and you tell them they're not welcome.’” Well-Orchestrated Effort: “It is clear that this is all a well-orchestrated effort to cause delay and push this decision past the election. Shame on any member of this body, Republican or Democrat, that puts self-interest and political interest before their constitutional responsibility.” Confirm Kavanaugh: “It's time to put partisan politics and delays behind us. It's time to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. It's time for United States Senators to reread their oath of office, to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States, and to make sure that what we say in this body is the best and the very best America has to offer.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Federal Aviation Bill Heads To President Trump’s Desk Includes Senator Perdue’s Provisions To Improve Aviation Infrastructure & Airline Safety WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on Senate passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) five-year reauthorization: “America is the global leader in aviation innovation. Earlier this year, President Trump laid out his priorities to modernize airport infrastructure, improve air traffic safety, and protect against emerging cyber threats. This bill delivers the necessary resources to keep American aviation competitive. Additionally, reducing burdensome regulations in the pilot hiring process will save valuable time and money. Atlanta is home to the world’s largest international airport, making Georgia a hub of innovation and a gateway to the rest of the globe. Commonsense policies like this will ensure our state and country continue to be a leader in aviation for decades to come.” Senator Perdue Secured The Following Provisions: Enhancement of the Pilot Records Improvement Act (PRIA): Would simplify the hiring process for both pilots and air carriers by allowing carriers secure and appropriate access to National Driver Register (NDR) records through the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. Commissioned Department of Transportation (DOT) study: As recommended in President Trump’s infrastructure proposal, this study would examine the use of Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) financing tools for airport infrastructure improvements. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.01.2018	10.01.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On U.S. Trade Deal With Mexico & Canada WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the United States’ new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada: “President Trump is keeping his promise to achieve better trade deals for America. Our economy has changed significantly since NAFTA was signed 24 years ago, and I saw that first-hand living and working around the world. It is encouraging that the Trump Administration succeeded in bringing both Mexico and Canada to the negotiating table. This new trade agreement will help reset the dialogue with two of our closest allies and strongest trading partners to provide more equal access into those markets. As we review the details, I will continue working closely with the President and his team to make sure this is the best deal for our manufacturers, agriculture producers, and all workers in Georgia and across the country.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.28.2018	09.28.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Judge Kavanaugh’s Nomination To The Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) made the following statement in support of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the United States Supreme Court, following the Senate Judiciary Committee’s vote to move the nomination to the Senate floor: “Any objective observer would agree that Chairman Grassley generously afforded both Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh an equal opportunity to speak before the Senate Judiciary Committee and the American people. In yesterday’s hearing, we heard directly from both Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh. “Here is what we know: “No corroborating evidence has been presented to support these accusations. Judge Kavanaugh has been consistent and categorical in his denial. While Dr. Ford identified three witnesses, each of these witnesses stated under penalty of perjury that the events did not occur, which further corroborates Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony. “While Democrats continue to clamor for further FBI investigation, let’s look at what happened. To date, Judge Kavanaugh has been thoroughly investigated by the FBI six times, which is more than any other Supreme Court nominee in history. If Senate Democrats really wanted to get at the truth, they would have immediately provided the information that only they received to the FBI and the Judiciary Committee. Instead, Senator Feinstein held onto Dr. Ford’s letter for six weeks before it was leaked to the press. “When Chairman Grassley learned of Dr. Ford’s letter in the media, he quickly instituted a full committee investigation. Since then, the Democratic members of the committee chose not to participate. It is clear that Senate Democrats’ demands for an FBI investigation are nothing more than an orchestrated effort to cause a delay and push this decision past the election in November. “Shame on the United States Senate if it puts political interest before its constitutional responsibility. In America, the presumption of innocence until proven guilty is a cornerstone of our democracy. That’s at the heart of what makes our country exceptional. Now that the committee has voted to move this nomination forward, it is time to take a vote before the full Senate. It is time to put the Democrats’ partisan delays behind us. It is time to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.27.2018	09.27.18 Senators Isakson & Perdue Comment On Agreement Reached To Continue Construction On Plant Vogtle WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) comment on the agreement reached to continue construction of Plant Vogtle near Augusta, GA, which is the only nuclear plant under construction in the country: “As someone who has supported Plant Vogtle since its inception and understands the need for us to provide renewable, affordable and safe energy, I am pleased that all parties were able to come together on an agreement to complete this critical project,” said Senator Isakson. “Today’s agreement allowing the completion of Plant Vogtle is a huge step forward to strengthen America’s nuclear security and energy security and to preserve the more than 7,000 Georgia jobs created by this project.” “Plant Vogtle is an incredible opportunity for our state and our country to finally be a leader in nuclear energy. I am encouraged that all parties involved have found a path forward for this critical project,” said Senator Perdue. “I’ve seen firsthand the tremendous progress being made on Vogtle 3 & 4 – the first new nuclear units built in the United States in more than 30 years. For the country’s long-term energy independence, it is imperative that this project be completed.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Meet With Georgia Principal Of The Year WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) met with 2018 Georgia Principal of the Year, Principal Dara Bennett of Pierce County High School in Blackshear, Georgia. Click here to download a photo. “It was a pleasure to welcome Dara Bennett from Pierce County High School to Washington, D.C. as 2018 Georgia Principal of the Year,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate education committee and former chairman of the Georgia Board of Education. “Mrs. Bennett is being honored for her outstanding dedication to students’ success through education and a positive school culture. It’s teachers and administrators like Mrs. Bennett who make all the difference in providing students with the support they need to ensure future success in their education and beyond.” “Both of my parents were schoolteachers, so education has always been very important to me,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m impressed by Principal Bennett’s efforts to develop professional learning communities and bring data-driven instruction to Pierce County High School. Under her leadership, the school’s graduation rates have skyrocketed. Most importantly, students are learning the skills they need to solve complex problems and compete in a competitive global environment. Congratulations to Principal Bennett and Pierce County High School on this honor, and thank you to all of our educators who help Georgia students succeed.” Principal Bennett was named 2018 Georgia Principal of the Year by the National Association of Secondary School Principals. She has served as Principal of Pierce County High School since 2013, and was Assistant Principal for 10 years prior. ###
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s Message To United Nations “President Trump is displaying strong leadership at a time when the world needs it most.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s address at the annual United Nations General Assembly: “Since day one of his administration, President Trump has taken bold action to reassert America’s national security interests. It’s no secret the world is more dangerous now than any time in my lifetime. President Trump, Secretary Pompeo, and Ambassador Haley have made major strides to improve accountability and transparency at the United Nations, which is critical as we address complex threats from North Korea, Iran, Russia, and China. Today, President Trump sent a strong message to all sovereign nations: the United States will not tolerate expansionist foreign powers, will fight against human trafficking, and will partner worldwide to tackle the global drug crisis. The President also reiterated that the United States will never allow Iran, the world’s leading sponsor of terror, to possess a nuclear weapon. President Trump is displaying strong leadership at a time when the world needs it most.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senators Introduce Bill To Address Humanitarian Crisis & Collapse Of Government In Venezuela WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined Senators Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), John Cornyn (R-TX), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) last night introduced the Venezuela Humanitarian Relief, Reconstruction, and Rule of Law Act of 2018, a comprehensive bill that will expand humanitarian relief and increase economic, political and diplomatic pressure on the Venezuelan government in order to support the Venezuelan people’s efforts to restore democracy and prosperity in their country. “Venezuela’s decline under the oppressive Maduro regime is extremely concerning,” said Senator Perdue. “From the country’s plummeting economy to the deterioration of the rule of law, something has got to change. It is critical that the United States stands with the people of Venezuela and against this tyranny.” “As millions flee repression, hunger and destitution at home, Nicolas Maduro’s criminal regime has turned Venezuela into a failed state with implications across the region. With Venezuela’s humanitarian catastrophe growing daily, Maduro betrays his citizens’ most urgent needs, while his inner circle plunders state coffers and profits from drug trafficking,” said Senator Menendez. “Today’s bipartisan legislation sets out a strategic and consequential response to the Venezuelan crisis, and it provides the humanitarian aid and political and economic pressure needed to put the country back on the path toward democracy.” “As the corrupt Maduro regime adopts a Cuba-style dictatorship and engages in crimes against humanity, including the use of forced starvation against its citizens for political coercion, it is vital for the United States and our partners to provide direct humanitarian aid to the Venezuelan people,” said Senator Rubio. “Maduro’s socialist legacy has devastated a once-rich nation and vibrant economy. I am proud to work with my colleagues on a bipartisan bill to ensure our nation and our allies are prepared to help restore Venezuela’s rule of law. “The Venezuelan people continue to suffer at the hands of the brutal and corrupt Maduro regime, and their once vibrant democracy has been taken over,” said Senator Nelson. “We must stand with them as they work to restore their democracy and find a way to provide badly-needed humanitarian assistance. The situation is dire, and I urge my colleagues to take up and pass this bill as soon as possible.” “The economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela has left many in need, and our country should stand with Venezuelans in their fight for democracy,” said Senator Cornyn. “I’m proud to support the people of Venezuela by providing humanitarian relief, recognizing the democratically-elected National Assembly, and advancing the rule of law.” "I wish we had not reached this desperate moment. I wish the Maduro regime would play by basic democratic rules and let the Venezuelan people freely decide their leaders. I wish the Maduro regime had the courage to compete in a free and fair election. But it didn’t,” said Senator Durbin. “So until it does, and until Leopoldo Lopez, Juan Requesens, and the many other Venezuelan political prisoners are freed, the National Assembly’s powers restored, and a legitimate democratic process is reestablished, I will continue to support pressure on this corrupt regime and sanctioning those responsible for the Venezuela’s misery.” “By offering more humanitarian assistance, stepping up sanctions and financial pressure in coordination with our regional and European allies, and investigating crimes against humanity by Maduro and his cronies, the United States will signal that we stand firmly with the Venezuelan people and support them in the long but necessary work to return their country onto the path of stability, democracy, and prosperity,” said Senator Cardin. “This legislation offers a comprehensive U.S. response to the nightmare Maduro has unleashed on his citizens, demonstrating our resolve to seek accountability for his crimes and support the rights, dignity, and aspirations of the Venezuelan people.” A copy of the Venezuela Humanitarian Relief, Reconstruction, and Rule of Law Act of 2018 can be found here. Key elements of the legislation include: Humanitarian Relief for Venezuela $40 million of additional humanitarian assistance and a requirement for the State Department to hold a donors conference and advance efforts at the United Nations; Restoring Democracy and Addressing the Political Crisis in Venezuela Congressional support for international efforts to hold Venezuelan officials accountable for crimes against humanity; $15 million of support for democratic actors and civil society. Supporting the Reconstruction of Venezuela A requirement for the Departments of State, Treasury and Justice to lead international efforts to freeze and recover the corrupt financial holdings of Venezuelan officials; Accelerated planning with international financial institutions on the economic reconstruction of Venezuela, contingent upon the restoration of democratic governance; Restoring the Rule of Law in Venezuela Expanded sanctions on government officials, drug trafficking and money laundering, and Venezuelan government debt; A requirement for the State Department to work with Latin American governments to establish their own sanctions programs and to increase sanctions coordination with European and Latin American partners; Increased intelligence reporting on Venezuelan officials’ role in corruption and drug trafficking, as well as the role of foreign actors in Venezuela. Cryptocurrency Sanctions Codifying sanctions on Venezuela’s cryptocurrency and related technologies, and a report on the impact of cryptocurrencies on U.S. sanctions globally. ###
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senator David Perdue: Due Process Is At Stake “We should get all the information and move to a vote. The American people demand that.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business’s Mornings with Maria to discuss President Trump’s agenda and Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the United States Supreme Court. Click here to watch. Highlights: Historic Results: “Republicans want President Trump’s agenda executed. They believe he was elected to do three things: grow the economy, rebalance our courts, and secure our borders. The economy is growing at twice the rate as it did under President Obama. We’ve confirmed 68 federal judges. That's historic. One of out of every seven judges has now been nominated by President Trump. The thing that's being held up right now is border security.” Cornerstone Of Judicial System: “This is what’s at stake – the presumption of innocence is a cornerstone of our judicial system. Unfortunately, we have uncorroborated information indicting Judge Kavanaugh in the court of public opinion.” Political Games: “The Democrats have certainly politicized this. They held onto the information for weeks. This didn't come to the committee first, which is the normal protocol…They went to the media directly. Actually, the information was leaked by one of the Democratic senators. Minority Leader Schumer said he would do anything in his power to keep Judge Kavanaugh from being confirmed.” Hearing Both Sides: “I think Senator Grassley has done a fantastic job of making sure that Dr. Ford is heard. We should hear from her, let Judge Kavanaugh be heard, and then move to a vote. The American people demand that.” Agenda Is Working: “Washington doesn’t understand how President Trump got elected…This President got elected because people were fed up with the dysfunction in Washington and with the fact that they weren’t getting anything done. President Trump is getting things done. This agenda is working.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.23.2018	09.23.18 Senator David Perdue: American People Deserve The Truth “We need to hear from Judge Kavanaugh and Dr. Ford, and make sure we do it in a timely manner.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Chuck Todd on NBC’s Meet The Press to discuss Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the United States Supreme Court. Click here to watch. Highlights: Getting To The Truth: “I hope we will get to the truth. I think that’s what the American people deserve, and that’s what we’re trying to do this week. I hope both Judge Kavanaugh and Dr. Ford get an open hearing. I fully expect that will happen this week.” Innocent Until Proven Guilty: “These are serious allegations. I hope Dr. Ford can be put in a comfortable situation where she can provide the information. This is a democracy. We have a judicial system where you are innocent until proven guilty.” Hearing From Both Parties: “My view is that we need to hear from both parties and make sure we do it in a timely manner. It’s already been three months since the information was provided to Senator Feinstein. It’s time to have this hearing and get the information before the American people.” Holistic Approach: “You have four other people who claim they have no recollection of the event. In a situation like this, you look at it in a holistic manner and look at the pattern of behavior over time. Then look at the people who are giving that information and decide their credibility. That’s what each Senator is going to do this week.” FBI’s Role: “Their job is not to determine who is telling the truth, but to make sure the issue is brought before the body looking at it, and that's the Senate Judiciary Committee at this point. This information was made public through Senator Feinstein. The FBI’s role in this case is not to determine who is telling the truth, it’s to make sure that the Senate has the information.” Fully Vetted: “The burden here is to find the truth, just like it is in any courtroom. Judge Kavanaugh has had six FBI investigations. This isn’t the first time he’s been fully vetted.” Trusting Polls: “The information the American people are getting is limited because it’s coming from the media in Washington. Hopefully, we will get all the information in the Senate this week, hear from both sides, take that into consideration, and make our adjudication.” Total Confidence: “I have total confidence Senator Grassley will take his time and make sure we get all the information we need. There is absolutely no rush to judgment. I think any objective person looking at the way Senator Grassley has handled this would walk away thinking he has done everything he can to make sure this information comes before the Senate and that this person is treated with all the respect she is due.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.21.2018	09.21.18 Senator David Perdue Meets With Colquitt County Farmers MOULTRIE, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, meets with the Colquitt County Farm Bureau and local leaders in the agriculture industry. Click here to download photos. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business,” said Senator Perdue. “It was great to hear directly from Colquitt County farmers and producers about their needs and the challenges they face. Their input is critical as we continue working to make our agriculture industry safer, stronger, and more successful.” “We appreciate Senator Perdue taking the time out of his busy schedule to come and talk to Colquitt County farmers one-on-one about issues that are important to our country,” said Stanley Bass, President of the Colquitt County Farm Bureau. “Agriculture is the largest industry in Colquitt County and it impacts all of its citizens.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.21.2018	09.21.18 Senator David Perdue Addresses Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber of Commerce THOMASVILLE, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins the Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber of Commerce to discuss recent tax cuts, regulatory rollbacks, and Georgia’s business-friendly climate. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “For five consecutive years, Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business,” said Senator Perdue. “Groups like the Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber help maintain Georgia’s business-friendly climate that continues to attract some of the country’s most successful companies to the state. It was great to hear about the positive impact the recent tax cuts and regulatory rollbacks have had on their businesses and communities. Thank you to Executive Director Andrea Collins and the whole Chamber for welcoming us today and for your commitment to improving our community.” “Coffee and conversation with Senator Perdue is a direct opportunity for members of the Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber of Commerce to voice concerns for the business climate from a rural perspective,” said Andrea Collins, Executive Director of the Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber of Commerce. “A good, old fashioned, face-to-face meeting allows the gathering of information directly from the voices of our members. We appreciate Senator Perdue making a personal visit to Thomasville, specifically to hear from the business community.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.20.2018	09.20.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Funding Latest On Georgia Radio “Republicans have decided they are going to play defense, and I came up here to play offense.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins several Georgia radio outlets to discuss President Trump’s agenda and Congress’s failure to fully fund the government on time. Highlights: Status Quo Is Unacceptable: “In Washington, kicking the can from September to December is just business as usual. To President Trump and me, it is a crisis, a mistake, and a failure. People in the real world can’t do that.” Playing Offense: “Republicans have decided they are going to play defense, and I came up here to play offense.” More To Accomplish: “I ran for the United States Senate to try to change things up here, and we are making some progress. The economy is moving, we have reengaged with the rest of the world, and the President is fighting to get a level playing field with trade.” Historic Obstructionism: “The historic obstructionism here is absurd. We have 322 nominees waiting to be confirmed. Congress hasn’t given President Trump the funding to secure the border, and that is outrageous. He is fed up, and frankly, so am I.” Picking Up The Pace: “President Trump is changing the direction of our country, but we could be doing it a lot faster. The rules of the Senate are archaic, they are not what the Founders had in mind, and frankly, they are a part of the problem.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.20.2018	09.20.18 Senator David Perdue: Congress’s Funding Process Is Broken “We can do better for the American people, and they demand it.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins David Westin on Bloomberg TV to discuss the $21 trillion national debt crisis and Congress’s failure to fully fund the government on time. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights Broken Funding Process: “Two days ago, the Senate voted to pass another continuing resolution. This is ridiculous. The Senate got 90% of discretionary spending funded, and now we’re kicking the can down the road. This is totally irresponsible. People in the real world can’t do this, but this is a release valve Congress has used 184 times.” Real World Consequences: “In business, you don’t have the opportunity to not face tough decisions. Unfortunately, in Congress, you have a release valve, and it’s the insidious continuing resolution. The President is fed up with this process, and frankly so am I. We can do better for the American people, and they demand it. That’s how President Trump got elected, and frankly, it’s how I got elected.” Bipartisan Budget Solutions: “We fought for the past three years, with the help of former Senators Trent Lott and Tom Daschle, to form a select committee. By November, we will hopefully have a bill to change the way we do this. Congress’s funding process is broken. In the last 44 years, Congress has only fully funded the government on time four times. It’s outrageous, and it’s got to be fixed now.” Tackling National Debt: “If we don’t get serious, we will get to a point where we can’t deal with our national debt. Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid need to be saved. They’re the big problems of this runaway expense over the next decade.” Early Economic Success: “What we have done is turn the tide. Under President Trump’s agenda we are growing the economy. We’ve focused on regulations, energy, tax, and Dodd-Frank. We have released $6 trillion back into the economy. We haven’t even seen the real benefits of that yet, the tax changes are just beginning to kick in.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.20.2018	09.20.18 Senator David Perdue: President Trump’s Agenda Is Working “It’s time to fund our priorities and get President Trump’s agenda accomplished.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Fox & Friends to discuss President Trump’s agenda, Congress’s failure to fully fund the government on time, and Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the Supreme Court. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights President Trump’s Agenda Is Working: “President Trump’s agenda is working. The economy is growing at twice the rate that it did under the Obama Administration. We’ve nominated and confirmed 68 federal judges, including 26 court of appeals judges. The thing that’s lacking is we can’t properly secure the border because of the Democrats’ historic level of obstruction.” Historic Democrat Obstruction: “Right now, we have an historic level of Democrat obstructionism…The President is fed up with this, and frankly, so am I. It’s time to get the government on a process where we can fund our priorities and get this President’s agenda accomplished.” Failed Funding Process: “First, it’s totally irresponsible to kick the can down the road past the end of the fiscal year. People in the real world don’t get to do that – only the United States Congress does that. This is the 184th time Congress has resorted to a continuing resolution since the 1974 Budget Act. Second, it doesn’t fund President Trump’s priorities. He was elected to grow the economy, rebalance the courts, and secure our border.” Confirming Judge Kavanaugh: “Chairman Grassley has done a great job in this process. We have been provided with over 500,000 pages of discovery, and there have been six FBI investigations of Judge Kavanaugh. We want all information before the Judiciary Committee and the Senate. If the information is not provided, it’s time to move forward with the vote next week.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.18.2018	09.18.18 Senator David Perdue: There Is A Different Way To Get Results “Some Senators are already patting themselves on the back for partially funding the government.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) opposes the Senate’s short-term funding bill: “Here we go again. In typical Washington fashion, Congress has once again fallen short of completing its Constitutional responsibility. We had the opportunity to fully fund the government on time for the first time in 22 years. Congress has used over 180 continuing resolutions instead of getting it all done. We are going to walk past the deadline on September 30th and fall into the same trap. This is unacceptable. “Some Senators are already patting themselves on the back for partially funding the government. That is simply not good enough. This failure only further exposes the underlying problems with our current budget process, which has only funded the government four times in the last 44 years. We didn’t cancel August recess and make significant progress on the appropriations process only to give up this close to the finish line. In the real world, you are held accountable to complete the job. The goal should be to never do another continuing resolution. “There is a different way to get results. For the last year, I’ve been working closely with Republicans and Democrats on the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Select Committee to completely change the budget process. I am convinced more than ever we need a politically neutral platform to fund the government on time, every year. I am convinced more than ever we need real consequences for Members of Congress if they don’t get the job done. Ultimately, I came to Washington to change how things work, and I’m not done yet.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.18.2018	09.18.18 Senator David Perdue Announces New HBCU Corporate Partners Atlanta-based Pandora Music Joins HBCU Partnership WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Congresswoman Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. (NC-12), and the Congressional Bipartisan Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus announced that eight companies have agreed to become corporate partners with HBCUs, including Pandora Music in Atlanta, Amazon, AnitaB.org, Dell, Inc., GM Financial, Nielsen, Regions Bank, and Volvo Group North America. By accepting the HBCU Partnership Challenge, these companies will increase engagement with HBCUs and work with the Caucus to establish best practices for diversifying the workforce. “Georgia is home to 10 fantastic HBCUs that play an important role in educating America’s future leaders,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Bipartisan HBCU Caucus. “It’s an honor to work with my colleagues on the Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus to address the unique challenges our HBCUs face, and I’m delighted eight new companies, including Pandora Music in Atlanta, are joining our partnership to highlight the accomplishments of HBCUs across the country.” “One year ago, the National HBCU Braintrust jumpstarted a historic, year-long campaign to strengthen relationships between HBCUs and major corporations. HBCUs have led the charge to produce some of our nation’s greatest African-American talent, despite 200 years of discrimination and inequality, while the tech industry has faced some of the greatest challenges of mankind with fearless innovation and ingenuity,” said Congresswoman Adams, Founder and Co-Chair of the Bipartisan HBCU Caucus. “The HBCU Partnership Challenge continues to be a critical vehicle for developing concrete partnerships between these two revolutionary sectors. I commend the new partnership challenge corporations for their commitment to engagement with HBCUs and look forward to helping them strengthen the pipeline of diverse talent.” “Taking this challenge is the natural next step for Pandora as we work towards achieving our overall diversity and inclusion goals. Our continued partnerships with HBCUs will play an integral role in helping us build a talented and diverse workforce – especially in our main hubs, including Atlanta,” said Adelmise Warner, Pandora Music’s Head of Diversity and Inclusion. “We are thrilled to be working with Senator Perdue, Congresswoman Adams, and the bipartisan HBCU Caucus to forge meaningful partnerships that will connect us with tech and music talent emerging from our nation’s HBCUs.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.17.2018	09.17.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Fight Against Opioid Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on Senate passage of the Opioid Crisis Response Act: “The opioid crisis is devastating communities in Georgia and across the country. Since taking office, President Trump has worked with Congress to tackle this epidemic head on. It’s critical that local, state, and federal law enforcement have the tools they need to stop illegal drugs from flooding across our southern border. Too many of our friends, neighbors, and family members have been impacted by this epidemic. This bill will give Georgia the flexibility and resources needed to better address the opioid crisis at the state and local level. Investing now on the front end will not only save lives, but also help those affected re-enter the workforce.” The Opioid Crisis Response Act will: Stop illegal drugs, including fentanyl, from coming across the border. Accelerate development of new, non-addictive painkillers. Increase medication-assisted treatment. Prevent “doctor-shopping” by improving state prescription drug monitoring programs. Train more behavioral and mental health providers. Support comprehensive opioid recovery centers. Provide help for mothers addicted to opioids. Prioritize early intervention with vulnerable children who have experienced trauma due to opioid addiction. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Senators Take Action Against Iranian-Backed Terrorist Groups WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are taking action to sanction two Iranian-controlled militias in Iraq and Syria. The Senators introduced the Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act following recently declassified reports that Iran provided ballistic missiles and funding for terrorist activities to two Shi’ite proxies, Asaib Ahl al-Haq and Harakat Hezbollah al Nujaba. “President Trump and Secretary Pompeo have been clear that Iran’s aggressive and destabilizing behavior will not be tolerated,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The Iranian regime has no intention of ending their support of terrorism and was empowered by Obama’s weak, poorly-negotiated Iran Deal. For years, Iranian-backed militias have wreaked havoc in Iraq and Syria, killing American soldiers and undermining our national security interests. With the future of Iraq and Syria still at stake, we cannot allow these militias to run rampant.” “The Obama Iran deal gave the Ayatollahs the resources to expand across the Middle East and created an incentive for the international community to stand aside, even as Iran’s terrorist proxies took root in country after country,” said Senator Cruz, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “We have only begun the tough work of undoing the damage from the deal, which requires not just imposing and enforcing the toughest sanctions we have against the regime, but also implementing targeted measures against specific Iranian proxies.” “Iran’s dangerous proxy militias in Iraq and Syria pose a serious threat to the Middle East and the world,” said Senator Rubio, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “This legislation would impose sanctions against Iran’s proxy militias and their agents and affiliates, and make clear that the United States opposes the Iranian regime’s human rights abuses, pursuit of ballistic missile programs, and terrorist activities around the world.” Specifically, the Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act will: Impose terrorism-related sanctions on these two nefarious Iranian-controlled militias in Iraq and Syria. This action follows in the footsteps of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which applied terrorist sanctions to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). Direct the U.S. President to levy the same terrorist sanctions on these two Iranian militias operating in Iraq and Syria. Require the U.S. Secretary of State to publish and maintain an annual list of all armed groups receiving assistance from the IRGC, so the public can examine the extent of Iran’s expansionist designs. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Georgians To Prepare For Hurricane Florence ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today urged Georgians to take safety precautions ahead of Hurricane Florence’s landfall. Governor Nathan Deal has issued an emergency declaration for all 159 counties in Georgia. “We have learned time and again that preparedness saves lives,” said Senator Isakson. “As Hurricane Florence approaches the United States, it has the potential to affect Georgians. I urge all Georgians to be vigilant, stay updated and heed the advice of state and local officials and please take advantage of this window of time and the many available resources to prepare. We are working closely with Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the storm moves closer to the East Coast. As always, Senator Perdue and I will work together in the Senate and do all we can to support preparedness, response and recovery efforts.” “Hurricane Florence has the potential to impact many Georgians as it makes landfall,” said Senator Perdue. “Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, and local authorities are preparing for the storm and will keep Georgians updated as the situation develops. To ensure everyone’s safety, including our first responders, please take this storm seriously and heed all advice from local, state, and federal officials.” Georgia Hurricane Resources: View up-to-date emergency declarations from Governor Deal here. View updates from Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency here. Download the Ready Georgia app for weather alerts and emergency preparedness tips. Follow Georgia 511 for real-time traffic information. Learn what to do before, during, and after a flood here. Report power outages by contacting your power provider. The two main providers in Georgia are: Georgia Power (contact here or at 888-891-0938) Georgia EMC (find your local branch here) Call your local non-emergency police line to report a downed tree in a main road. ###
09.10.2018	09.10.18 Senator David Perdue Commemorates 9/11 “We will never forget the innocent lives lost, nor the bravery of the first responders.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement ahead of the seventeenth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “September 11, 2001 was one of the darkest days in our country’s history. Out of that event, however, we saw the best of the American spirit. We will never forget the innocent lives lost, nor the bravery of the first responders. Our country is facing new and evolving threats, and the terrorist attacks on September 11th serve as a somber reminder that we must remain vigilant in defending the homeland. Thank you to the men and women in uniform who carry on the fight to protect our nation." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.06.2018	09.06.18 WTAS: State Officials From Georgia Support Judge Kavanaugh Send letters to U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ahead of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearing, state officials and elected leaders from Georgia sent letters to the United States Senate Judiciary Committee in support of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the United States Supreme Court: Governor Nathan Deal: “As Judge Kavanaugh stated in his remarks to the nation, his judicial philosophy is straightforward. He believes a judge must be independent and open-minded and must interpret the law as written. As his record shows, he will interpret the Constitution as written, informed by history, tradition, and precedent. Judge Kavanaugh will adjudicate legal disputes with impartiality, preserving the Constitution of the United States and the rule of law.” (7/25/2018) Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp: “Judge Kavanaugh exhibits all of the personal qualities that we must demand from our Supreme Court justices. He prioritizes his faith and family, raising two school-aged children with his wife, Ashley, and stands as a pillar in his community. In all circumstances, he exudes civility and respect for others. He is a man of unquestionable integrity and values. Throughout his career, Judge Kavanaugh has built consensus, decided cases based on fact and law with no regard for his personal preferences, and shown enduring respect for the text, structure, and authority of our Constitution. I strongly urge Judge Kavanaugh's timely confirmation to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States.” (8/2/2018) Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr: “Confirmation of Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court will have profound and long-lasting consequences for the people in our States. For too long we have suffered the ill effects of federal overreach as all three branches have at times exceeded the constitutional limits on their authority. Judge Kavanaugh will help reverse that trend by reviewing challenged laws and regulations with an eye to ensuring that all branches of our government act within their constitutionally assigned roles – regardless of which party is in power. A judiciary committed to the fundamental principles enshrined in the Constitution can ensure that the work being done now is safeguarded for decades to come.” (7/12/2018) 27 Georgia State Senators: “The role of a judge in our government is to interpret the law as it is written. Judge Kavanaugh – a fine mind, with impeccable credentials – is uniquely qualified to perform this function. With over 300 published opinions to his credit, a review of his body of work reveals a jurist who is dedicated to preserving the history, text, and structure, as well as the original understanding, of the Constitution. Judge Kavanaugh will make a fine addition to the United States Supreme Court.” (8/27/2018) 5 Georgia State Representatives: “Judge Kavanaugh’s commitment to his community, to mentorship and statesmanship, is unrivaled among American jurists. Judge Kavanaugh has a proven track record of strict constitutionalism. He applies the law as written. He is a judge who will enforce the text, structure and original understanding of the Constitution. Judge Kavanaugh believes ‘the judge’s job is to interpret the law, not to make the law or make policy.’ Rather, he reads statutes as written – mindful of history and tradition. In a time of political division, Judge Kavanaugh is a consensus builder who works with all stakeholders to assess cases based on the law rather than personal preference.” (8/24/2018) Watch U.S. Senator David Perdue’s floor speech in support of Judge Kavanaugh here. ###
09.06.2018	09.06.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Armed Services Chairmanship WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) being named chairman: “The Armed Services Committee has had a tough year. We will all miss John McCain’s leadership and guidance. When news broke about John, Jim immediately rose to the challenge and proved to all of us that he can successfully lead our committee. Not only is Jim committed to our committee, but he is also committed to working with President Trump to modernize our military capabilities and rebuild our armed forces after the previous administration’s disinvestment. Jim has the experience we need in a Chairman and will do a great job in leading our committee.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.30.2018	08.30.18 U.S. Senate Gets Results Working Through August Recess 87% of government funded, 43 nominees confirmed WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) highlights significant progress made in funding the government and confirming President Trump’s nominees by working through August: “Americans heard President Trump loud and clear when he said he would not sign another massive omnibus spending bill. That’s why we pushed for the Senate to work through August to avoid another last-minute spending battle. With extra time on the calendar, Congress has completed almost 90 percent of the federal government’s discretionary funding for next year. We’ve also confirmed 43 of the President’s nominees this month, which includes 15 lifetime-appointed federal judges. We’re on the right track, but there’s a lot more work to be done. Right now, we have a bicameral, bipartisan select committee that is working to fix this broken budget process once and for all. Congress has only fully funded the government on time four times in the past 44 years, and the last time was in 1996. We need to keep up the pace and get our job done for the American people.” Senate August Results: 87% of government funding bills passed 43 total nominees confirmed 15 lifetime-appointed judges confirmed to federal bench – including Judge Stan Baker from Georgia 26 executive branch nominees confirmed 2 tax court judges confirmed Major defense bill signed into law More than 287,000 pages processed for U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge Kavanaugh 25 bills and resolutions passed Procedural hurdle cleared to confirm eight additional judicial nominees before September 7 On May 10, Senator Perdue and 15 other senators sent a letter to Leader McConnell, pushing for the previously-scheduled August recess to be canceled in order to confirm President Trump’s nominees and fund the government before the end of the fiscal year on September 30th. On June 5, Leader McConnell updated the Senate calendar to extend the work period. ###
08.30.2018	08.30.18 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Remembers Senator John McCain “John was an American patriot. He was an American hero. He was a personal friend of mine.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recalls some of his greatest memories with Senator John McCain ahead of attending the memorial ceremony. On Friday, August 31, 2018, Senator McCain will lie in state at the United States Capitol, followed by a formal ceremony in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda at approximately 11:00am ET. Click here to watch. Highlights: Favorite Memory: “One of my greatest memories with John McCain was during my campaign. It was the first time I'd ever run for anything, and John came down to Georgia a month before our election. We were having a rally to honor veterans. John walked all the way across that auditorium, came up with tears in his eyes, and hugged a man that I had not been introduced to yet. It turns out, that man was a retired Air Force pilot who for a time was in the cell next to John McCain during his time in the Hanoi Hilton in Vietnam. It was an emotional moment for everybody in the auditorium. I’ll never forget it.” Advocate For Our Troops: “John McCain was Chairman of the Armed Services Committee while I was a member. I traveled to places like Afghanistan with John and saw how deeply he cared for the men and women in uniform.” American Patriot: “John was an American patriot. He was an American hero. He was a personal friend of mine.” Lifting Up Prayers: “My wife, Bonnie, and I send our best wishes and condolences to Cindy McCain and the entire family. I want them to know that they will be lifted up in our prayers.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.28.2018	08.28.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Confirmation of Baker to U.S. District Court Baker confirmed today to Georgia’s Southern District WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applaud the Senate confirmation of Judge R. Stan Baker, of St. Simons Island, GA, to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. The Senate approved his nomination by voice vote. “Judge Stan Baker is a great and talented Georgian who is well-qualified for this position. His work as a litigator and his service on the bench have provided him with a deep grasp of legal procedure, and his record of distinguished service to our state gives me confidence that he will continue to serve us well,” said Senator Isakson. “At his Senate hearing, Judge Baker confirmed what people in South Georgia already knew: He will bring to this role the same open-mindedness and fairness in his decision-making on the bench that he has delivered throughout his career.” “Judge Stan Baker has an exceptional legal background, and there is no doubt in my mind that he will continue to serve his state and country with integrity as a U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “I congratulate Judge Baker on his confirmation and applaud President Trump for selecting such an impressive Georgian to fill this seat on the federal bench.” Baker has served as an U.S. magistrate judge for the Southern District of Georgia since Feb. 3, 2015. Prior to his service on the bench, Baker was an attorney from 2009-2015 with The Jordan Firm, LLC, in St. Simons Island, and with Prior, Daniel, & Wiltshire, LLC, in Athens, GA, from 2006 to 2009. Baker litigated a wide range of civil, commercial, and criminal matters in state and federal courts. Baker also clerked for Judge William T. Moore, Jr., on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. Baker earned his undergraduate degree from Davidson College in Davidson, NC, and graduated from law school magna cum laude from the University of Georgia School of Law. “I am so deeply honored and grateful. Serving the people of the Southern District has been and will continue to be the greatest honor of my professional life,” said Judge Baker. “At a time like this, I can’t help but reflect upon the countless people that have believed in me and supported me throughout my life. This moment is as much of a product of their kindness, grace, and sacrifice as any talent I may possess or effort I may have expended.” Isakson and Perdue introduced Baker ahead of his nomination hearing in the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on Dec. 13, 2017. Baker was nominated to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia by President Trump on Sept. 7, 2017, and the nomination was approved in committee by a vote of 17-4 on Jan. 18, 2018. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Statement On Nomination Of Boulee To Northern District Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statements regarding President Trump’s announcement of his intent to nominate Judge J.P. Boulee of Decatur, Georgia, to fill a vacancy on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta: “In addition to his service on the Superior Court, Judge Boulee has served our country in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps and as an attorney,” said Senator Isakson. “He has earned his reputation as a fair judge who is hardworking, and he is respected on both sides of the political aisle. I look forward to working with Judge Boulee as his nomination proceeds in the Senate.” “Throughout his time as a Judge on the Superior Court of DeKalb County and as a JAG officer in the U.S. Army, Judge Boulee has served Georgia and the country with distinction,” said Senator Perdue. “President Trump has chosen an outstanding legal professional to fill this judicial vacancy in Georgia. Judge Boulee is immensely qualified for this role, and I am delighted to work with him through the confirmation process.” Boulee has served on the DeKalb County Superior Court since his appointment by Governor Nathan Deal in 2015, and he founded and presides over the county’s veterans treatment court. Boulee previously was a partner at Jones Day law firm. Boulee served as a captain in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General Corps from 1997-2001. He received his undergraduate degree from Washington and Lee University and his law degree from the University of Georgia School of Law. The White House press release on this annoucement can be found here.
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Senator David Perdue Hosts Georgia Military Advisory Meeting ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today held his second annual Strategic Military Advisory Group meeting. Senator Perdue was joined by former Secretary of the Navy William L. Ball, III, Major General Arnold Punaro, former Staff Director of the Senate Armed Services Committee under then-Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA), and leaders from each of Georgia’s military communities. “Georgia’s role in our national defense cannot be overstated,” said Senator Perdue. “Today, we brought together community leaders from each of our nine military installations for our second annual Strategic Military Advisory Group meeting. We discussed how each base is innovating to meet the needs of our 21st century warfighters and combat global threats, as well as ways to further Georgia’s critical role in our national defense. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and former member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I value this feedback. I appreciate these community leaders taking the time to share their thoughts and ideas, and for all they do to support our women and men in uniform and their families.” Governor’s Defense Initiative: “It is very timely for Senator Perdue to convene a roundtable with local leaders and officials from Georgia's defense communities. He has become a key member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, which has recently completed action on the National Defense Authorization Act for next year and which bolsters defense spending across each of the services significantly. He also has been closely advising the Secretary of Defense and the White House on national security issues. It was very helpful for all of us to gain the benefit of his perspectives on issues and future plans impacting the men and women who serve in Georgia, and who deploy around the world from installations and major commands operating in our state.” –William L. Ball, III, Director, Governor's Defense Initiative and former Secretary of the Navy Major General Arnold Punaro: “Georgia’s military ties and contributions have been, are now, and will be in the future essential to a strong national security. This event and Senator Perdue's priorities clearly show that he understands the vital link to Georgia bases’ long-term viability. Georgia only lost bases in one of the five previous BRAC rounds, and even then we walked away with a net increase of 5,200 jobs. This is a testament to the vital role Georgia plays in our national security, as well as to the hard work of local and state leaders advocating for their communities. It is also a testament to the importance of continually assessing the strengths and weaknesses of each of Georgia’s bases, as Senator Perdue has brought us together to do.” –Major General Arnold Punaro (USMC, Retired), former Staff Director of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee under then-Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) 21st Century Partnership: “Robins Air Force Base and Georgia's eight other military organizations are a bedrock of Georgia’s economic success and more importantly, the lynch pin to our nation's defense strategy. We are sincerely grateful to Senator Perdue, and our entire congressional delegation, for their tireless efforts in preserving and enhancing our installations and the overall defense of this great nation. The missions we have here in Georgia represent the best of our country and the workforce they produce strengthens all industries in Georgia. This event is a wonderful opportunity to move Georgia forward by strengthening our cutting-edge missions and the communities that support them. We are honored to have been invited and enjoyed a fruitful discussion with our counterparts on how we can expand the national defense impact both inside and outside the installations.” –Chrissy Miner, President & CEO, 21st Century Partnership Albany Area Chamber of Commerce and Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission: “Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany is vital to the readiness of the U.S. Marine Corps, and critical to the economy of Albany and Southwest Georgia. We appreciate Senator Perdue's partnership in strengthening Georgia's military communities.” –Bárbara Rivera Holmes, President & CEO, Albany Area Chamber of Commerce and Justin Strickland, President, Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission Cobb Chamber of Commerce: “I want to thank Senator Perdue and his staff for their continued focus and dedication to support Georgia’s military bases and for hosting this important Strategic Military Advisory Group meeting. While we in Cobb are most focused on supporting the mission of Dobbins ARB, the Atlanta region’s only U.S. military installation, we always appreciate the opportunity to work with and learn from our fellow military community partners around our state. Georgia’s bases are huge economic development assets and the Cobb Chamber thanks Senator Perdue for the active role he has taken to support and protect Dobbins ARB and all of Georgia’s military installations.” –Sharon Mason, President and CEO, Cobb Chamber of Commerce CSRA Alliance for Fort Gordon: “Georgia and the entire Fort Gordon Cyber District region is blessed to have such a strong military presence. We want to thank Senator Perdue for always being a strong advocate for Georgia’s military installations. The Alliance for Fort Gordon is blessed to advocate for Fort Gordon. Fort Gordon is a globally-engaged, multi-mission, multi-service military installation providing support across the wide spectrum of training, operational, and sustainment missions. The installation is home to the U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence, a single Army institution responsible for the full Doctrine, Organizational, Training, Material, Leader & Professional Development, and Facilities (DOTMLPF) across the Army’s Cyber, Signal, and Electronic Warfare career fields, the National Security Agency–Georgia, and future home of U.S. Army Cyber Command Headquarters (Summer 2020). Thank you, Senator Perdue, and thank you to the outstanding men and women of our military!” –Dr. Tom Clark, Executive Director, CSRA Alliance for Fort Gordon Greater Columbus Georgia Chamber of Commerce: “The Department of Defense impacts Georgia in excess of $20 billion a year. In the Columbus Region, Fort Benning provides an annual financial impact of some $4.8 billion. While this is important, the way our community embraces service members and their families is even more important. Like he did last year, Senator Perdue has provided an opportunity for various defense partners to discuss lessons learned, successes, and best practice strategies on a number of topics, such as teaming, contracting instruments, BRAC preparation, drawdowns, and mission growth. Today’s meeting provided a venue to exchange ideas about how we, in concert with our local, regional, and national leadership, can better collaborate and positively impact Georgia’s role in our national defense.” –Brian Anderson, President and CEO, Greater Columbus Georgia Chamber of Commerce Southeast Georgia Friends of Fort Stewart and Hunter: “Fort Stewart/Hunter Army Airfield is touted as the Army's Premier Power Projection Platform on the East Coast. This Army Community of Excellence Award Winner will continue to provide unmatched service to the nation. The Southeast Georgia Friends of Fort Stewart and Hunter organization greatly appreciates all the assistance Senator Perdue, his staff, and the other members of the Georgia delegation garner from the federal government to assist the base and the local communities. We are always happy to sit down and discuss with the delegation and our counterparts at other installations ways to make things better.” –Paul Andreshak, Executive Director, Southeast Georgia Friends of Fort Stewart and Hunter The Camden Partnership: “I can’t express my gratitude to Senator Perdue enough for bringing together all the individuals who advocate for the military installations across Georgia. It is so important to talk with one another and ensure that each of us are doing the best we can to support our bases. The mission at Kings Bay is a top issue for the Defense Department. We need to do all we can to support that mission. In Camden County, Kings Bay is by far, the largest employer. An economic impact study done just a couple of years ago showed that the base brings in $1.142 billion in total economic output. That same study tells us that 20% of Camden County’s population is linked to a military retiree. Having Kings Bay in our community has made us all more aware that our freedom comes only from the courage and resilience of our military. We must, as a state, do everything we can to support them.” –Sheila McNeill, President, The Camden Partnership ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Breakthrough In US-Mexico Trade Talks ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the preliminary trade agreement reached between the United States and Mexico: “President Trump is focused on getting results and creating a more level playing field with the rest of the world. I am very encouraged by the breakthroughs made in trade negotiations with Mexico, and hopeful Canada will come back to the table. Our economy has evolved in the past 24 years since NAFTA was signed. The Trump Administration is working to get a better deal that will help American workers and businesses compete. President Trump deserves a great deal of credit for making sure that America is treated fairly and is the best place in the world to do business.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.27.2018	
08.24.2018	08.24.18 Senator David Perdue Seeks Answers After Report Of Dangerous Lead Levels At Fort Benning “Families are the backbone of the military. We owe it to our men and women in uniform to ensure their families have access to safe and comfortable housing on base.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, seeks answers following a Reuters report on August 16 detailing lead poisoning and dangerous lead levels in housing on U.S. Army installations, including Georgia’s Fort Benning: Friday, August 17 – Senator Perdue was joined by U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Mark Warner (D-VA) in sending a letter to Secretary of the Army Mark Esper raising concerns about the report. “We write to you today concerned about recent reports of lead poisoning at a number of Army installations. The health and safety of our service members and their families are of the utmost importance,” the senators wrote. “We ask that you provide our offices with a detailed briefing as soon as possible outlining the immediate and long-term mitigation strategy to keep military families safe, provide medical treatment for those potentially or previously affected, make long-lasting repairs, and finally, provide legislative proposals or guidance on legislation needed to hold maintenance contractors accountable.” Click here for full text of the letter. Tuesday, August 21 – In a Senate Armed Services hearing, Senator Perdue submitted a question for the record regarding the report of dangerous lead levels at Fort Benning to Mr. Alex Beehler, nominee to be Assistant Secretary of the Army for Energy, Installations, and Environment. Here’s the full question: “Mr. Beehler, a recent Reuters investigative report outlines multiple instances of lead paint poisoning occurring aboard Army installations across the country. The report specifically highlights occurrences at Fort Benning. Five out of five homes tested at Benning had hazardous levels of deteriorating lead paints. At least 31 small children tested high for lead at the Fort Benning hospital in a six-year period. From 2011 to 2016, blood tests from bases across the Army registered more than 1,050 small children who tested above the CDC’s elevated threshold. Many of our bases have on-base housing managed and operated largely through private partnerships and our families and children are being put at risk. If confirmed, what recommendations do you have for action to ensure our installations are safe for our families to live?” Thursday, August 23 – Senators Perdue and Isakson, joined by a bipartisan group of senators, secured an amendment to the FY19 defense funding bill requiring the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on the monitoring and remediation of lead and verifiable compliance with lead exposure limits in military housing. “Families are the backbone of the military. We owe it to our men and women in uniform to ensure their families have access to safe and comfortable housing on base, especially here on American soil,” said Senator Perdue. “I am concerned with the recent reports that military families and children have been exposed to dangerous lead conditions at Fort Benning and other installations across the country. We are actively working to get more information from the Army, so we can chart the best path forward and improve the safety of on-base housing at Fort Benning and beyond.” Click here for full text of the amendment. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.24.2018	08.24.18 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Celebrates 25th Anniversary Of Perdue Elementary WARNER ROBINS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) shared the following video recognizing the 25th anniversary of David A. Perdue Elementary School, which was named after his father, David A. Perdue Sr., in August 1993. Mr. Perdue was a longtime educator and served as Superintendent of the Houston County School System for nearly 20 years. Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: “I’m David Perdue, the junior United States Senator from Georgia. David A. Perdue Sr. was my father. He and my mother, Gervaise Perdue, dedicated their lives to the education of the children of Houston County. I’m so grateful for this celebration of 25 years of Perdue Elementary School. “My father was born right down Highway 96 in Bonaire. He spent his whole life in Houston County except when he was in Europe during World War II and in Korea during the Korean War. My father graduated there in Houston County and graduated from Mercer University. He came back and was principal in Bonaire and principal of Lindsey Elementary School and Warner Robins High School before becoming Superintendent of Houston County Schools, where he was Superintendent for 20 years. “In 1961 when he started and the next 20 years, Houston County saw explosive growth, adding 12 schools and rebuilding Warner Robins High School, as a matter of fact, after it burned down. It was an explosive period. I think the thing he was most proud of was that he and the Board of Education and the principals, teachers, and staff of the Houston County School System integrated the school system without event. He was so proud of the fact that he did it early, he did it because it was the right thing to do, and I know that was a crowning achievement in his career. “He would be so proud of what Principal Andy Payne and the faculty and teachers today and prior teachers and principals and staff of Perdue Elementary, what you’ve been doing for the children. I think if my dad were with us tonight, he’d say one thing: it’s not about the building, it’s not about whose name is on the building, it’s not about who the principal is, or who the teachers are. It’s really about the children. Thank you so much for what you guys do for the kids of Houston County. God bless you, God bless Georgia, and God bless the United States of America.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.23.2018	08.23.18 Senator David Perdue: The Goal Is To Get The Entire Job Done WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on passage of the third package of 2019 funding bills, including critical defense funding: “Today, the Senate funded critical defense priorities to strengthen our military’s capabilities and provide long-term certainty for our men and women in uniform. With this funding package, Congress will have completed 90 percent of the federal government’s discretionary funding for next year. This is a step forward, but it’s still not good enough. The goal is to get the entire job done. In March, President Trump was clear when he said he will not sign another massive omnibus bill. We pushed for the Senate to work through August to avoid another last-minute spending battle. We are making progress, but there is more work to do.” Senator Perdue is leading a push to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and President Trump’s nominees to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year on September 30. On May 10, a group of 16 senators sent a letter to Leader McConnell. On June 5, Leader McConnell updated the Senate calendar to extend the work period. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.23.2018	08.23.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Seek Answers About Dangerous Lead Levels On Military Bases Amendment to defense funding bill would require report on lead exposure in on-base housing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), and a bipartisan group of senators filed an amendment to the FY19 defense funding bill in response to a recent report about lead poisonings and dangerous lead levels in housing on U.S. Army installations that is potentially endangering military families. The amendment would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on the monitoring and remediation of lead and verifiable compliance with lead exposure limits in military housing. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Mark Warner (D-VA) also signed on to the amendment. “The recent reports regarding lead poisoning in some military housing units is disturbing and must absolutely be corrected,” said Senator Isakson, who serves as chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “Our military families sacrifice greatly in service to our country, and it is our responsibility to do everything we can to ensure their safety, especially in homes the military provides for them. In addition to the information we’ve requested from the U.S. Army to ensure proper treatment, remediation and accountability plans moving forward, I’ve offered this amendment to learn as much as we can about this dangerous exposure to prevent future poisoning and protect our military families going forward.” “Families are the backbone of the military. We owe it to our men and women in uniform to ensure their families have access to safe and comfortable housing on base, especially here on American soil,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I am concerned with the recent reports that military families and children have been exposed to dangerous lead conditions at Fort Benning and other installations across the country. We are actively working to get more information from the Army, so we can chart the best path forward and improve the safety of on-base housing at Fort Benning and beyond.” “I am very proud to support this amendment to require the monitoring of lead levels in military housing,” said Senator Gillibrand, ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee. “Exposure to lead can be extremely harmful, especially to children, and Congress has a responsibility to do what it can to ensure that lead contamination in military housing is found and removed. Our service members and their families make incredible sacrifices for our country, and they should be able to have the peace of mind that their homes are safe and lead-free.” “Military families should not be in danger in their homes on military bases,” said Senator Kaine, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The recent reports on lead poisonings are concerning, but we still don’t know the full extent of the problem. Last week I asked the Army for a briefing on the reports, and this amendment will help us understand the scope of the problem to monitor and track efforts to eliminate this risk to military families.” “Our servicemembers and their families sacrifice so much to serve this nation and we need to make sure we’re doing all that we can to keep them safe both at home and abroad—so reports that we’re falling short of that commitment by exposing children on Army bases to lead poisoning need to be addressed immediately,” said Senator McCaskill, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This bipartisan effort is an important first step to help right this wrong.” “It is unacceptable when those who risk everything to serve our nation cannot feel safe in their own homes on base. Our amendment would ensure accountability from the Department of Defense regarding its efforts to address dangerous lead exposure in military housing and help guarantee an effective response, while also providing greater peace of mind to our military families,” said Senator Paul. “Servicemembers and their families should feel safe when living in on-base housing. I’m proud to support this critical amendment that will ensure our troops are provided with the safe living environment that they deserve,” said Senator Warner. While the sale of lead-based paint is banned in the United States, many walls in older homes still have the old paint, which can become dangerous to children as it peels and chips. Young children are most susceptible to lead poisoning, which can cause long-term developmental delays. A Reuters report highlights cases of lead poisoning at on-base housing at Fort Benning, Georgia; Fort Knox, Kentucky; Fort Polk, Louisiana; Fort Bliss, Texas; Fort Hood, Texas; and a 2015 Department of Defense Inspector General report that found lead paint hazards at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. On August 17, Senators Isakson, Perdue, Kaine, and Warner sent a letter to U.S. Army Secretary Mark Esper raising concerns over the report on lead. Further, they asked the secretary to provide a detailed briefing about what the Army is doing to keep military families safe and what the Army needs from Congress to address this problem. ###
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Senator David Perdue Introduces Warner Robins General In Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced the Honorable Robert McMahon, of Warner Robins, Georgia, nominee to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment, in his confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee. Click here to watch, and click here to download a photo. Transcript: “It is my high honor to introduce a friend of mine, the Honorable Robert (Bob) McMahon, to serve as the first Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment. Assistant Secretary McMahon has honorably served as the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness since November of last year, and if confirmed, will soon be taking on an expanded role. “General McMahon brings to the table 39 years of proven leadership while in uniform, in business, and in nonprofit service to his country and his community, which happens to be my hometown of Warner Robins, Georgia. I have known the General for a number of years, and he has distinguished himself as a true servant leader and pillar of support for the local base, our community, and the entire military. “Before retiring from the Air Force, General McMahon served as Commander of Warner Robins Air Logistics Center. His time in the Air Force shows a track record of proven leadership and mission-impacting success. For the past nine months, he has been in charge of logistics and materiel readiness, and served as the principal logistics officer for the Department of Defense. “Due to a reorganization of his role, he will now serve, if confirmed, as the principal advisor on all sustainment issues for the DOD. Strong leadership is needed in this role as we face a significant readiness crisis, aging facilities in need of modernization, and operations across the globe requiring logistics and strategic sustainment in a world of forward deployment. “General McMahon is ready to tackle this challenge, and I have confidence he will work to reshape the Pentagon’s policies to ensure that our war fighters are properly supplied and have their equipment and materiel reliably available and maintained. Given his passion for the military, his service to his country, and his patriotism, I know that General McMahon will continue to serve the Department and the nation well, and I look forward to confirming him for this expanded responsibility.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Senator David Perdue: Prioritizing America’s Energy Independence WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds the Trump Administration’s action to replace Obama-era energy regulations with the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) proposal: “Prioritizing America’s energy independence is a key component of President Trump’s plan to get the economy going again. Low cost energy is essential to keeping us competitive with other countries. By rolling back stifling, Obama-era regulations, the Trump Administration is giving power back to the States to decide what’s best for their industries. It’s refreshing to have a President who is committed to fighting for American workers and growing the economy, instead of a political agenda.” Senator Perdue opposed the Obama Administration’s overreaching “Clean Power Plan” introduced in 2015 and applauded President Trump last year for dismantling the Obama-era regulations on coal-fired power plants. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Senator David Perdue To ICE Heroes: We Appreciate What You Do WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Shannon Bream on Fox News @ Night to discuss the critical role U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) plays in our national security. Click here to watch. Highlights: Backing Heroes Of ICE: "President Trump’s message to the men and women of ICE is very clear: We have your backs, and we appreciate what you do." Extreme Obstructionism: “The Democrats have taken such an extreme position [to abolish ICE] that’s not in line with most Americans’ viewpoints.” Protecting Americans: “There’s a candidate for Attorney General in New York talking about prosecuting ICE. That really is an un-American position. Some Democrats are more worried about the people who perpetrated the crimes than they are about protecting Americans.” Country Of Laws: “America is a country of laws. President Trump’s first responsibility is to protect American citizens and protect and defend the Constitution. He takes that very seriously." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade, Funding & National Security On Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins David Westin and Shery Ahn on Bloomberg TV live from the White House to discuss trade, government funding, the debt crisis, and the critical role U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) plays in our national security. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Honoring Heroes Of ICE: “The men and women of ICE put their lives on the line every day. About one million people a day cross our borders in one fashion or another, and 90 percent of the people that ICE detained last year were convicted of a crime. ICE is protecting our personal and national security.” Getting Results On Trade: “We have an updated free trade agreement with South Korea. We may be weeks away from a revised NAFTA agreement with Mexico and Canada. We have the European Union talking about moving toward zero tariffs. We’re getting the results President Trump is going after, and that’s equal access on trade. We want a level playing field for our manufacturers, our agriculture producers, and all of our workers in America.” Senate Session This August: “Over the last 44 years, since the 1974 Budget Act was put in place, Congress has only averaged 2.5 appropriations bills per year. To fund the government, you need to pass 12. We have a lot of work to do. The reason the Senate is in session this August is to get the government funded on time.” Past The Tipping Point: “The federal government will spend $150 billion more in interest payments this year than we did last year. By 2023, unless we do something, we’re going to be spending more on interest on our national debt than on our national defense. The President wants to solve this debt crisis. He’s been working on it over the last year and a half by growing the economy.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.20.2018	08.20.18 Senator David Perdue Stands With Heroes Of ICE & Border Patrol At White House WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) participated in a panel discussion at the White House about the critical role U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) play in our national security. Following the panel, Senator Perdue joined President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Secretary of Homeland Security Nielsen in saluting ICE and CBP officers. Last month, Senator Perdue introduced a Senate resolution supporting ICE. Click here to watch. (From R-L: Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall, Senator David Perdue, Sheriff Mark Dannels, Deputy Director of ICE Ron Vitiello, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey) Highlights Standing With ICE: “When an elected official says they want to get rid of ICE or the CBP, I think they’ve failed their oath of office. It’s unconscionable and frankly, I think it’s downright unpatriotic.” Highly Regarded: “The men and women of ICE and CBP have had a pretty rough road the past six weeks. I think this is totally inappropriate. I just want everyone in those two organizations to know how highly thought of they are by most people in America and the U.S. Senate.” Fighting For All Americans: “I’ve been a part of some large private organizations before getting into this job. I’ve always learned that it’s about the tone at the top. President Trump has demonstrated that he’s here fighting for ordinary Americans.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.17.2018	08.17.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Ask Army For Plan To Address Dangerous Lead Levels Seek answers following recent report regarding on-base housing, including at Georgia’s Fort Benning WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today sent a letter along with Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Mark Warner (D-VA) to the secretary of the U.S. Army raising concerns over a recent report about lead poisonings and dangerous lead levels in housing on U.S. Army installations, including Fort Benning, Georgia, which are endangering military families. “We write to you today concerned about recent reports of lead poisoning at a number of Army installations. The health and safety of our service members and their families are of the utmost importance,” the senators wrote. While the sale of lead-based paint is banned in the United States, many older homes still have the old paint on walls, which can become dangerous to children as it peels and chips. Young children are most susceptible to lead poisoning and face long-term developmental delays. The report highlights cases of lead poisoning at on-base housing at Fort Benning, Georgia, Fort Knox, Kentucky, Fort Polk, Louisiana, Fort Bliss, Texas, Fort Hood, Texas, and a 2015 Department of Defense Inspector General report that found lead paint hazards at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. In the letter, the senators ask Army Secretary Mark Esper to provide a detailed briefing about what the Army is doing to keep military families safe and what they need from Congress to address this problem. “We ask that you provide our offices with a detailed briefing as soon as possible outlining the immediate and long-term mitigation strategy to keep military families safe, provide medical treatment for those potentially or previously affected, make long-lasting repairs, and finally, provide legislative proposals or guidance on legislation needed to hold maintenance contractors accountable,” the senators concluded. Click here for full text of the letter. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.17.2018	08.17.18 Senators To Fed: Provide Real Relief For Midsized Banks Immediately WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, is joined by his colleagues, U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), James Lankford (R-OK), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Mike Rounds (R-SD), in urging the Federal Reserve to provide immediate regulatory relief for regional banks that do not pose a systemic risk to our financial system. The recent enacted Dodd-Frank Relief Act raised the asset threshold to $250 billion for systemically important financial institutions and granted the Fed flexibility to tailor risk regulations based on banks’ activities rather than their assets. However, last month, the Fed caused concern when it indicated banks with $100 billion to $250 billion in assets may not receive substantive relief from Dodd-Frank enhanced prudential regulations. “We are confused by your intent to continue to broadly apply Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) stress tests and other enhanced supervision regulations designed for systemically important financial institutions on non-systemic financial companies,” write the senators. “Congress did not ask the Fed to create a third layer of treatment between financial institutions above and below $100 billion in total assets. Rather, Congress acknowledged faults with the existing post-financial crisis laws that swept non-systemic firms into advanced regulatory categories and further empowered the Fed to tailor the regulations to address individual risk-profiles of financial companies. "The Fed has consistently made representations to both Congress and the public that it has and will use its powers to tailor regulations to the appropriate risk profile,” continue the senators. “Therefore, we urge you to tailor regulations for these financial companies and where your data indicates that they do not pose systemic risks, we strongly urge you to reduce regulations so that all non-systemic firms are treated accordingly." Read the full letter here.
08.16.2018	08.16.18 Senator David Perdue: Getting Close Is Not Good Enough WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) speaks on the Senate floor to encourage his colleagues to pick up the work pace in order to fund the government before the end of the fiscal year, September 30: Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: What It’s Really About: “This was never about staying here in August. It was only about two things. It was about trying to use every day to get as many nominees confirmed as we could, and to fund the government by the end of the fiscal year.” Not Good Enough: “Getting close is not good enough. In the real world, if you don’t get the whole job done, you don’t get to compete, and when you don’t compete, you don’t survive.” Working Mondays And Fridays: “We have several opportunities. Right now, we’ve got 12 working days the way the Senate normally works, but if we work and vote on Mondays and Fridays, we pick up another 15 days. That’s 27 working days—now we have a better fighting chance.” Getting The Job Done: “It is an honor and privilege to be in the United States Senate, but this is an even bigger honor when we get our job done." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.16.2018	08.16.18 Senator David Perdue Speaks In Support Of Judge Kavanaugh WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) speaks in support of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the United States Supreme Court: Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Accomplished Jurist: “Judge Kavanaugh is an accomplished, experienced jurist with over 300 published opinions. More than 50 Circuit Court opinions cite one of his concurrences or dissents, and the Supreme Court has actually endorsed his opinions more than a dozen times.” Years Of Service: “Judge Kavanaugh has dedicated his life to public service, serving in various roles in the executive branch under President George W. Bush and for the last 12 years on the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.” Positive Impact: “Just last week, one of Judge Kavanaugh’s earliest clerks was sworn in to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. That judge is Judge Britt Grant, a native Georgian. Judge Grant clerked for Judge Kavanaugh, served on Georgia’s Supreme Court and was elected to a full term without opposition. She is now a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals. Judge Kavanaugh introduced her when she was sworn in to the Georgia Supreme Court, and he swore her into the Court of Appeals last week. Judge Grant and Judge Kavanaugh are where they are today because of their years of service and work to uphold the U.S. Constitution.” Blind Partisanship: “Even with Judge Kavanaugh’s outstanding qualifications that transcend party lines, some of my colleagues across the aisle are already hysterically opposing him. In fact, some of my colleagues promised to vote against the nominee before Judge Kavanaugh had even officially been nominated. That kind of blind partisanship is exactly what the American people find unacceptable about Washington." Confirm Judge Kavanaugh: “I give Judge Kavanaugh my fullest, unreserved recommendation, and I encourage my colleagues to vote for his confirmation.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.15.2018	08.15.18 Senator David Perdue: “1200 in 12” Will Bring New Jobs To Robins AFB WARNER ROBINS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins Brigadier General John Kubinec, commander of the Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex, in announcing the “1200 in 12” initiative to hire 1,200 new employees at Robins Air Force Base in the next 12 months. Click here to download photos. “Growing up in Warner Robins, I learned early on what an important role Robins Air Force Base plays in our national defense,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Robins’ success would not be possible without its outstanding workforce. Today’s jobs announcement of ‘1200 in 12’ is the result of many hard-fought efforts. The Air Force recognizes the value of depots, and now Robins has three new work assignments – the Global Hawk, JSTARS, and Navy C-130. With these new work assignments comes the need for more manpower, and through Direct Hire Authority, new team members will be brought on board faster. This investment in the Air Logistics Complex, combined with a new Advanced Battle Management System mission on the horizon, makes this an exciting time to be at Robins. Thank you to General Kubinec, the 21st Century Partnership, and the Warner Robins community for all of your hard work to make this happen.” “It’s safe to say this has been the most consequential year for new workload at Robins in decades,” said Brigadier General John Kubinec. “What makes all this new work possible is the professionalism and patriotism of our world-class workforce. Without them and their commitment to our nation’s defense, there is no Air Power. But to continue to be successful as we grow this new workload, we also have to grow our workforce. That’s why we’re announcing the start of our campaign to hire 1,200 new employees in the Air Logistics Complex in the next 12 months. These 1,200 new employees are needed to meet our projected workload in the next fiscal year, and I believe this is only the beginning of the growth here at Robins. Thanks to the aggressive work of the U.S. Senate and House Armed Services Committees, we now have Direct Hire Authority, which allows us to hire these new employees much faster than in the past.” For more information about job opportunities at Robins Air Force Base, visit www.workatrobins.com. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.13.2018	08.13.18 President Trump Signs Major Defense Bill Into Law Bill includes more than 30 priorities important to Georgia’s military community ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump signing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law today: “Today, President Trump signed the defense bill that will deliver the tools our armed forces need to protect Americans at home and abroad. President Trump has shown he is committed to modernizing our capabilities and ensuring the United States has the strongest military in the world. Earlier this year, Secretary Mattis started the first audit of the Department of Defense in history. This review will make sure the Pentagon’s resources are spent responsibly as our women and men in uniform combat evolving threats around the globe. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a member of the select Conference Committee that finalized this defense authorization, I am very pleased that Congress is backing up President Trump’s commitment to rebuild our military.” Senator Perdue’s provisions address a range of issues from bringing new missions to Georgia’s military community and safeguarding U.S. military technology to improved base conditions and medical care for service members. Here are some highlights: Expedites New Mission To Georgia: Provides funding for the new Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS), which gives our military the capability to access both restricted and non-restricted airspace. The Air Force has announced that ABMS will be hosted at Robins Air Force Base. Accelerates Advanced Battle Management System: Accelerates funding for the development of new and critical technologies for the Air Force’s Advanced Battle Management System at Robins Air Force Base. Extends JSTARS: Prohibits the retirement of any aircraft in the JSTARS fleet, provides funding for full manning, maintenance, and operations for the full fleet for FY19, and creates a plan for the next ten years. It also secures funding for critical upgrades to enhance the operability and service life of the fleet. Re-wings A-10 Aircraft: Secures an additional $65 million for the re-winging of A-10 aircraft, some of which are based at Moody Air Force Base. Upgrades C-130 Aircraft: Expands support for legacy C-130 aircraft with an additional $129 million for engine upgrades and $154 million for propeller upgrades which will be done at Robins Air Force Base. Repeals Compass Call FY17 Requirement: Repeals a requirement from the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act that has caused work stoppages and impacted Georgian workers. Promotes Military Spouse Employment: Multiple provisions address issues with low rates of military spouse employment and provide better access to beneficial programs that will help military spouses navigate the challenges of military life while supporting their families and their service members. Preserves ZTE Procurement Ban: Includes an amendment to preserve the U.S. Commerce Department’s export control authority and prohibit the federal government from purchasing ZTE and Huawei products in order to ensure the security of our military communication systems. Supports Submarine Industrial Base: Includes $250 million for the revitalization and long-term sustainment of the Columbia Class submarine industrial base that will benefit Georgia companies and King’s Bay, Georgia. Restores Military Travel: Repeals a damaging cut to the per diem of our service members and federal employees conducting official long-term travel that has negatively impacted those individuals and the businesses and communities serving them. Creates Military Construction Pilot Program: Establishes a pilot program that allows our depots to have more flexibility in the funding of critical infrastructure projects to support readiness. Supports Georgia Industries: Ensures funding for a wide range of military equipment that is produced by businesses across the state of Georgia and includes authorizations for multi-year procurement contracts that will keep production lines open. Establishes Cyber Institutes: Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish Cyber Institutes at colleges and universities with Reserve Officers’ Training Corps across the country, with a preference for Senior Military Colleges, to help ensure a robust cyber pipeline for Active Duty, Guard, and Reservists. Holds Bureaucrats Accountable: Continues to provide crucial oversight of the Department of Defense’s financial audit and requires reviews of defense agencies to ensure transparency, accountability, and the best use of taxpayer dollars. Secures Critical Technologies: Protects critical technologies necessary for national security from falling into the hands of our global competitors and requires further investigation into industrial espionage and cyber theft conducted by China. Enhances Medical Care For Service Members: Secures funding for important medical research, development, and pilot programs that will enhance the care given to our service members at home and abroad. Safeguards Online Marketplace: Ensures fair competition in the creation of an efficient and effective online marketplace to be used by Department of Defense. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Senator David Perdue Tours Plant Vogtle WAYNESBORO, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visits Vogtle Electric Generating Plant in Waynesboro, Georgia, to see construction on Vogtle Units 3 & 4 and discuss the Nuclear Production Tax Credit with employees. Click here to download photos. "Unleashing our full energy potential is a key component of President Trump's plan to get the economy going," said Senator Perdue. "Nuclear energy is essential to our domestic energy production and national security. Earlier this week, Georgia Power ensured construction on Vogtle Units 3 & 4 will continue without increasing rates for consumers. This project will make Plant Vogtle home to the first new nuclear units built in the United States in more than 30 years. This year, we successfully extended the Nuclear Production Tax Credit to make sure projects like Vogtle 3 & 4 stay on track. Thanks to everyone at Georgia Power and Plant Vogtle for your work on this critical project." "We are grateful to Senator Perdue for his support of the Vogtle project at the federal level, and his continued leadership on behalf of the state of Georgia," said Paul Bowers, chairman, president and CEO of Georgia Power. "The new Vogtle units represent the future of nuclear energy in the United States and, once online, will serve millions of Georgians for 60 to 80 years into the future." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Senator David Perdue Addresses Augusta Exchange Club AUGUSTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins the Exchange Club of Augusta to discuss recent tax changes and regulatory rollbacks, Augusta’s role in our nation’s cybersecurity, and Georgia’s business-friendly climate. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “For five consecutive years, Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business,” said Senator Perdue. “Our state’s success is in large part due to the work of groups like the Exchange Club of Augusta. They help create Georgia’s business-friendly climate that continues to attract some of the country’s most successful companies and bring more jobs to the state. The Exchange Club demonstrates true leadership and offers numerous ways for its members to give back. Thank you to President Mike Duckworth and the entire Exchange Club for welcoming us today and for your commitment to improving our community.” “The Exchange Club of Augusta is proud to have Senator David Perdue, a distinguished leader in both the business and political worlds, speaking at our club,” said Mike Duckworth, President of the Exchange Club of Augusta. “Senator Perdue’s committee memberships in the United States Senate are vital to our local economy and regional growth, and we appreciate him taking the time to visit with us. Since 1922, our club has been built on fellowship amongst the business leaders in the community who give back through our charitable events including the annual Georgia Carolina State Fair and the Augusta Charity Classic Golf Tournament, and Senator Perdue is certainly emblematic of those guiding principles. It is imperative we continue have leaders in Washington like Senator Perdue.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Senator David Perdue Visits Fort Gordon AUGUSTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, visits Fort Gordon to receive a cybersecurity briefing, tour the facility, and meet with personnel. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “It’s an exciting time to visit Fort Gordon and see the growth of the base as they work to train and equip the next generation of cyber warriors,” said Senator Perdue. “With the Army Cyber Center of Excellence, NSA Georgia, Georgia Cyber Center, and soon, the Army Cyber Command, Augusta has established itself as the nation’s cybersecurity capital. Our adversaries have proven they are committed to using cyberwarfare to attack our economy and threaten our national security. We must be prepared, and advancements here in Georgia help our military respond to this rapidly emerging threat. Thank you to the men and women of Fort Gordon and the Augusta community for all you do for our country.” “I thank Senator Perdue for his visit to Fort Gordon – it is always a great opportunity when members of Congress have a chance to see first-hand our servicemen and women conducting operations and training as well as the tremendous mission growth occurring at Fort Gordon,” said Maj. Gen. John B. Morrison, Jr., U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence and Fort Gordon Commanding General. “We are very appreciative for all the support our Army and Fort Gordon receives from Congress.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.08.2018	08.08.18 Senator David Perdue: This Is About Conservative Values WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke at Erick Erickson’s Resurgent Gathering about conservative values and changing Washington. Click here or below to read more coverage of Senator Perdue’s remarks. Highlights: Founding Principles: “This is about conservative values, and that’s why I ran for the U.S. Senate. My first job was at a Head Start program. I grew up on a farm. My mom and dad were school teachers. So I understand the value of being fiscally responsible, having a limited government, economic opportunity for everybody, and individual liberty. It’s no more complicated than that.” Producing Economic Prosperity: “That ethos – big government, more spending – has failed. We have had a 100-year slide towards socialism, and we have a President in the White House now who’s trying to turn this around. In a year and a half, we’ve already demonstrated that if we pull back on regulations, become reasonable on taxes, unleash our energy potential, and get rid of overreaching banking rules, guess what happens? We have economic prosperity.” Focusing On Results: “Congress really does work, but not always on the priorities. Activity does not correlate to results. I can’t debate Social Security on the floor of the United States Senate. We’re supposed to be the greatest deliberative body in the world and I can’t get a debate on Social Security on the floor, but we spent days three years ago talking about catfish.” Changing Washington: “I saw one thing in 2014. My message was this, and it came from my heart: Washington is broken. If you want different results, you’ve got to send a different type of person up there.” Draining The Swamp: “Last year, we passed a bill that let the VA fire people for not doing their job. They’ve fired 1,550 people for non-performance. This year, I have a bill called the MERIT Act to do the same thing for all federal agencies.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.06.2018	08.06.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Action To Hold Iran Accountable ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Trump Administration’s action to re-impose sanctions that were lifted under the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump is right to apply maximum pressure on Iran. It’s clear that the Iranian regime has no intention of ending their support of terrorism, development of nuclear weapons, and aggressive behavior in the region. Reinstating these sanctions will create real financial consequences for Iran’s irresponsible activity and counter the regime’s regional influence. Earlier this year, I supported President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the weak, poorly-negotiated Iran Deal. The Trump Administration is putting pressure on Iran to bring them back to the table and ensure they never possess a nuclear weapon.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.06.2018	08.06.18 Senators Express Concerns Over China’s “Debt Trap” Diplomacy With Developing Countries WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) led a bipartisan group of 15 senators expressing concern over potential bailout requests to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) by countries who have accepted predatory Chinese infrastructure financing. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the senators ask how the Trump Administration plans to address the dangers of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). “As financially strapped countries negotiate with China to free themselves of mounting debt, Beijing has extracted onerous concessions, including equity in strategically important assets,” the Senators wrote. “Further, Beijing has repeatedly used economic pressure to affect foreign policy decisions. “It is apparent that…the goal for the [Belt and Road Initiative] is the creation of an economic world order ultimately dominated by China. It is imperative that the United States counters China's attempts to hold other countries financially hostage and force ransoms that further its geo-strategic goals." Specifically, the letter asks Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary Pompeo: How do you plan to raise the dangers of Chinese infrastructure financing through BRI with the IMF? Do you believe that additional countries will ask for a bailout from the IMF due to BRI? Which countries? As the largest contributor to the IMF, how can the United States use its influence to ensure that bailout terms prevent the continuation of ongoing BRI projects, or the start of new BRI projects? How can the United States work with allies and partners to educate countries about the risks of Chinese infrastructure loans? How can the United States work with allies and partners to assist countries struggling to repay debts due to BRI? How can the United States work with allies and partners to present an alternative to developing nations regarding investment and infrastructure funding? The letter was signed by U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and John Thune (R-SD). Read the full letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.03.2018	08.03.18 Senator David Perdue Visits Anheuser-Busch Brewery In Cartersville CARTERSVILLE, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visits the Anheuser-Busch brewery in Carterville, Georgia to tour the facility and meet with employees about recent economic growth in Georgia and across the country. Click here or on the image below to download photos. “It was encouraging to meet with employees at the Anheuser-Busch Cartersville brewery and hear about the positive impact economic growth has had on their business,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m proud Anheuser-Busch has chosen to plant their roots here in Georgia and invest almost $1 billion back into the state. For five consecutive years, Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business. Without a doubt, the recent tax changes and regulatory rollback are helping our economy and will continue to do so. Thanks to everyone at the Cartersville Brewery for welcoming us today and for your commitment to improving our community.” “We are honored to be a part of the Cartersville community, and it was great to have U.S. Senator David Perdue with us today to learn more about our brewing operations and heritage,” said Kevin Fahrenkrog, general manager of the Anheuser-Busch Cartersville brewery. “We’ve been brewing in Cartersville for 25 years, and we look forward to many more years to come.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.02.2018	08.02.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Meeting With President Trump WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on meeting with President Trump today at the White House: “Today’s meeting with President Trump was very productive. We discussed the encouraging progress being made in the Senate given the additional time we have to work in August. We also talked about how we are going to get the rest of the President’s agenda accomplished and build on what is already working. Similarly, we talked about ways we can break through the constant gridlock we see from Senate Democrats. The President and I both came to Washington to get results. We are willing to do whatever it takes to make this place function more effectively and to get big things done for the American people.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Final Defense Bill Includes More Than 30 Georgia Priorities Defense Bill now heads to President Trump’s desk to become law WASHINGTON, D.C. – As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a negotiator for the final defense bill, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) praises final passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. Senator Perdue secured more than 30 provisions of importance to Georgia in the annual defense bill, which now heads to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “Georgia’s military community plays a central role in fulfilling President Trump’s National Defense Strategy. This defense bill delivers the tools we need to protect Americans at home and abroad. The world is more dangerous today than any time in my lifetime. Our women and men in uniform need our full support as they defend our nation against evolving threats around the globe. President Trump is committed to modernizing our military capabilities and rebuilding our armed forces after the previous administration’s disinvestment. This year’s defense bill includes the critical resources our President needs to carry out that mission.” Senator Perdue’s provisions address a range of issues from bringing new missions to Georgia’s military community and safeguarding U.S. military technology to improved base conditions and medical care for service members. Here are some highlights: Expedites New Mission To Georgia: Provides funding for the new Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS), which gives our military the capability to access both restricted and non-restricted airspace. The Air Force has announced that ABMS will be hosted at Robins Air Force Base. Extends JSTARS: Prohibits the retirement of any aircraft in the JSTARS fleet, provides funding for full manning, maintenance, and operations for the full fleet for FY19, and creates a plan for the next ten years. It also secures funding for critical upgrades to enhance the operability and service life of the fleet. Accelerates Advanced Battle Management System: Accelerates funding for the development of new and critical technologies for the Air Force’s Advanced Battle Management System at Robins Air Force Base. Re-wings A-10 Aircraft: Secures an additional $65 million for the re-winging of A-10 aircraft, some of which are based at Moody Air Force Base. Upgrades C-130 Aircraft: Expands support for legacy C-130 aircraft with an additional $129 million for engine upgrades and $154 million for propeller upgrades which will be done at Robins Air Force Base. Repeals Compass Call FY17 Requirement: Repeals a requirement from the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act that has caused work stoppages and impacted Georgian workers. Promotes Military Spouse Employment: Multiple provisions address issues with low rates of military spouse employment and provide better access to beneficial programs that will help military spouses navigate the challenges of military life while supporting their families and their service members. Preserves ZTE Procurement Ban: Includes an amendment to preserve the U.S. Commerce Department’s export control authority and prohibit the federal government from purchasing ZTE and Huawei products in order to ensure the security of our military communication systems. Supports Submarine Industrial Base: Includes $250 million for the revitalization and long-term sustainment of the Columbia Class submarine industrial base that will benefit Georgia companies and King’s Bay, Georgia. Restores Military Travel: Repeals a damaging cut to the per diem of our service members and federal employees conducting official long-term travel that has negatively impacted those individuals and the businesses and communities serving them. Creates Military Construction Pilot Program: Establishes a pilot program that allows our depots to have more flexibility in the funding of critical infrastructure projects to support readiness. Supports Georgia Industries: Ensures funding for a wide range of military equipment that is produced by businesses across the state of Georgia and includes authorizations for multi-year procurement contracts that will keep production lines open. Establishes Cyber Institutes: Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish Cyber Institutes at colleges and universities with Reserve Officers’ Training Corps across the country, with a preference for Senior Military Colleges, to help ensure a robust cyber pipeline for Active Duty, Guard, and Reservists. Holds Bureaucrats Accountable: Continues to provide crucial oversight of the Department of Defense’s financial audit and requires reviews of defense agencies to ensure transparency, accountability, and the best use of taxpayer dollars. Secures Critical Technologies: Protects critical technologies necessary for national security from falling into the hands of our global competitors and requires further investigation into industrial espionage and cyber theft conducted by China. Enhances Medical Care For Service Members: Secures funding for important medical research, development, and pilot programs that will enhance the care given to our service members at home and abroad. Safeguards Online Marketplace: Ensures fair competition in the creation of an efficient and effective online marketplace to be used by Department of Defense. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Progress To Fund The Government On Time WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on passage of the second package of 2019 funding bills: “In March, President Trump was clear when he said he will not sign another massive omnibus bill. That’s why we pushed for the Senate to work through August and avoid another last-minute spending battle. We’ve made some progress. After this funding package, we have five more funding bills to complete before the end of the fiscal year on September 30. Congress has only funded the government on time four times in the last 44 years, and the last time was in 1996—more than 20 years ago. On top of that, the federal government has shut down 20 times in the last 42 years because Congress failed to meet its funding deadline.” Senator Perdue is leading a push to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and President Trump’s nominees in order to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. The group of senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on May 10, 2018. On June 5, 2018, Leader McConnell updated the Senate calendar to extend the work period to fund the government on time and make progress on nominees. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.31.2018	07.31.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Senate Confirmation of Britt Grant As U.S. Circuit Court Judge WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Senate’s vote to confirm Georgian Britt Grant to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. Grant was confirmed by a vote of 52-46. “Throughout her legal career, whether it was practicing as an attorney or serving as a judge, Britt Grant was always at the top of her class,” said Senator Isakson. “Justice Grant is an outstanding jurist and has served our state with distinction and integrity in roles on the Georgia Supreme Court and as solicitor general in the Georgia attorney general’s office. I’m proud the Senate has confirmed Britt Grant to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.” “Justice Grant is immensely qualified, and there’s no doubt in my mind that she will do a fantastic job serving the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Perdue. “Throughout her career, Justice Grant has established a long record of defending and upholding the Constitution. Our country needs more judges like Justice Grant, and President Trump made an excellent choice in selecting her for this position.” Isakson and Perdue delivered remarks on the Senate floor on Monday to urge their colleagues to support Grant’s nomination. View Isakson’s remarks here and Perdue’s remarks here. In floor remarks ahead of Grant’s cloture vote on Monday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, read highlights from letters sent to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary by Grant’s former and current colleagues supporting her nomination. McConnell also added, “The understanding of a judge’s role, and the temperament to execute it, is precisely the approach that our constitutional order requires of our judges. I look forward to voting to advance Justice Grant’s nomination …and urge each of my colleagues to join me.” Grant has served as a justice on the Supreme Court of Georgia since 2017. Prior to her appointment to the bench, she served as the solicitor general of Georgia and, before that, as counsel for legal policy to the attorney general of Georgia. Upon graduation from law school, Justice Grant served as a law clerk to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. She earned her J.D., with distinction, from Stanford Law School. Before enrolling in law school, Justice Grant served in the White House as deputy associate director of the Office of Cabinet Affairs and earlier as assistant to the director in the Domestic Policy Council and USA Freedom Corps. She also served as legislative correspondent and communications director to Georgia Congressman Nathan Deal. Justice Grant earned her bachelor’s degree, summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, and was a summer intern for Isakson when he served in the U.S. House. ###
07.31.2018	07.31.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Extension Of Flood Insurance Program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the short-term extension of Washington’s flood insurance program: “Georgians living in areas that are vulnerable to flooding deserve certainty. That’s why I’m supporting this extension of the flood insurance program. However, Congress has got to start doing things differently. Stringing together multiple short-term extensions for government programs, like flood insurance, only make emergency situations more complicated. The current program is unsustainable, and taxpayers deserve better. One thing is certain – we are past the tipping point in this debt crisis, and it’s costing us the right to do the right thing. It’s time Congress develops the political will to fix its broken budget process and stop operating from deadline to deadline.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.30.2018	07.30.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Confirmation Of Justice Britt Grant WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor in support of Georgia Supreme Court Justice Britt Grant’s confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. The Senate will vote on her confirmation later this week. Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: “One of the great honors and privileges of being in the United States Senate is that we get to confirm presidential nominations to our country's highest courts. President Trump has nominated an outstanding judge to fill an opening on the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. That judge is Georgia Supreme Court Justice Britt Grant. Today, the United States Senate will vote to invoke cloture on her nomination so we can confirm her later this week. This is a crucial vote tonight. “Justice Grant has served with distinction on the Supreme Court of Georgia since January of 2017. In that role, she has written over 40 opinions on both criminal and civil matters and participated in hundreds of other opinions. Her positions are not a mystery. She has a long record of defending and upholding our Constitution. She served as Solicitor General for the state of Georgia from 2015 until her appointment to the State Supreme Court. This year, she was elected to her seat on the State Supreme Court without opposition. This is a testament in my state. When that happens, that means people on both sides of the aisle understand how she is applying the rule of law. It's a testament to the quality of her work, the dedication she has to the Constitution, and to the people for whom she works. “Prior to her public service, Justice Grant argued a commercial litigation case before the highest court of the land, the United States Supreme Court. By the way, she won. Justice Grant attended Stanford Law School and after graduating, she actually clerked for Judge Brett Kavanaugh, another outstanding nominee that will hopefully be confirmed to the United States Supreme Court later this year. I might add that Judge Kavanaugh sat through Justice Grant's confirmation hearing in front of the Judiciary Committee just some few months ago. He was there for the entire hearing because she did such a good job clerking for him earlier in her career. “Clearly, Justice Grant is immensely qualified to fill this Court of Appeals vacancy, and there's no doubt in my mind that she will do a fantastic job. In fact, our country needs more judges like Justice Grant. I couldn't be prouder of her, her husband Justin, their three kids Charles, Mary Elise, and Jack. Earlier this year, I was honored to introduce Justice Grant in her confirmation hearing and to commend her nomination with my highest recommendation. Tonight, I strongly urge my colleagues to support her final confirmation to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.27.2018	07.27.18 Senators Urging Britain, France, and Germany to Deepen Cooperation Against Iran, Warning On Sanctions ‘We write to urge you to comply with all American sanctions, but also to emphasize we would consider it particularly troubling if you sought to evade or undermine American statutes’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) along with nine senators sent a letter this week to the ambassadors of the EU3 – Britain, France, and Germany – calling on their governments to deepen Transatlantic cooperation against Iran and warning against efforts to evade U.S. sanctions, which are set to be re-imposed in the coming weeks. The letter was signed by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Mike Lee (R-UT), Tom Cotton (R-AR), David Perdue (R-GA), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). The senators emphasized that while certain sanctions on Iran were imposed by executive order and regulation, a core set of four statutes were passed into law by Congress, some unanimously in the Senate, and were affirmed by subsequent Presidents. “We write to urge you to comply with all American sanctions, but also to emphasize we would consider it particularly troubling if you sought to evade or undermine American statutes,” the senators wrote. “First, these statutes align with your governments’ commitment to deepen cooperation addressing Iran’s ballistic missile program and destabilizing activities. Second, they were passed over several years by overwhelming bipartisan majorities – including in some cases via unanimous Senate passage – and Congress is obligated to ensure their implementation. “These laws were passed by Congress, signed by President Obama, and will be enforced by President Trump. Congressional leaders of both parties have taken a firm stance in support of them. They are not the policies of one party or one branch, but the considered and long-term policy of the United States as expressed by Congress. Any attempt to evade or undermine them could well prompt Congressional action, in coordination with other elements of the U.S. government, to ensure their integrity.” Read the full letter here. ###
07.27.2018	07.27.18 Senator David Perdue at Turning Point USA: America Is A Country Of Destiny WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke to over 700 conservatives from across the country at Turning Point USA’s High School Leadership Summit. Click here or below to watch his remarks. Highlights: Big Government Has Failed: “Big government programs that start and end in Washington do not solve the problems back home. There’s a better way.” Supporting ICE: “Our President has called on us to support ICE, and I’m proud to have put a bill in last week to stand with our women and men in uniform protecting our borders.” Don’t Back Down: “Do not go to college being embarrassed to be conservative. Here’s what we believe in: economic opportunity for everybody, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and, most of all, individual liberty. It’s worth fighting for.” Term Limits: “As the outsider in the United States Senate, the very first thing I did on the very first day after I was sworn in to this office, is I put a term limit bill, and I’m going to keep fighting until we get term limits in the United States Congress.” American Exceptionalism: “This country is bigger than you, bigger than me, and bigger than Donald Trump. This country is a country of destiny. It always has been, and it always will be, but it needs people like you who are willing to stand up for what’s right.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.27.2018	07.27.18 Senators Perdue, Isakson To Name Columbus Post Office After Fort Benning Unit WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) introduced a bill to designate a United States Post Office in Columbus, Georgia as the “Richard W. Williams Chapter of the Triple Nickles (555th P.I.A.) Post Office,” in honor of Columbus-area veterans who served in military units that originated from the Army’s first all-black parachute unit, which was activated at Fort Benning in December 1943. “The Triple Nickles went above and beyond the call of duty, serving in more airborne units than any other parachute group in history,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “They are a key part of Georgia’s proud military tradition, and we are honored to recognize their service and the service of the veterans who followed them with this tribute. Thank you to Columbus and the Fort Benning community for your continued support of our women and men in uniform and their families.” “I am delighted to help honor service members of the Richard W. Williams Chapter of the 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, better known as Triple Nickles, with the renaming of this post office,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “As the nation’s first all-black parachute unit, these members courageously fought for and defended our country throughout the 20th century. I am proud to live in the same state as these heroes and am glad to have the opportunity to thank them for their selfless actions and distinguished service.” The 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, commonly known as the Triple Nickles, was deactivated in December 1947, and its members went on to serve in other military units during the Korean War. Notably, many members of the Triple Nickles also went on to form the Army’s first and only all-black Ranger unit, the 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, which trained at Fort Benning and saw action in the Korean War. Ultimately, members of the Triple Nickles served in more airborne units, in peace and war, than any other parachute group in history. The Richard W. Williams Chapter of the Triple Nickles currently has a membership of approximately 61 veterans in Columbus, Georgia and the surrounding area who served in various military units that were fathered by the Triple Nickles, including the 173rd Airborne, 2nd Ranger Company Airborne, 1st Calvary Division, and the 24th Infantry Division. The post office to be renamed is located at 120 12th Street Lobby, Columbus, Georgia. View the bill here. ###
07.27.2018	07.27.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Second-Quarter 2018 GDP Growth “This economic growth is a crucial part of solving our national debt crisis.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s analysis of 2018 second-quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth: “The second-quarter GDP growth of 4.1 percent clearly demonstrates that President Trump’s economic agenda is working. When President Trump took office, he said job one was growing the economy. His strategy included undoing regulations, releasing our energy potential, changing the tax system, and rolling back parts of Dodd-Frank. These efforts are generating much-needed economic growth that is a crucial part of solving our national debt crisis. Every one percent of GDP growth adds about $300 billion dollars of federal tax revenue. This performance highlights the need to continue the President’s agenda to work on immigration, trade, and infrastructure.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Senators Bolster Sanctions On Terrorists Using Human Shields WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX) today, joined by Senators Joe Donnelly (D-IN), John Cornyn (R-TX), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tim Scott (R-SC), Ed Markey (D-MA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and David Perdue (R-GA), introduced the bipartisan STOP Using Human Shields Act. The bill imposes sanctions on those who use or facilitate the use of human shields, such as Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda, and ISIS. “America, Israel, and our other allies are engaged in a fight against radical Islamic terrorist organizations, from Hamas and Hezbollah to Al Qaeda and ISIS, who cynically use human shields against us,” Senator Cruz said. “Unfortunately, organizations like the United Nations incentivize this barbaric tactic by blaming civilized countries, who do everything possible to avoid civilian casualties, for whatever civilian casualties that do occur. The United States should hold accountable the monsters who commit these war crimes. This bill will impose consequences on those who enable and facilitate the use of human shields.” A member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Donnelly said, “The use of human shields – including by terrorist groups Hamas and Hezbollah – is barbaric, illegal, and offensive to the most basic standards of human decency. I hope the Senate will soon consider this bipartisan legislation that I’m partnering on with Senator Cruz, because it would condemn this practice and impose sanctions on any individuals involved in such reprehensible activities.” “As groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah continue to put innocent lives in grave danger by using human shields, it is essential that action is taken to punish these organizations,” Senator Scott said. “We know these and many other terrorists have little regard for human life, and they need to be sent a strong message that the use of human shields will not be tolerated.” “Terrorist organizations like Hamas in Gaza continue their efforts to kill and terrorize innocent civilians while using human shields in the process showing their utter disregard for human life,” Senator Rubio said. “This bill is an important step in holding accountable those involved in this heinous practice.” “Hamas and Hezbollah have no respect for human rights or innocent lives,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Armed Services Committee. “These terrorists have turned schools into arsenals, hospitals into targets, and are even using children and adults as human shields. Pure evil is the only way to describe these heinous actions, and this new sanctions category will give the United States Treasury Department another tool to cut off Hamas and Hezbollah from the global community.” The full bill text may be viewed here. The STOP Using Human Shields Act would: Direct the U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote, and influence of the U.S. to secure support for a UN Security Council resolution that would condemn the use of human shields as a violation of international law; impose multilateral sanctions against terrorist organizations for utilizing such tactics; and require member states to take specific steps to prevent the use of human shields from occurring. Impose sanctions on each foreign person that is a member of a foreign terrorist organization, or each agency or instrumentality of a foreign state that the President has determined knowingly encouraged, supported, ordered, controlled, or has otherwise been complicit in any attempt to use civilians or protected property to deliberately cause casualties or shield lawful targets from attack. ###
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Progress In US-EU Trade Talks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s trade discussions with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker: “The EU has opened the door to transition from a tariff discussion to substantive item-by-item negotiations about equal access. President Trump said job one was to grow our economy, and to do that we need to grow exports. Our trading partners are looking at the trade imbalances in a different light under President Trump. The long-term goal has never been tariffs, but equal access to other markets.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.25.2018	07.25.18 WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Defense Bill Includes Key Items For Robins Air Force Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – Middle Georgia leaders and defense experts are praising the final FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act, which provides continuity and certainty for JSTARS for the next 10 years, accelerates the development of the Advanced Battle Management System, and names Robins Air Force Base as the host base for this new platform for decades to come. Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson: "We will safely maintain JSTARS as we transition the U.S. Air Force and Robins Air Force Base to the future with Advanced Battle Management. Thanks to Congress for your thoughtful leadership." Major General Arnold L. Punaro (USMC, Retired), former Staff Director of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee under then-Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA): “As someone who grew up in Middle Georgia and spent 24 years working for Senator Sam Nunn as the Staff Director of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I spent considerable time with him and the Georgia delegation ensuring the long-term future of Robins Air Logistics Depot. I am extremely pleased with the results in this year’s defense bill as it relates to the crucial JSTARS mission. For decades, the Georgia delegation has successfully fought to ensure that Robins continues to have important operational missions at the base, from the B-52s to the B-1s to the JSTARS. Senator Perdue has led the fight, and the defense conference has both preserved this critical current JSTARS capability for our warfighters in the near-term, while allowing the Air Force to develop new capabilities for the future. This is a win for our warfighters and for the continued viability of an operational mission at Robins, which is so critical when the pressures for base closures and realignments continue. In my view, Senator Perdue has prevailed against substantial odds with this highly successful result.” U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) (former Specialist, U.S. Army), Acting Chairman of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee: “This year’s NDAA puts a strong focus on modernizing our military to respond to the growing threats we face around the world. Safely maintaining the JSTARS program while developing the next generation of capabilities best serves the needs of the U.S. Air Force. I want to especially thank Senator Perdue for his input and leadership on this issue throughout the conference process.” U.S. Representative Steve Womack (R-AR-3) (Colonel, ARNG, Retired), Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee on Defense: “As a 30-year veteran of the Arkansas Army National Guard and the representative for Ebbing Air Force Base in Fort Smith, I believe finding both short- and long-term solutions for the military’s battle management needs is an absolute necessity. I also understand the importance of sustaining our military communities. Ensuring the continued operation of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) platform while the Air Force develops the Advanced Battle Management System does both and is good for our warfighters and the communities that support them. I believe the path forward crafted by the NDAA Conference Committee is what’s best for our country and her defenders.” Georgia State Senator Larry Walker III (R-Perry): “I attended a meeting last year in which Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson talked about JSTARS, and it’s clear we will soon need new technologies to counter the threats we face around the world. That’s why I’m grateful Senator Perdue has secured Robins as the host base for the Advanced Battle Management System, while keeping JSTARS planes online for the next decade. With this additional mission, Robins will work alongside the Cyber Center in Augusta to combat cyber threats and equip our men and women in uniform with the tools they need in battle. Under this plan, Georgia will continue to be the nation’s cybersecurity capital, and Robins will be strong for years to come.” Georgia State Representative Bubber Epps (R-Dry Branch): “The solution Senator Perdue secured is good for Robins Air Force Base and good for the Middle Georgia community. It guarantees a flying mission at Robins for the next decade and brings the ABMS online sooner. It ensures the long-term viability of Robins and avoids a capabilities gap. It is the best way forward for the base, our community, and the entire military.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade On Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined David Westin on Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak Americas to discuss trade and getting equal access to other markets. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: One Mission: “Rest assured, President Trump has one mission in mind, and that is to create a more level playing field for all of our industries here in the United States.” Equal Access: “I just did a tour of my state with the Secretary of Agriculture and met a lot of farmers all over the state. The message I heard overwhelmingly in my state is that they are interested in more exports and more equal access.” Growing Exports: “People are looking at exports in a different light under this President. Now we see an opportunity to actually grow our exports. If we’re going to continue to grow at 3% or 3.5% like we’re doing now, we have to grow our exports long-term.” Business Perspective: “I am a pragmatist, and our President is as well. He comes from the business community, and he’s demonstrated over and over again that he’s willing to back up and go in a different direction in order to get results. That’s what you do in business when you’re trying succeed and accomplish a goal.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New VA Secretary, Robert Wilkie WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, congratulates Robert Wilkie on being confirmed as Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs: “Robert Wilkie’s military service and time as acting Secretary make him a great choice to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. In this role, he will be tasked with the mission of upholding America’s commitments to its veterans and their families. Robert Wilkie is uniquely suited to combat the challenges of the VA and hold the Department’s employees accountable. Since President Trump took office, more than 1,550 underperforming VA employees have been fired. Robert Wilkie will continue cleaning up the Department and ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Senator David Perdue Secures Long-term Future For Robins Air Force Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK), the Acting Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comment on the positive impact the final FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act will have on Robins Air Force Base and the JSTARS fleet: “This is no longer Barack Obama’s military,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “While I have always supported the JSTARS recap, we have a new President, Defense Secretary, and Air Force Secretary who have presented a better long-term solution. The Advance Battlefield Management System (ABMS) will give us the capability to access both restricted and non-restricted airspace. This is a necessity in supporting our troops in harm’s way as well as our overall intelligence gathering. With the solution I support, we save JSTARS jobs, maintain the JSTARS fleet into the next decade, accelerate the implementation of ABMS, and gain a new mission for Robins. All of this guarantees a very bright future for my hometown base. Anyone who doesn’t see that this plan is a huge win for Robins is more concerned with their next election than our long-term national security and Robins’ long-term viability.” “This year’s NDAA puts a strong focus on modernizing our military to respond to the growing threats we face around the world,” said Senator Inhofe, the Acting Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Safely maintaining the JSTARS program while developing the next generation of capabilities best serves the needs of the U.S. Air Force. I want to especially thank Senator Perdue for his input and leadership on this issue throughout the conference process.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Senator David Perdue On ZTE Procurement Ban In Final Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the final FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Committee Report, which includes Senator Perdue’s amendment to preserve the Commerce Department’s export control authority and prohibit the federal government from purchasing ZTE and Huawei products: “The global business community took notice when our Commerce Department issued its harshest penalty ever on ZTE for violating our country’s sanctions. Congress didn’t need to muddy the waters by halting the penalty, which could have negatively impacted on-going negotiations pertaining to trade and sanctions enforcement. We were able to get this resolved in the final defense bill. ZTE will continue to be punished, and the government procurement ban on ZTE and Huawei products will stay intact. Overall, this is win for the United States, not for ZTE.” Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was selected to serve on the defense bill conference committee where he worked to find common ground on how the federal government should reprimand ZTE for violating U.S. sanctions. Since the Commerce Department levied its fine, Senator Perdue has been engaged with Congress and the White House to keep the penalty intact and preserve the government procurement ban. The Commerce Department’s penalty on ZTE includes: Nearly $1.8 billion in fines Complete removal of existing ZTE corporate board and leadership An independent compliance coordinator employed at ZTE’s expense to monitor ZTE compliance for the next 10 years with no limitation on information sharing between the compliance coordinator and U.S. federal government agencies 10-year probation period that includes a U.S government appointed independent compliance department to ensure ZTE compliance with all U.S export control laws ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.19.2018	07.19.18 Senator David Perdue Meets With Judge Brett Kavanaugh WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) meets with President Donald J. Trump’s nominee to the United States Supreme Court, Judge Brett Kavanaugh: Click here to download high-resolution photos. Click here to download b-roll video. “After meeting with Judge Kavanaugh, I have no doubt that he is exactly the kind of justice we need on the United States Supreme Court: an independent jurist and ardent defender of the Constitution. We discussed his commitment to Constitution and lessons he has learned throughout his time on the Court of Appeals. Judge Kavanaugh’s impressive academic and legal record make him an outstanding choice by President Trump. Judge Kavanaugh will be an excellent associate justice on the United States Supreme Court, and he has my strongest support.” This week, Senator Perdue published an op-ed in the Marietta Daily Journal urging the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to fill this critical open seat on the United States Supreme Court. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.19.2018	07.19.18 Senators Isakson & Perdue Applaud Committee Approval of Britt Grant to Serve on 11th Circuit Court of Appeals Nomination now heads to full Senate for vote on confirmation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) applaud action by the Senate Judiciary Committee to approve the nomination of Georgian Britt Grant to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. “I’m thrilled that Britt Grant has been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee,” said Senator Isakson. “She is uniquely qualified and has served our state and nation with distinction and integrity. She will be an excellent addition to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. I urge the full Senate to act on her nomination as soon as possible.” “Justice Britt Grant is an exceptional judge, and I’m delighted to see the Senate Judiciary Committee approve her nomination,” said Senator Perdue. “Without question, Justice Grant will serve Georgians and the American people honorably on the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. President Trump made an excellent choice in selecting Justice Grant for this position.” Grant has served as a justice on the Supreme Court of Georgia since 2017. Prior to her appointment to the bench, she served as the solicitor general of Georgia and, before that, as counsel for legal policy to the attorney general of Georgia. Upon graduation from law school, Justice Grant served as a law clerk to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. She earned her J.D., with distinction, from Stanford Law School. Before enrolling in law school, Justice Grant served in the White House as deputy associate director of the Office of Cabinet Affairs and earlier as assistant to the director in the Domestic Policy Council and USA Freedom Corps. She also served as legislative correspondent and communications director to Georgia Congressman Nathan Deal. Justice Grant earned her bachelor’s degree, summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, and was a summer intern for Isakson when he served in the U.S. House. Following today’s favorable committee action, her nomination now moves to the full Senate for a vote on confirmation. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.19.2018	07.19.18 WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Conservatives Back Senator Perdue’s Work To #DrainTheSwamp WASHINGTON, D.C. – Conservative groups support Senator Perdue’s push to cut government waste and ensure only the highest performing federal employees are serving the American people. Under current law, it can take more than a year to fire an underperforming civil service employee. Senator Perdue’s MERIT Act offers an alternative dismissal protocol for all government agencies and gives managers the option to expedite the dismissal process of bad employees. Americans for Limited Government: “In order to drain the swamp, we have to be able to fire the swamp, and that’s exactly what Sen. David Perdue’s legislation does. We thank Senator Perdue for taking on this important piece of legislation.” – Rick Manning, President, Americans for Limited Government Americans for Prosperity: “The federal government has been out of touch with the American people for far too long. The MERIT Act represents an important step in making sure our federal bureaucracy is properly serving the American people and doing so in a cost-effective manner on behalf of taxpayers. On behalf of 3.2 million activists across all 50 states, we applaud Senator Perdue’s leadership on this issue and look forward to educating the American people on the constructive reforms included in his bill.” – Akash Chougule, Senior Policy Fellow, Americans for Prosperity Americans for Tax Reform: "Americans for Tax Reform strongly supports Senator Perdue’s MERIT Act because U.S. taxpayers should only pay for competent, law-abiding federal employees. The MERIT Act strengthens the federal workforce and ensures taxpayer money is spent wisely.” – Grover Norquist, President, Americans for Tax Reform Council for Citizens Against Government Waste: “The MERIT Act would represent a critical step toward streamlining the federal bureaucracy. Holding federal employees to high standards is the best way to demonstrate respect for the citizens who pay their salaries.” – Tom Schatz, President, Council for Citizens Against Government Waste Less Government: “We should call this ‘The Drop Dead Weight Act’ – because that’s what it finally begins to allow the federal government to do. Also because I’m not sure any government employee will recognize the word ‘Merit.’ That being said, I wholeheartedly applaud Senator Perdue and Congressman Loudermilk for this bill. May it quickly become law – and allow a very willing Donald Trump Administration to begin shedding the very many unnecessary staffing pounds. Drain the Swamp, indeed.” – Seton Motley, President, Less Government National Taxpayers Union: "Through commonsense reforms, the MERIT Act would reduce the practice of civil service sinecures for underperforming employees. Past reports claiming that 99 percent of staffs at federal agencies are "fully successful" are at odds with regular news of employees who waste taxpayer funds or violate workplace conduct without consequence. Holding federal employees to similar standards as those in the private sector would help curb wasteful spending, increase productivity, and boost morale. The majority of civil servants, who perform their work diligently and well, shouldn't be burdened with extra work or their contributions devalued due to a lack of accountability. In addition, NTU is pleased that the MERIT Act upholds whistleblower protections. Whistleblowers have consistently been the first line of defense against wasteful, sometimes criminal, actions that have hurt both taxpayers and the people who utilize agency services." – Nan Swift, Director of Federal Affairs, National Taxpayers Union ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees
07.16.2018	07.16.18 Senator David Perdue & Secretary Sonny Perdue Visit Georgia Ag Leaders GRIFFIN, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, and Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture Gary Black traveled across Georgia to hear from farmers, foresters, researchers, and stakeholders in the agriculture industry. The day included a tour of Lewis Taylor Farms in Tifton, a stakeholder meeting at Georgia Forestry Association’s headquarters in Forsyth, and a briefing from the University of Georgia’s Turfgrass and Weed Science department in Griffin. Click here to download high-resolution photos of the trip. Click here to download a highlights video. “It was great to have the Secretary of Agriculture back in Georgia to meet with farmers and stakeholders in the agriculture industry,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “As Sonny and I learned growing up working on our family’s farms, agriculture is a business and a way of life for many Georgians. During our visits, we heard directly from stakeholders about the unique challenges they face. I’m hopeful we’ll get a Farm Bill to the President’s desk soon that will provide farmers with certainty and help rural America thrive.” “David and I grew up on a Georgia farm, which makes it great to be able to come back as a United States Senator and Secretary of Agriculture to hear from our growers and producers,” said Secretary Perdue. “We spent the day listening about trade, labor issues, regulations, the Farm Bill and a variety of other issues and will take what we heard back to D.C. to tell the President. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Perdue and Commissioner Black in making Georgia’s ag industry the best it can be.” “The Secretary and Senator both know that on-the-ground, grassroots input is always the best way to gather information,” said Commissioner Black. “I am confident, particularly during this important period of discussion surrounding the Farm Bill, that our tour will yield positive results.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.13.2018	07.13.18 Senator Perdue Talks Supreme Court & NATO Summit On Georgia Radio WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined WDUN’s Morning News with Bill & Joel to discuss the NATO summit, President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, economic growth, and the debt crisis. Highlights: 66 Days: “The last two Supreme Court Justices have gone through the confirmation process in about 66 days. Judge Brett Kavanaugh should be confirmed before November.” Democrats’ Bias: “The Democrats were hysterical before they even knew who the Supreme Court candidate was. It shows that they’re not interested in finding someone who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.” Paying Their Fair Share: “For the last seven years, the United States has been the primary source of stability in the world, and our European allies need to step up and increase their defense spending.” Looking Out For Taxpayers: “Our taxpayers have been subsidizing the national security of our NATO allies. President Trump knows that’s unacceptable, and he’s getting results.” Economy Is Moving: “The economy is beginning to move. We’ve worked on regulation, energy, and taxes. We’ve rolled back Dodd-Frank regulations on small banks and community banks, which is going to have a tremendous impact on small town America.” On A Mission: “President Trump is on a mission to deal with this debt crisis. The first thing he said we had to do is get our economy growing again.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.12.2018	07.12.18 Senator David Perdue Pushes To #DrainTheSwamp WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is leading the effort in the Senate to cut government waste and ensure the highest performing federal employees are serving the American people. Senator Perdue’s Modern Employment Reform, Improvement and Transformation (MERIT) Act, offers an alternative dismissal protocol for all government agencies and gives managers the option to expedite the dismissal process of bad employees. Companion legislation was introduced by Congressman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11) in the House of Representatives on January 13, 2017. “The United States federal government is completely overgrown today, and this is no surprise since it is nearly impossible to fire bureaucrats failing to do their jobs,” said Senator Perdue. “Right now, it can take more than a year to fire or replace a civil service employee, even for poor performance or misconduct. Government employees should be held to the same standard as private sector employees. Our country is facing a $21 trillion debt crisis, and we simply cannot afford to hold onto bad actors who aren’t doing their jobs. President Trump has called on Congress to clean up government waste. Since he took office, more than 1,550 underperforming bureaucrats have been fired at the VA. It’s time that approach is applied to the entire federal government.” “Working for the United States federal government is an honor and privilege, and most federal employees cherish this opportunity and desire to serve the American people,” said Congressman Loudermilk. “Unfortunately, many underperforming federal employees feel entitled to their positions and treat them as their right. The solution to this issue is the MERIT Act. I thank my friend and colleague, Senator Perdue, for leading the charge on this important reform.” The MERIT Act will: Increase agency management’s power to remove under-performing employees. Expedite timelines for removal by giving employees 7-21 days notice of action. Retain employees’ right to appeal and cap appeal decision time at 30 days. Uphold critical whistleblower protections. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.11.2018	07.11.18 GOP Senators Introduce Resolution Supporting ICE WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined U.S. Senator John Kennedy (R-LA) in introducing a Senate resolution denouncing the radical calls for the dissolution of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS.), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Todd Young (R-IN) also signed the resolution. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement performs vital functions that protect American families. Last year, agents worked tirelessly around the clock to rescue 1,422 victims of human trafficking. More than 900 of those victims were children. ICE agents also removed a million pounds of narcotics and more than 4,800 gang members from the streets of this country. Those numbers are just a small fraction of the nearly 127,000 arrests made by ICE agents last year against people who came here and committed violent crimes against law-abiding Americans. Those criminals were responsible for more than 50,000 assaults, 2,000 kidnappings and 1,800 homicides. “Every United States Senator should support this effort to recognize the brave women and men who wear the ICE uniform,” said Senator Perdue. “ICE is a critical component of our country’s national security strategy created after the terrorist attacks on 9/11. Since then, our ICE law enforcement officers have dedicated their lives to arresting human traffickers, protecting communities from gangs, combating terrorism, and keeping drugs off the street. We don’t say it enough - thank you to all of our ICE officers.” “I am deeply troubled by the Democrats’ reckless calls to abolish ICE. Eliminating ICE shows a blatant disregard for the welfare of the American people and our nation’s immigration laws,” said Senator Kennedy. “With the ever present threat of MS-13 and international terrorism, along with an opioid crisis being fought at our border, abolishing ICE is unthinkable. ICE officers are in the trenches fighting those threats and protecting American families from the cross-border crime and illegal immigration that endanger our families. ICE deserves our gratitude and respect, not scorn and ridicule.” “ICE agents put their lives on the line to protect our communities,” said Senator Blunt. “Every day, they work to take violent criminals off the street, seize deadly narcotics, rescue human trafficking victims, and prevent terrorists from carrying out attacks on our shores. They are a vital part of our nation’s law enforcement efforts and we are a safer country because of their service.” “Washington Democrats wanting to abolish ICE, our country's immigration law enforcement agency, are essentially demanding open borders,” said Senator Cassidy, M.D. “Assaults on ICE officers nearly tripled in 2017, so instead of attacking them, we should support them as they work to secure our borders, stop the flow of deadly drugs, break up violent gangs like MS-13, rescue human trafficking victims, and keep our communities safe.” “ICE agents are the front line when it comes to enforcing our immigration laws. They risk their lives on a daily basis to protect American citizens and immigrants from violent criminals, drug cartels, and human traffickers. Calls to abolish ICE not only disregard our immigration laws and give implicit license to those who want to enter our country illegally, they also smear the heroic sacrifices of ICE agents and put people at risk, especially in border states like Texas. I will continue to support the brave men and women who serve as ICE agents, and urge my colleagues to stand by ICE and honor the key role it plays in keeping our country safe,” said Senator Cruz. “ICE agents keep our borders secure and I want to thank them for the important work they are doing. Far too many people are coming into our country illegally and putting the safety and security of American citizens at risk. In Montana, the effects of unsecured borders are personal. All across our state, communities are torn apart by the meth and opioids that are trafficked through the southern border. I am committed to fighting to protect ICE and all the Americans its agents protect,” said Senator Daines. “As we seek a long-term solution to our border crisis, we need to continue to support the men and women who are risking their lives on the border every day, implementing our immigration laws and supporting national security efforts,” said Senator Ernst. “ICE plays a critical role in ensuring our nation has a lawful immigration system. Calls to abolish ICE are misguided and dangerous. They ignore the valuable role ICE officers play in keeping Americans safe. Every day, ICE officers remove dangerous criminals who threaten our communities, including sex offenders, murderers and gang members. This country was founded on the principles of the rule of law and equal justice. Their public service deserves our thanks,” Senator Grassley said. “Abolishing ICE means abandoning our borders and leaving them open to anyone. That’s just irresponsible and certainly not in the best interest of the American people and their security. We are a nation of laws and we must enforce our immigration laws,” said Senator Hyde-Smith. “The hardworking men and women of Immigration and Customs Enforcement risk their lives each day to protect our borders and enforce our laws,” Senator Inhofe said. “I often visit with ICE agents and Border Patrol officers at the Port of Brownsville, Texas. They work diligently, and in difficult conditions, to manage deportations of dangerous criminals and to investigate cybercrime, human trafficking and illicit narcotics trade. Calls to abolish this critical agency are shortsighted and would lead to a proliferation of crime in our communities. I’m proud to support ICE and their important role in our nation’s law enforcement.” “The men and women of Immigration and Customs Enforcement who put their lives on the line every day deserve our support, not our scorn. It’s not their fault our immigration system is horribly broken. Angry rhetoric and reckless proposals directed at ICE will not solve the problems of our unsecured border or legal loopholes that encourage illegal immigration,” said Senator Johnson. “The Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency is an essential federal law enforcement agency,” Senator Lee said. “Without internal federal immigration law enforcement, illegal immigrants would be free to stay in our country forever once they snuck in the border or illegally overstayed their legally issued visa. We would no longer be a sovereign if we stopped governing who could and could not be in our country." “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents play a vital role in the defense of our country,” said Senator Rounds. “Not only do they work to safeguard our borders, they keep our communities safe and help rescue vulnerable children and human trafficking victims. Without the brave men and women of ICE, our borders would be essentially wide open for terrorists and other criminals who are intent on doing harm to Americans. Last year alone, ICE agents made approximately 5,000 gang arrests, seized nearly a million pounds of narcotics and rescued over 1,000 human trafficking victims and children subject to exploitation. I support our law enforcement officers at ICE who put themselves in danger every day to defend our borders and keep our communities safe.” “The men and women of ICE go out every day and risk their own lives by confronting dangerous gang members and criminals and stopping the flow of illegal drugs," said Senator Tillis. "The current narrative to abolish ICE is irresponsible, and I urge my colleagues on both sides of aisle to call out these unreasonable demands and the instead show appreciation to ICE agents for the job they do to keep our country safe.” ###
07.11.2018	07.11.18 Senator David Perdue: “This Is About Making Sure America Is Treated Fairly” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) urges the Senate to reject an procedural vote that included additional language geared towards tying President Trump’s hands in on-going trade negotiations. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Tariffs Are Not The Goal: “I just don’t understand why this body continues to try to tie the hands of this President at every turn. We all know that enacting tariffs on all imports is not the goal here. This President is committed to creating a more level playing field for our workers and our companies here at home to compete.” What We’re Up Against: “Looking at what we’re up against today, it’s easy to see why President Trump is insisting on getting America a better deal. Today, Canada has a 270% tariff on US milk. The EU keeps a 10% tariff on American autos. Brazil bans U.S. fresh, frozen, and processed pork products. China has a 15% tariff on American cars. The EU has a tariff of up to 26% on U.S. seafood. You can’t sell fresh American potatoes in most of Mexico.” Results & A Level Playing Field: “We know there is an imbalance in trade around the world. This is about making sure America is treated fairly and is the best place to do business in the world. It’s about making America more competitive and secure. It’s about ensuring our economic and national security for the next 100 years. President Trump is taking a different approach, sometimes controversial, but he only wants one thing for America and that’s results and a level playing field with the rest of the world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.11.2018	07.11.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses NATO Summit & Trade On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria after introducing a Senate resolution encouraging NATO allies to increase their defense contributions. They also discussed trade and President Trump’s Supreme Court nomination. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Paying Their Fair Share: “Every president since President Eisenhower has tried to get our NATO allies to pay their fair share for their own national defense. They’ve been paying about 1% of their GDP, and we’ve been paying about 3% of our GDP. We’ve been subsidizing the national defense of our NATO allies by about $400 billion a year, collectively.” Leveling The Playing Field: “The trade conversation is absolutely appropriate. President Trump is trying to create a more level playing field after 70 years of an unlevel playing field in our trade environment.” Getting China’s Attention: “President Trump has done what he had to do to get China’s attention. China characterizes themselves as the world’s largest developing economy, and they call the United States the largest developed economy. This characterization implies that we need an unlevel playing field in terms of trade practices. President Trump does not subscribe to that, and neither do I.” Support For Judge Kavanaugh: “I don’t know why we wouldn’t get Democratic support for a candidate like this. Judge Kavanaugh is a great nominee with a fantastic legacy of rulings.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.10.2018	07.10.18 Ahead Of NATO Summit, Senators Encourage Allies To Increase Defense Contributions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), James Lankford (R-OK), and Mike Lee (R-UT) introduce a Senate resolution to reinforce the need for greater defense spending in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and stress the importance of the alliance. This week, President Trump is meeting with world leaders at the annual NATO summit, where he will reaffirm the United States’ commitment to global security and encourage NATO allies to fulfill defense spending commitments. “NATO is the foundation for global security, which is why President Trump made bolstering this key alliance one of his top priorities,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Since he took office, our NATO allies have started increasing their defense budgets. This year, NATO expects eight allies to meet their goal, and 15 allies are on track to hit their target by 2024. It is critical our NATO alliance stays strong and has the funding it needs to carry out global security missions.” “NATO is only as strong as its members, so it’s crucial that our NATO allies meet their defense-spending commitments,” said Senator Cotton, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The growing number of threats to our security should only solidify our countries’ commitment to the alliance.” “Only fair and equitable burden sharing will make ‘peace through strength’ a NATO reality in the face of growing threats, including Russian aggression, terrorism and cybersecurity,” said Senator Inhofe, senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “President Trump is right to strongly encourage all of our NATO allies to meet their commitment to defense spending under the collective security obligations.” “The importance of NATO to the national security of the United States cannot be understated,” said Senator Lankford, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Most NATO countries are in Europe, a continent that is at the frontlines of the confrontation with Russia and continues to deal with the large influx of refugees from crisis torn areas. Europe’s security is important for America’s security; however, our allies must also meet their defense spending commitments. For the NATO Alliance to be most effective, all Member States must carry their share of the security burden.” “I have long advocated that all NATO allies increase defense spending and appreciate the firm stance our executive branch officials have taken on this issue,” said Senator Lee, a former member of the Senate Armed Service Committee. “I am excited to support this legislation that calls on our NATO allies to fulfill their security interests; NATO is an alliance and should not be used as a free ride for nations not to protect themselves. This resolution moves us in the correct direction.” The senators’ resolution: Reaffirms U.S. commitment to NATO as the foundation of transatlantic security and defense. Encourages NATO allies to fulfill defense spending commitments that were agreed upon at the 2014 Wales Summit. Calls on NATO allies to finance, equip, and train their military to achieve interoperability and fulfill their national security interests. Recognizes NATO allies who meet their defense spending commitments. Read the full text of the resolution here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.10.2018	07.10.18 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue On Nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following video after attending the White House nomination ceremony of Judge Brett Kavanaugh for the United States Supreme Court. Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: “Hi guys, it’s David Perdue, the Junior U.S. Senator from Georgia. It’s first thing in the morning on Tuesday, after last night’s historic evening where President Trump announced his nomination for the U.S. Supreme Court. I was invited to be there and was in the East Room of the White House as President Trump announced his choice as Brett Kavanaugh. “Judge Kavanaugh has an outstanding career. I am excited by his nomination. This is the second nomination that President Trump has made for the United States Supreme Court. We all know, both Democrats and Republicans, what a great addition Neil Gorsuch was to the United States Supreme Court. I think Brett Kavanaugh is of the same ilk, and I think he will make the same sort of Justice – the type of Justice that supports and defends the Constitution of the United States. “Last night, Judge Kavanaugh talked mostly about his family – his mom, his dad, his wife and kids. He talked about America. He committed to the President, and to us in the Senate, and to America, that his number one responsibility was to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. That’s good enough for me because his record proves that. I’m excited about his nomination, and I’m excited about meeting him in person in a one-on-one interview in the next week or so and to move to his confirmation hearing. “Now, the other side will tell you all bad things about this individual, just like they did with Neil Gorsuch. I’m here to tell you, we need to take politics out of this equation. This is about the future of our country. This is about an individual with an outstanding, objective, and independent record of defending and upholding the Constitution of the United States. I could not be more excited about a nominee than I am about Brett Kavanaugh.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.09.2018	07.09.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Supreme Court Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – After attending the nomination ceremony at the White House, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: “President Trump has again fulfilled his promise to the American people and put forward an outstanding nominee to serve on the United States Supreme Court. Throughout his remarkable legal career, Brett Kavanaugh has shown a commitment to upholding our country’s Constitution. These principles are the bedrock of our nation and have made the United States exceptional since its founding. “Judge Kavanaugh has an impressive academic and legal background. He graduated from Yale Law School, clerked for Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, served as staff secretary for President George W. Bush, and served on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for more than a decade. Judge Kavanaugh understands the long-lasting impact Supreme Court decisions have on our nation, and I look forward to meeting with him soon.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.02.2018	07.02.18 Senator David Perdue Recognizes 40th Anniversary Of Kings Bay ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced a Senate resolution honoring the 40th anniversary of Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, which was established on July 1, 1978, in Kings Bay, Georgia. “Congratulations to Kings Bay and the Camden County community,” said Senator Perdue. “As home to the Atlantic fleet of the Ohio-class submarine, Kings Bay plays an integral role in our national defense and strategic deterrence. Kings Bay also provides top-quality industrial and logistics support and trains sailors to operate and maintain Trident submarines. Thank you to The Camden Partnership and the coastal Georgia community for your strong support of Kings Bay throughout the years. As they say, ‘every day in Camden County is military appreciation day.’” In 1954, the U.S. Army began to build a military ocean terminal to ship ammunition in case of a national emergency. Since there was no immediate operational need for the installation, the base was placed in an inactive ready status. After evaluating more than 60 sites along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, the U.S. Navy selected Kings Bay as the new home of Submarine Squadron 16. The base was transferred from the Army to the Navy, and on July 1, 1978, Naval Submarine Support Base Kings Bay was established in a developmental status. Today, Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay is home to six ballistic missile submarines and two guided missile submarines and is one of two remaining naval nuclear weapon storage sites in the United States. Kings Bay is responsible for $1,142,000,000 in total economic output to the Camden County area. In 2007, Kings Bay was named the top military installation in the Department of Defense. Read the full text of the resolution here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.29.2018	06.29.18 Momentum Builds For Changing Congress’ Broken Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform held an open mic hearing where Members of both chambers of Congress suggested their ideas for improving the budget and appropriations process. U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee and Joint Select Committee, has made it one of his top priorities to change Congress’ failed budget process. Over the past three years, he has met with policy experts, outside groups, retired Members of Congress, and his colleagues from both parties and chambers to study best practices and highlight the flaws of the current budget process. In 2016, Senator Perdue published a paper outlining the guiding principles Congress should consider when creating a new budget process. Many of his ideas were echoed during this week’s hearing. Click here to watch the hearing. End Backroom Spending Bills House Speaker Paul Ryan: “Members who spend all their time in the committees, doing the research, doing the oversight – they’re the ones who should be making these [funding] decisions. We do not have a functional process. The power is too concentrated. I would say calling this organized chaos is too generous of a description.” Include All Government Spending In Budget Senator Bob Corker (R-TN): “Everything ought to be, in my opinion, in the budget. Everything including Social Security, which would cause us to focus on the fact that in the not-too-distant future it’s going to be fiscally unsound.” Senator Steve Daines (R-MT): “We need to have an up or down vote on the entire budget – one number. One number that includes discretionary and mandatory spending.” Rep. Ralph Norman (R-SC-05): “What’s amazing is the appropriations bills only cover one-third of federal spending. I would ask that we try to find solutions from those on this committee and in Congress. Entitlement spending is the biggest driver of our spending problems.” Rep. Roger Marshall (R-KS-01): “Right now, three-fourths of our federal budget is going toward entitlement programs, and it seems like we don’t have a chance in the budget or appropriations committees for doing anything. The current treatment of that spending sets up failure as there is no practical opportunity to edit or adjust the programs.” Change Committee Structure & Eliminate Budget Committee Senator Bob Corker (R-TN): “We ought to consider combining the authorizing functions and the appropriating functions together. We ought to actually do away with the Budget Committee because it performs no useful function as it relates to causing us to be fiscally sound.” Senator Steve Daines (R-MT): “I would combine the authorizing committees with the corresponding appropriations committees. Consolidate them and completely dissolve the Budget Committee. By doing this, we can start having real conversations about where to spend and how to spend it. We currently have two processes on different tracks that simply don’t sync up.” Senator Steve Daines (R-MT): “Senator Perdue and others have shown this incredible spaghetti tangle of authorizing committees and appropriations committees and then we have this Budget Committee on top of that. No wonder it produces a bad result. It’s very complicated, and it’s not unified.” Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN-01): “If you would make one change tomorrow, I would get rid of the Budget Act of the 1970s. The fact is, you have so few people on that committee who are charged with making the hard decisions of raising revenue, the hard decisions of the expenditures of those revenues in an effective and efficient manner, that people make assumptions.” Change Senate Rules Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL-04): “To ensure these bills will be completed in a timely manner, I would submit that the Senate has got to strongly consider doing away with the filibuster rule on appropriations legislation. By eliminating this practice on appropriations bills, federal funding can be streamlined, and this institution can get back to upholding our constitutional responsibility.” Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA-04): “The House routinely passes [appropriations bills]. The Senate does not because its dysfunctional cloture rule gives the minority the ability to block them. That’s easy to fix, give appropriations bills the same expedited consideration in the Senate that the reconciliation bills already have.” Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY-05): “Hopefully, our esteemed colleagues on the other side of the Capitol will come to their senses and allow a 50-vote majority on going to proceed. If they want to filibuster the bill once it gets on the floor, fine and dandy, but moving to proceed on appropriations bills ought to be a majority vote. Neither body should have the authority and power to shut down the government.” Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY-05): “Motion to proceed in the Senate should be a majority vote, especially for appropriations bills. I think the pressure should build, and is building, on the Senate to change this archaic rule that is preventing the government from operating. Consequences For Inaction Senator Steve Daines (R-MT): “We need to create incentives to pass a budget. We should look at both carrots and sticks. At a minimum, I know in Montana, they don’t get to leave until the budget’s done. There’s an incentive there to keep members there until they actually get the budget completed.” Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA-12): “There may be a better way to incentivize these bodies to act. Perhaps no August recess until appropriations bills are done. We need an incentive like this to get our process back in order, or maybe we need a new process entirely.” Change the Fiscal Year to Align With the Calendar Year House Speaker Paul Ryan: “We may not be able to change the deadlines, but we can change the calendar.” Rep. David Price (D-NC-04): “I have been following the work of this committee, and I like much of what I have heard, especially the possibility of ending debt ceiling brinkmanship or moving to a calendar year budget cycle.” Eliminate Debt Limit House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer: “The debt limit ought to be eliminated. It is a phony issue. It lends itself to gamesmanship and brinksmanship which is harmful to our country and not honest with the American people.” Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL-11): “I view the debt limit as the most unnecessary and disastrous risk to financial stability and the economic recovery over the last eight years.” Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT-04): “The debt ceiling does absolutely no good in terms of controlling the amount of debt or enforcing fiscal discipline. Let’s get rid of the hand grenade that each party gets to use once every couple of years. It led to downgrades. It led to market insecurity. Let’s get rid of it. It does absolutely no good to anybody.” Biannual Budgeting House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi: “I do believe two years for the budget, one year for appropriations legislation is the route to go.” Rep. French Hill (R-AR-02): “I fully endorse the two year budget cycle for annual budget resolutions and having a two year spending allocation under that resolution.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.29.2018	06.29.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Supreme Court & Farm Bill On Georgia TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins WRDW in Augusta and WALB in Albany to discuss Justice Kennedy’s retirement and Senate passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. Click here or on the image below to watch the WRDW interview. Click here to watch the WALB interview. Highlights: Another Superb Nominee To Come: “We want someone on the Supreme Court who will adhere to the basic fundamental principles outlined in the Constitution: economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. I think President Trump is going to bring us another superb nominee, just like he did with Neil Gorsuch.” Nothing New: “Four times since 1980 both parties have nominated and confirmed Supreme Court justices during midterm elections.” Meet Farmers’ Needs: “We’ve been working the last two years on this Farm Bill. I’ve been all over the state talking to farmers about how the current Farm Bill is working and things we can do to meet the needs of some commodity farmers. This is a bill that speaks to the peanut growers, cotton growers, pecan growers, and timber industry.” Level Playing Field: “The Farm Bill is an opportunity for us to grow exports too, and that’s one reason why President Trump right now is working so hard to create a more level playing field in the trading area with our allies and people around the world. In the long-term, that’s going to benefit our farmers and people in Georgia in the agriculture industry.” Recognize Family Effort: “Family farms are the backbone of our agriculture industry. We want to make sure that just because you aren’t on a tractor every day, it doesn’t mean you aren’t an active participant in that business. I grew up working on my family’s farm and can tell you that my aunts, my mother, my cousins, all of us had roles in the business, and they were very necessary. I’m hoping we’ll be able to fix this before the bill reaches President Trump’s desk.” 80% Solution: “This is not a perfect bill, but it’s a compromise. It’s a better than 80 percent solution. It makes sure that the ag industry continues to be treated as a strategic industry.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Farm Bill That Includes Georgia Agriculture Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, comments on Senate passage of the 2018 Farm Bill, which includes numerous key Georgia priorities: “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and a major reason why our state continues to be the best state in the country in which to do business. I’ve traveled across Georgia to listen to farmers and stakeholders in the agriculture industry. One thing is clear – this Farm Bill is a jobs bill. America’s food security is economic security. This bill saves more money than the last Farm Bill, cracks down on food stamp fraud, and preserves programs that have helped Georgia farmers weather low commodity markets. Unfortunately, an important provision was eliminated that would level the playing field for American textile mills. I’m also disappointed this bill includes a provision that will impose one-size-fits-all standards on farms, which runs counter to President Trump’s work to roll back overreaching regulations. I hope these concerns will be worked out before this bill reaches the President’s desk. Getting a bipartisan bill that balances the needs of every commodity and region is not an easy task. While this Farm Bill is not perfect, it will provide certainty to farmers in Georgia and around the country.” Prior to passage of the U.S. Senate’s 2018 Farm Bill, Senator Perdue spoke on the floor to highlight some of the provisions important to Georgia. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Perdue was an active participant in writing the 2018 Farm Bill. Senator Perdue secured the following provisions important to Georgia’s agriculture community: Protects Peanut And Cotton Farmers: Protects critical programs for Georgia’s top two commodities by preserving existing safety nets. Helps Pecan Growers Compete: Provides for the assessment of imported pecans so that foreign producers pay the same assessment fee as U.S. pecan growers. Cracks Down On SNAP Fraud: Puts in place a verification system to prevent individuals from receiving payments in more than one state at the same time. Verifies SNAP Recipients: Initiates a pilot program to verify earned income at the time of certification and recertification. Connects Georgia’s National Forests: Includes Senator Perdue’s Chattahoochee Oconee Land Adjustment Act, which gives the U.S. Forest Service the tools they need to create a more contiguous National Forest. Encourages Self-Sufficiency: Eliminates the unnecessary subsidy on all rural development loan programs to allow the programs to become self-sufficient and save the U.S. Treasury approximately $50 million per year. Establishes Agriculture Scholarships: Creates a scholarship program for students attending Historically Black Land-Grant Institutions who want to pursue a career in the agriculture industry. Gives Flexibility To Land-Grant Schools: Allows land grant universities, like Fort Valley State, to carry over unused grant funds from year to year through the Carryover Equity Act. Advances Timber Industry: Establishes performance driven research and development programs for advancing new and innovative wood construction materials. Prioritizes Turf Grass Research: Adds Turf Grass Research to the list of high priority research at colleges and universities. Strengthens Rural Cybersecurity: Allows rural utilities to use certain electric loans and loan guarantees from USDA to fund improvements to grid security and cybersecurity. Requests Critical Data: Establishes a report with necessary data to protect human and animal health against possible threats posed by imported dogs. Provides Relief For Peaches And Blueberries: Makes disaster funding available to peach and blueberry growers that were affected by recent frost damage under the Wildfire Hurricane Indemnity Program (WHIP). Supports New Farmers: Allows the Farm Service Agency, which loans to disadvantaged and new farmers, to increase its loan authority during years when the demand for FSA loans unexpectedly exceeds its cap. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Senator David Perdue: Farm Bill Is A Jobs Bill “Agriculture is not just a business, it's a way of life for many people around our country” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, spoke on the Senate floor about the 2018 Farm Bill, which is currently being considered by the U.S. Senate. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Farm Bill Is A Jobs Bill: “One thing is very clear: this Farm Bill is indeed a jobs bill. Getting this across the finish line is simply a must for rural communities in Georgia and around the country.” Prioritizes People: “I grew up working on the land and learned many hard lessons. At an early age, I learned that agriculture is not just a business, it's a way of life for many people around our country. This Farm Bill is an investment in those people, in our ag industry, and indeed in our country.” Provides Certainty: “Over the long term, this will bring certainty to the American agriculture community. The last thing family farms need from Washington is more burdens, more regulations, and more intrusion.” Achieves The Objective: “We have cracked down on fraud within the food stamps program. We have advanced turf grass and timber research. We have included provisions important to land grant universities. Now, this Farm Bill is not perfect, but it is a great compromise that achieves the objective. Competing Globally: “One provision that was eliminated would have helped ensure American textile mills have the tools they need to compete with other countries. I hope we can find a way to fix that.” One-Size-Fits-All Doesn’t Work: “Farms across our country have considerable differences based on things from region to crops to climate conditions. Given these differences, one-size-fits-all measurements clearly don't work. It's unfortunate there is now an amendment on this Farm Bill that would measure contributions to the family farm by applying a single manual threshold for farms across the country. I think this is just wrong.” Family Effort Should Be Recognized: “The opportunity to qualify as an ‘active contributor’ to the farm through management, bookkeeping, and other activities is important because it recognizes the contributions of all family members and individuals who actually participate in farming operations. I can tell you from personal experience that if it were not for my aunts, my cousins, my uncles, our farms would not have been successful. The point is even if an individual never drives a tractor, never plows a field, never milks a cow, he or she can still provide an important contribution to the vitality of the farm operation. It's a business, after all. Between now and when this Farm Bill reaches President Trump's desk, I hope this problem with the bill gets fixed.” Backbone Of Agriculture: “I can tell you nobody gets 100% of everything they want in any deal. That's what we are here talking about today. While the current Farm Bill is not perfect, I encourage every member to support it and vote for it. It provides certainty in a very uncertain world for our agriculture community and the families who are the backbone of this industry.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Retirement Of Justice Kennedy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the retirement of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy: “Justice Kennedy has served our country honorably for decades, and I join the country in wishing him all the best as he retires from the Supreme Court. President Trump made a fantastic choice with Justice Gorsuch, and I’m confident he will make another outstanding nomination, given that the decisions made by the United States Supreme Court have such a long-lasting impact on our nation.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.26.2018	06.26.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On U.S. Supreme Court’s Travel Ruling WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the United States Supreme Court’s decision to uphold President Trump’s strengthened vetting requirements for entry into the United States from countries that pose a national security risk: “It’s the President of the United States’ responsibility to protect American citizens. The Supreme Court made clear today that President Trump is acting well within his authority by increasing our country’s baseline security requirements for Iran, North Korea, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia, and Venezuela. There’s no denying that each of these countries present us with a range of destabilizing threats, and it’s reassuring that we have a President today who’s proactively strengthening security measures in order to protect our homeland.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.25.2018	06.25.18 First Funding Package Passes Senate, Senator David Perdue’s Port Provision Included WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on passage of the first package of 2019 funding bills: “Congress has moved one step closer to funding our government on time. This first funding package addresses many important items, including a provision I introduced to help the government prioritize deep-draft navigation projects, which will generate a great economic return. East Coast ports are not deep enough to accommodate fully loaded Post Panamax ships, and this puts our country at a competitive disadvantage in the global trade market. Prioritizing these port projects will help keep us on pace with other trade competitors like China and generate a significant economic return when they are completed. “Let’s not forget though, Congress has just nine weeks left on the Senate calendar before the end of the fiscal year on September 30. There is still much more work to be done. President Trump was clear when he said he will not sign another last-minute omnibus spending bill again. This is a good start, and I stand ready to work around the clock to get the results the American people sent us here to deliver.” Senator Perdue’s provision included in the final bill ensures at least $100 million of the Army Corps’ unobligated construction account funding will go to deep draft navigation projects. This would give projects, like the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, a boost in its efforts to obtain full capability funding in FY19. Additionally, Senator Perdue is leading a push to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and President Trump’s nominees in order to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Thursday, May 10, 2018. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.25.2018	06.25.18 WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Georgia Farmers & Agriculture Leaders Applaud 2018 Farm Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Georgia farmers and agriculture industry leaders are applauding committee passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) helped craft the bipartisan plan and secured a number of provisions important to Georgia. The Farm Bill now heads to the Senate floor for a vote. Georgia Agribusiness Council: “Having a bipartisan Farm Bill advance in the Senate gives great hope for a struggling, complicated agriculture industry. There is much to celebrate in the provisions of this legislation. These benefits will support not only our farmers, but the rural communities that rely on their determination and sustainability. We thank Senator Perdue for acting on the needs of this vital industry.” – Bryan Tolar, President, Georgia Agribusiness Council Georgia Cotton Commission: “We in Georgia agriculture thank Senator Perdue for his leadership on moving the Farm Bill forward. While this bill is not perfect with cotton funding reduced, if it passes, it will allow for farmers like me to go forward and make long term plans for the future of our small businesses. The stability this bill gives farmers will also help our struggling rural communities.” – Bart Davis, Chairman, Georgia Cotton Commission Georgia Department of Agriculture: “Farmers need certainty. There are several aspects of this committee passed Farm Bill that will give them that assurance, and perhaps the process of finding some common ground with America’s farm policy will contribute to progress in meeting other challenges facing the nation as well.” – Gary W. Black, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Agriculture Georgia Farm Bureau: “With commodity prices nearing historic lows and ongoing concerns about the direction of U.S. trade policy, farmers in Georgia and across our nation stand to benefit from the certainty that a long-term farm bill reauthorization would provide. Georgia Farm Bureau is pleased to see the Senate working diligently and in a bipartisan manner to advance its version of the 2018 farm bill, and we are grateful for the leadership of Senator David Perdue during this important debate.” – Gerald Long, President, Georgia Farm Bureau Georgia Forestry Association: “With the inclusion of provisions such as the ‘Timber Innovation Act’ and the ‘Working Lands for Wildlife’ voluntary species conservation program, the Senate Farm Bill’s commitment to Georgia’s 450,000 private forest landowners is clear. We applaud the leadership of Senator Perdue and the entire Senate Agriculture Committee for delivering a bill that moves the needle forward on protection of private property rights and the creation of new markets for forest products among the myriad of other competing priorities sought for this bill.” – Andres Villegas, President and CEO, Georgia Forestry Association Georgia Fruit & Vegetable Growers Association: "Georgia’s fruit and vegetable industry is pleased the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee has passed bipartisan legislation moving the 2018 Farm Bill forward. Senator David Perdue’s service on the Agriculture Committee played a critical role in assuring our specialty crop producers had a voice during the drafting of the farm bill legislation. Senator Perdue hosted a separate specialty crop and research listening session in Tifton, Georgia, earlier this year, to hear directly from our leadership about how the Farm Bill relates to our industry. These top specialty crop provisions were included in the legislation. We are very grateful for his leadership on our issues of importance." – Charles Hall, Executive Director, Georgia Fruit & Vegetable Growers Association Georgia Peanut Commission: "We are very pleased the bill is moving forward. This is a good farm bill for all peanut regions and segments of the peanut industry. The bipartisan vote in support of the farm bill is indicative of committee leadership working together. Without representation on the Agriculture Committee, it would be difficult for our voices to be heard." – Armond Morris, Chairman, Georgia Peanut Commission Fort Valley State University: “I am very pleased that there are several 1890 University priorities included in the Senate Farm Bill legislation that will directly benefit the Fort Valley State University community. The 1890 student scholarship in agriculture program that Senator Perdue helped spearhead in the Senate will help dozens of students each year achieve their dreams of going to college. In addition, the new 1890 Centers of Excellence initiative is one that I am particularly excited about for FVSU and our student and faculty research efforts. I want to thank Senator Perdue and our Georgia delegation for putting the educational and agricultural needs of Georgia’s universities first.” – Dr. Paul Jones, President, Fort Valley State University Southern Cotton Growers, Inc.: "We greatly appreciate Senator Perdue and the Committee as a whole for their bipartisan approach in delivering a Farm Bill in an expeditious manner. We also thank Senator Perdue for his leadership in fighting back damaging amendments and preserving the safety net for cotton and other southern commodities." – David Ruppenicker, CEO, Southern Cotton Growers, Inc. American Peanut Shellers Association: “The State of Georgia grows and shells more peanuts than any other state in the United States. That growing and shelling combined with related services and product manufacturing supplies a huge economic benefit to the state as well as employment for thousands of Georgians. Historically, farm bills have not passed Congress by the expiration of the existing Farm Bill and extensions have been necessary. We applaud Senator Perdue as a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee for his efforts in passing this new strong Farm Bill through committee and on its way to the floor of the Senate before the expiration of the current Farm Bill.” – John T. Powell, Executive Director, American Peanut Shellers Association ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.25.2018	06.25.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Immigration & Trade On Georgia Radio WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Denis O’Hayer on WABE’s Morning Edition and Laura Anderson on AM Savannah to discuss immigration, trade, defense funding, the debt crisis, and full funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP). Highlights: Strengthening Our Military: “Military investment around the state of Georgia is critical. We have nine military installations, and Savannah is a huge part of that because of the port, air facilities, and the big footprint of Fort Stewart. The defense funding bill really helps our military get back the strength we need it to have.” Past The Tipping Point: “The Medicare trust fund will require cuts in eight years. We have a $21 trillion debt. The Social Security Trust Fund will require cuts in about 12 years. My frustration is that we have a hard time getting a dialogue going in Washington about those issues.” Enforcing The Law: “This is a crisis, but we will solve immigration. President Trump is enforcing the law, and we want to keep the families together. There is no reason we can’t do both." Leveling The Playing Field: “What President Trump is trying to do is create a level playing field. Germany just offered a deal to mutually eliminate tariffs. That’s a big step forward. SHEP Fully Funded: “We now have full funding to get the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project going next year. I’m optimistic that we can increase our exports if we get equal access around the world, and that is what President Trump is trying to do.” Economic Engine: “We could finish the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project in the next four or so years. That is critical because these big Panamax ships are already coming into the Port, but they are having to come in half loaded. If the ships can be fully loaded it will be much cheaper, help us export more, and create jobs. The Port is a huge economic engine in Savannah.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.22.2018	06.22.18 Senator David Perdue Acts To Relieve Regulatory Burden On Health Care Providers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is taking action to simplify regulations governing physician self-referrals under the Medicare program. Currently, the Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly referred to as Stark law, makes no distinction between technical and substantive violations, even when there has been no legitimate violation or harm to the Medicare program. Senator Perdue’s proposal would create an alternate self-disclosure path for unintentional, technical errors that will give health care providers more certainty and predictability. This will also free up Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) resources to pursue more egregious violations. “For years, physicians in Georgia and across the country have been forced to operate under anti-competitive regulations, costing health care providers hundreds of thousands of dollars annually,” said Senator Perdue. “As a business guy, I know how critical it is to predict expenses when you’re operating on a budget. The overreaching Stark Law fails to distinguish minor technical errors from serious violations, resulting in costly unexpected fines. Rural health care providers simply cannot afford this uncertainty. It’s time to cut through this bureaucratic process so our health care providers can focus on caring for their patients and staying competitive.” “The Georgia Hospital Association supports the efforts of Senator David Perdue to decrease the regulatory burden on health care providers with the introduction of the Stark Administrative Simplification Act,” said Earl Rogers, President and CEO of the Georgia Hospital Association. “Hospitals and physicians should not be subject to unpredictable financial penalties for inadvertent technical violations of complex regulatory requirements. Senator Perdue’s proposed legislation would provide a consistent course to addressing technical violations, encourage health care providers to self-disclose procedural issues, and create cost savings for the federal government.” “We applaud Senator Perdue’s leadership on this important issue,” said Dr. Raj Garg, President and CEO of Cancer Treatment Centers of America. “Senator Perdue understands how thousands of pages of Stark regulations have become an anti-competitive anchor in health care and stifled innovation thereby reducing the quality of care available to patients and increasing costs to taxpayers. The Stark Administrative Simplification Act is an important first step to remove some of those obstacles and a foundation on which to build the further urgently needed Stark reforms.” “The Medical Association of Georgia thanks and applauds Senator Perdue for his vision and leadership,” said Dr. Frank McDonald Jr., President of Medical Association of Georgia. “This legislation addresses Stark law in important ways, including giving physicians some much-needed certainty and peace of mind and reducing the need for them to carry large cash reserves while CMS makes decisions about the Self-Referral Disclosure Protocol.” View the bill text here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.22.2018	06.22.18 HHS Wasted $89,000,000,000; Senator David Perdue Is Asking For Answers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Republican members of the Senate Budget Committee in asking the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to explain how the agency plans to stop wasteful spending and address the $89 billion in improper Medicaid and Medicare payments the agency paid in fiscal year 2017. “Improper payments continue to be a major problem for the federal government,” wrote the senators. “The Government Accountability Office (GAO) estimates that government-wide improper payments totaled $141 billion in fiscal year 2017. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) estimates that approximately $89 billion, or 63 percent of all improper payments, were made within the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We are deeply concerned by the substantial amount of improper payments in these two programs. Your attention to this matter is needed to ensure that taxpayer dollars are adequately safeguarded.” "Acting on the outstanding GAO recommendations is essential to reducing the amount of improper payments in these programs…As members of the Senate Budget Committee, we believe that a high priority must be placed on reducing improper payments and ensuring proper stewardship of taxpayer dollars,” wrote the senators. The Budget Committee members also highlighted several GAO recommendations for reducing improper payments in Medicare and Medicaid that could be implemented without action from Congress. These include: Monitoring the Recovery Audit Data Warehouse to ensure that all Medicare post-payment review contractors are submitting required data and that the database contents are accurate and complete Requiring states to measure quantifiable benefits, such as cost reductions or avoidance, achieved as a result of operating information systems to help prevent and detect improper payments Identifying opportunities to address barriers that limit States’ participation in collaborative audits for Medicaid Taking immediate steps to assess and improve data available for Medicaid program oversight Read the full letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.21.2018	06.21.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Plan To Reorganize Federal Government WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s plan to reorganize and consolidate the federal government: “President Trump is a business guy and knows reorganizing the federal government is the only way to bring it up to speed with the real world. Businesses reorganize and consolidate departments all the time. Over the past 16 years, our government has exploded from $2.4 trillion to $4.2 trillion. Look at the results – big government has failed. President Trump knows that if we’re going to rein in this egregious debt we have to make the government responsible and accountable to the American people.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Senator David Perdue Authors Fix To Keep Families Together Changes the law so families stay together & hires hundreds of immigration judges WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined his colleagues in introducing a solution to fix current law so families remain together while parents go through immigration proceedings. “President Trump wants to enforce the law and keep families together, and this bill does both,” said Senator Perdue. “Alternatively, what the Democrats have proposed would incentivize more people to come into our country illegally. Now is the time for cooperation from both sides in Congress, so we can successfully send a solution to the President’s desk.” The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act will: Keeps families together while adults are prosecuted for illegally entering the United States Increases the bed space in family residential facilities Authorizes hiring of an additional 225 immigration judges to quickly process cases Senator Perdue has been working to fix our broken immigration system since he came to the U.S. Senate. He has introduced three targeted bills: the RAISE Act, SECURE Act, and Secure and Succeed Act. The last two bills would have helped to prevent the problems we’re seeing at the border. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Senator David Perdue: Cutting Unnecessary Funding Should Be An Easy Vote “This debt crisis will get worse, and it’s time for Washington to come to grips with this reality.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) calls out the United States Senate for its unwillingness to debate spending cuts on unused and expired government programs: “We are past the tipping point in this debt crisis. Today, most of the money we spend on our military, our veterans, and domestic discretionary programs is borrowed money. President Trump realizes this, which is why he suggested cutting unused and expired government programs. These are simple cuts, arguably the easiest we could make, and they should have been easily supported today. This debt crisis will get worse, and it’s time for Washington to come to grips with this reality.” Yesterday, Senator Perdue publically urged his colleagues to support his bill that rescinds government funding for unused and expired government programs. These programs were approved on March 23, 2018 in Congress’ massive, last minute omnibus bill, which Senator Perdue voted against. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On White House Meeting About ZTE Penalty “We made serious strides in solving ZTE issues in defense bill” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on his meeting with President Trump about removing short-sighted ZTE language in the Senate’s annual defense bill: “Today, we made serious strides in solving the ZTE issues in the defense bill. President Trump should not have his hands tied as he engages in major negotiations dealing with trade and the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Our shared goal must be to make America the best place in the world to do business, and Congress should not undercut our commander-in-chief during these critical negotiations on the world stage. After today’s meeting at the White House, I am confident we will get this worked out before the final bill lands on the President’s desk.” Last week, over the objections of Senator Perdue, language was added to the Senate’s annual defense bill that will undermine President Trump and the Commerce Department’s ruling to impose its harshest fines and most severe penalties ever against the Chinese-company, ZTE. Senator Perdue took action. Senator Perdue called out his Senate colleagues for trying to undercut President Trump on these ongoing trade negotiations with China. “I’m tired of senators trying to undercut President Trump at every turn, especially in the middle of a negotiating process…I believe it will undercut our ability to negotiate, and it jeopardizes our negotiators credibility,” said Senator Perdue. Senator Perdue introduced an amendment that would prevent Congress from limiting the export control authority of the Commerce Department, while still prohibiting the entire U.S. government from purchasing ZTE products: “The Commerce Department has leveled a harsh but justified penalty. However, the current NDAA manager’s package would trample on the separation of powers and undercut the Trump Administration’s authority to impose these penalties,” said Senator Perdue. Senator Perdue is working to strip out language that restricts the Trump Administration’s ability to settle the ZTE issues when the chambers of Congress meet to conference their respective defense bills. The Conference Committee is expected to meet later this summer. After the Conference Committee reconciles the differences in both bills, the final product will be sent to both chambers of Congress for a vote before heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Conservative Senators Introduce White House Rescission Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Mike Lee (R-UT), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Joni Ernst (R-IA), David Perdue (R-GA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Rand Paul (R-KY), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Ben Sasse (R-NE) introduced the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act Thursday, a bill that would formally rescind the $15 billion in unneeded spending identified by the White House on May 8, 2018. “Yes, a $15 billion spending reduction is a drop in the bucket compared to a $15 trillion debt,” Senator Lee said. “But we have to start cutting spending somewhere. Because if we don’t, if we continue to allow federal government spending to grow faster than the economy as a whole, at some point economic reality will force us to do so in a much more painful manner later.” “Our country doesn’t have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem,” Senator Johnson said. “While these cuts won’t solve our debt problems – far from it – they are an important step in the right direction by eliminating unnecessary and excessive spending throughout the federal government.” “This proposal will help end the deception where Congress over funds popular programs like CHIP only to shift the excess money to unrelated programs when the American people aren’t looking,” Senator Toomey said. “It is a modest but important step in the direction of honest budgeting and protecting taxpayers.” “Rescinding these dollars now ensures that Congress doesn’t use them as a budget gimmick later,” Senator Ernst said. “This rescissions bill is a common-sense initiative to ensure that the federal government is a better and more effective steward of hard-working Americans’ money.” “We are past the tipping point in this debt crisis,” said Senator Perdue. “Today, most of the money we spend on our military, our veterans, and domestic discretionary programs is borrowed money. This will get worse and it’s time for Washington to come to grips with this reality. President Trump has—that’s why his team is proposing to cut these unused and expired government programs. These are simple cuts, arguably the easiest we could make, and they should be supported by every member in Congress.” “Unfortunately, the Senate was unable to cut one penny from every dollar through a budget bill I proposed last week. I am hopeful they will support cutting half a penny from every dollar through this rescissions package,” Senator Paul said. The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act 1974 empowers the president to send a rescission message to Congress specifying the accounts, programs, and amounts to be rescinded. The funds are then locked down for 45 days allowing Congress to either approve, modify, or ignore the president’s rescission request. According to Senate rules, all rescission legislation must go to committee where the committee then has 25 days to act before the legislation can be discharged to the floor. By introducing this legislation today, that 25-day window for discharge will run out before the 45-day window for congressional action. An online version of this release can be found here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Senator David Perdue Urges Passage of President Trump’s Spending Cuts WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins U.S. Senators Mike Lee (R-UT), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Mike Rounds (R-SD) in urging the Senate to pass President Trump’s rescissions bill, which cuts nearly $15 billion in unnecessary spending to tackle the debt crisis. Watch Senator Perdue's full remarks here. Highlights Not A One Solution Problem: “There is no one solution to this debt crisis. We are not going to cut our way out of this debt crisis, we are not going to spend our way out of it, we are not going to tax our way out of it, and we are not going to grow your way out of it.” Economic Growth Essential: “We have to grow the economy. Every one percent of GDP growth adds about $300 billion dollars of revenue to the federal coffers.” Cut Wasteful Spending: “We have to cut spending. The Congressional Budget Office estimates there’s $700 to $800 billion dollars of wasteful spending and uncollected revenue by the federal government.” Fix The Budget Process: “We have to fix this broken budget process that’s only funded the government four times in the last 44 years. Congress should stay here and fund the government before the end of the fiscal year to avoid another omnibus bill that increases spending.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.18.2018	06.18.18 Senator David Perdue Supports Defense Bill That Includes Georgia Military Priorities Includes more than 30 Georgia priorities secured by Senator Perdue WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, on passage of the U.S. Senate’s annual defense bill, which includes dozens of key Georgia priorities: “Our nation faces evolving threats across the globe, and our women and men in uniform need our full support. President Trump is working with Congress to rebuild and modernize our military capabilities. This defense bill delivers the necessary resources to see this mission through. With nine military installations across the state, Georgia’s military community plays a key role in fulfilling the Trump Administration’s National Defense Strategy. This bill gives our bases the tools they need to continue defending Americans at home and abroad.” Background As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Perdue was an active participant in discussions around this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The defense bill includes the following provisions important to Georgia’s military community: Military Equipment: Ensures funding for a wide range of military equipment produced by businesses across the state of Georgia. This will include a boost for Columbia Class submarines at Kings Bay, as well as the production of C-130 aircraft in Marietta, F-35s across the state, and Compass Call aircraft in Savannah. STEM: Directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop competitive strategies to incentivize STEM hiring in Georgia and across the nation. Cyber: Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish Cyber Institutes at colleges and universities that have Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, with special consideration for Georgia’s Senior Military Colleges. This also directs the DOD to partner with universities and industry on cyber education and training. JSTARS: Prohibits the retirement of any aircraft in the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) fleet, which is flown out of Robins Air Force Base, and secures funding for critical upgrades to enhance the operability and service life of aircraft. Infrastructure: Addresses the necessity to improve infrastructure, increase resiliency, and ensure the long-term sustainment of all of our Georgia bases. Research and Development: Provides funding for a range of initiatives at universities and businesses across the state and will include advanced technologies, munitions, and cyber testing and training facilities at Fort Gordon. Readiness: Secures funding for the re-winging of A-10 aircraft based at Moody Air Force Base, promotes military spouse employment at bases across the state, and reaffirms the need for the civilian depot workforce at Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany and Robins Air Force Base. Operations: Directs the Secretary of Defense to initiate a joint approach on electromagnetic spectrum operations, which will make Georgia bases critical to the entire DOD in the electromagnetic spectrum field. Read more here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.15.2018	06.15.18 Senator David Perdue Announces Service Academy Appointments ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced the appointments of 18 Georgia students nominated by his office to the United States Service Academies. To download photos, click here or on the image below. (From L-R: LTC Ken Konstanzer, Julia Davis, Payton Rawson, Sung O, Anthony Odom, Kyle Samuels, Emmi Schakat, Tim Leurart, Kathryn Brewer, 2LT Trey Grindley) “Over the years, these young women and men have excelled in academics, shown a high level of physical fitness, and demonstrated the moral and ethical values it takes to succeed in our Armed Services,” said Senator Perdue. “Now, they will spend the next four years preparing to lead America’s soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. This is a testament of their willingness to face challenges, deal with adversity, and serve our country. I have no doubt they will rise to meet the challenges of our time. Congratulations to these students on achieving this high honor, and thank you to their parents, families, mentors, and everyone who helped get them to this point.” U.S. Air Force Academy Sung O (Columbus) Anthony Odom (McDonough) Payton Rawson (Lawrenceville) Kyle Samuels (Statesboro) U.S. Military Academy Bliss Hutchings (Brunswick) Emmi Schakat (Blairsville) Paris Williams (Atlanta) David Woodward (Alpharetta) Paul Stanley (Atlanta) U.S. Naval Academy Krystyna Bartocci (Evans) Julia Davis (Warner Robins) Wyatt Redmond (Cataula) Emma Slavens (Columbus) Sarah Sorensen (Kennesaw) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Ian Blankenship (McRae) Kathryn Brewer (Buford) Tim Leurart (Ball Ground) Blaine McDonough (Marietta) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.14.2018	06.14.18 Senator David Perdue Pushes For Additional Changes To Final Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is standing up against the politically-motivated trade amendments wrapped up in the annual defense bill. This week, over the objections of Senator Perdue, language was added to the defense bill that will undermine President Trump and the Commerce Department’s ruling to impose its harshest fines and most severe penalties ever against the Chinese-company, ZTE. Senator Perdue is taking action. On Tuesday, Senator Perdue called out his Senate colleagues for trying to undercut President Trump on these ongoing trade negotiations with China. “I’m tired of senators trying to undercut President Trump at every turn, especially in the middle of a negotiating process…I believe it will undercut our ability to negotiate, and it jeopardizes our negotiators credibility,” said Senator Perdue. On Wednesday, Senator Perdue fought to remove the ZTE language through unanimous consent. Specifically, Senator Perdue’s amendment would only prevent Congress from limiting the export control authority of the Commerce Department, while still prohibiting the entire U.S. government from purchasing ZTE products: “The Commerce Department has leveled a harsh but justified penalty. However, the current NDAA manager’s package would trample on the separation of powers and undercut the Trump Administration’s authority to impose these penalties,” said Senator Perdue. Today, Senator Perdue, the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress who has lived and worked all over the world, made the following statement about the status of the ZTE debate: “For years, America has often been treated unfairly when it comes to trade. My goal – which should be the goal of every Senator – is to make sure America is the best place in the world to do business and we remain competitive with the rest of the world. This cannot happen if we tie the hands of our commander-in-chief during critical trade negotiations. Many of my colleagues agree we can achieve a better result if we modify this short-sighted ZTE language in the final agreement between the House and Senate.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.14.2018	06.14.18 Senator David Perdue Secures Major Georgia Priorities In 2018 Farm Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, secured numerous provisions important to Georgia in the Senate’s 2018 Farm Bill, which now awaits consideration by the full U.S. Senate. “Agriculture is Georgia’s top industry. Growing up working on my family’s farm, I learned that agriculture is both a business and a way of life,” said Senator Perdue. “For years, I’ve been meeting with farmers across Georgia and stakeholders in the agriculture industry to see how we can make life easier for them to do their jobs. While this Farm Bill is far from perfect and there is more work to do, we are taking steps toward providing certainty and continuity to rural America.” Senator Perdue’s provisions address a range of issues from safeguarding Georgia growers and producers, to modernizing existing programs like Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Here are some highlights: Protects Peanut And Cotton Farmers: Protects critical programs for Georgia’s top two commodities by preserving existing safety nets. Helps Pecan Growers Compete: Provides for the assessment of imported pecans so that foreign producers pay the same assessment fee as U.S. pecan growers. Connects Georgia’s National Forests: Includes Senator Perdue’s Chattahoochee Oconee Land Adjustment Act, which gives the U.S. Forest Service the tools they need to create a more contiguous National Forest. Encourages Self-Sufficiency: Eliminates the unnecessary subsidy on all rural development loan programs to allow the programs to become self-sufficient and save the U.S. Treasury approximately $50 million per year. Establishes Agriculture Scholarships: Creates a scholarship program for students attending Historically Black Land-Grant Institutions who want to pursue a career in the agriculture industry. Gives Flexibility To Land-Grant Schools: Allows land grant universities, like Fort Valley State, to carry over unused grant funds from year to year through the Carryover Equity Act. Cracks Down On SNAP Fraud: Puts in place a verification system to prevent individuals from receiving payments in more than one state at the same time. Verifies SNAP Recipients: Initiates a pilot program to verify earned income at the time of certification and recertification. Advances Timber Industry: Establishes performance driven research and development programs for advancing new and innovative wood construction materials. Prioritizes Turf Grass Research: Adds Turf Grass Research to the list of high priority research at colleges and universities. Strengthens Rural Cybersecurity: Allows rural utilities to use certain electric loans and loan guarantees from USDA to fund improvements to grid security and cybersecurity. Requests Critical Data: Establishes a report with necessary data to protect human and animal health against possible threats posed by imported dogs. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.14.2018	06.14.18 Senator David Perdue Acts To Clean Up Government, Hold Bureaucrats Accountable WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, takes action to hold Department of Defense employees accountable for their work performance through an amendment to the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. “In the United States federal government today, it’s virtually impossible to fire bureaucrats who are failing to do their jobs. Right now, it can take up to a year or longer to fire a civilian employee at the Department of Defense, even if they’re not meeting the job requirements. Any business owner knows you need the highest performing staff available, and the DOD should be no different. We’re facing a national security crisis and a $21 trillion debt crisis; we cannot afford to keep employees who don’t do their job. Since President Trump took office, more than 1,550 underperforming bureaucrats have been fired at the VA because of a similar law that was passed last year. It’s time the same approach is applied to the Department of Defense.” Currently, it can take six months to a year, and sometimes longer, to demote, reassign, or dismiss an employee for poor performance. This provision compresses the timeline for the notice and review of suspension, reassignment, demotion, or removal actions, while maintaining the rights of the employee to review actions against them, have proper representation, and appeal decisions. It also maintains the protection of whistleblower actions that may cause unfair reviews or actions against the individual. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.13.2018	06.13.18 Senator David Perdue Sounds Alarm On Debt Crisis & Increased Interest Payments Rate hike amounts to billions in new interest owed on national debt WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking and Budget Committees, comments on the Federal Reserve raising interest rates for the second time this year: “It’s time Washington finally comes to grips with the reality of this $21 trillion debt crisis. Today’s quarter point interest rate hike could add as much as $50 billion of new interest on our national debt. If interest rates return to their 30-year average of five percent, the federal government will owe $1 trillion in interest every year. That’s impossible to manage given our current financial situation, not to mention with 10,000 baby boomers retiring every day. Congress must deal with this debt crisis now, or we’ll lose the ability to do the right thing and fund priorities like our veterans and national defense.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.12.2018	06.12.18 Senator David Perdue: The Only Winner President Trump Is Picking Is America “I’m tired of senators trying to undercut President Trump at every turn” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) called out his colleagues on the Senate floor today, insisting President Trump be given the room he needs to negotiate trade deals that are in the best interest for American workers and consumers. The President’s efforts to make America more competitive and level the playing field have been constantly undercut by members of both parties. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Business Perspective: “I have worked in the trade environment internationally most of my career. I can tell you for a fact that in the last 40 years we have been in a trade war.” Fixing Imbalances: “When it comes to trade – including trade with some of our closest allies – America isn’t being treated fairly and hasn’t been for some time.” Career Of Negotiations: “Like me, President Trump is an outsider to this political process. He is a business guy who spent his career successfully negotiating deals all over the world. For years, he has seen how American has often been treated unfairly when it comes to trade.” Approach Is Working: “As we’ve seen in his personal career and his presidential career over the last 15 months – with NATO, South Korea, and at the historic summit in North Korea – President Trump’s approach is working.” Stop Undercutting Negotiations: “I’m tired of senators trying to undercut President Trump at every turn, especially in the middle of a negotiating process.” Quit Jeopardizing Credibility: “It’s remarkably shortsighted for politicians to complicate the situation with this ZTE Amendment. I believe it will undercut our ability to negotiate, and it jeopardizes our negotiators credibility.” Tough Conversations: “If you want meaningful results on trade, you have to have courage to have serious, tough conversations with other countries, regardless of how many headaches it may cause for some folks back in Washington.” America First: “To those who say this President is only picking winners and losers, let me say this: the only winner President Trump is picking is America.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.11.2018	06.11.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On North Korea Summit “Critical summit is happening because of President Trump’s leadership” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the United States’ summit with North Korea: “This critical summit is happening because of President Trump’s leadership and unwavering resolve to make the world a safer place. We want to move toward the objectives President Trump has laid out: total denuclearization, as well as a potential peace treaty to end the Korean War, with reunification talks down the road. President Trump and Secretary Pompeo deserve an enormous amount of credit from the global community for getting North Korea talking and engaging in a productive way. The Trump Administration has my full confidence as they move forward in these key talks.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.11.2018	06.11.18 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Secure Funding Needed To Keep Savannah Harbor Deepening On Track President Trump approves $85 million for Savannah Harbor Expansion Project WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), have secured much-needed funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track this year. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its fiscal year 2018 work plan, which includes $35 million in additional funds for the critical project. The Trump administration announced last year that the project would receive $50.06 million in the president’s fiscal year 2018 budget request. The original request plus the funding increase in the Army Corps’ updated work plan brings the total fiscal year 2018 federal funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion project to roughly $85 million – enough to keep the economic development project on track. “I thank President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney and the Corps of Engineers for demonstrating their commitment to completing this project that is so critical to our economy,” said Senator Isakson. “The Port of Savannah is boasting record numbers each month. Ensuring the on-time completion of this project is a win for trade, a win for the economy and a win for the hundreds of thousands of jobs the Port of Savannah supports.” “Finally, the Port of Savannah will receive long overdue investment from the federal government,” said Senator Perdue. “President Trump pledged to make infrastructure a priority, and again, we are seeing his Administration deliver on promises. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project has the best return on investment of any Army Corps of Engineers project in the country at 7.3 to 1. As the fourth largest and fastest growing port in the United States, this project not only benefits Georgia, but also the entire Eastern half of the country. There is no doubt SHEP is Georgia’s top infrastructure project and will help our country compete globally.” “I am thrilled that President Trump and OMB Director Mulvaney and the Corps of Engineers have shown that they realize the critical importance of this project by committing strong federal funding,” said Congressman Carter. “With a return on investment of 7.3 to 1, every step closer to completion is a step closer to realizing the full economic impact this project will have on the nation and the world. We will continue fighting for this federal support to keep the project moving forward and on time until it becomes a reality.” The fiscal year 2018 government funding measure signed into law on March 23, 2018, included a $337 million increase over the president’s original budget request for construction of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers navigation projects, including the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Background: A study by the Selig Center for Economic Growth at the University of Georgia’s Terry College of Business reported this year that Georgia’s ports support 439,220 full- and part-time jobs across the state. The federal government must allot at least $80 - $100 million annually during the duration of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project to ensure it will be completed on time. Failure to do so will result in delays that could ultimately cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. Following the president’s February 2018 budget request, Isakson, Perdue and Carter urged full funding for the project and invited President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to visit the Port of Savannah at the earliest opportunity for a tour to better understand its value to American business. In March, the Georgia Ports Authority brought the first of four new neo-Panamax cranes on line and broke ground on its $126.7 million Mason Mega Rail Terminal. The expansion will increase the Port of Savannah’s rail lift capacity to 1 million containers per year and open new markets from Memphis, Tenn., to St. Louis, Mo., to Chicago, Ill., to Cincinnati, Ohio. Dredging began to deepen the seaward half of the Savannah harbor, which extends 18.5 miles from Fort Pulaski into the Atlantic Ocean, in September 2015. A massive dredging effort began on Dec. 1, 2017, to complete the final phase of the outer channel deepening for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Deepening of the outer harbor was completed on Feb. 27, 2018. The next step will be to award a contract for dredging of the inner harbor. ###
06.08.2018	06.08.18 Senator David Perdue at Faith & Freedom: Self-Determination Trumps State Control WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke at the Faith & Freedom Coalition’s Road to Majority Conference on the global struggle between self-determination and state control. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Today’s Challenge: “For the next 50 years, the struggle in the world will be between self-determination and state control.” Wrong Approach: “Generations of foreign policy experts have thought that giving China more access to our markets and an increased standing in the world would make the country freer, lean toward our values, and more capitalistic. Well, they have all been very wrong.” Marx Statue: “Last month would have been Karl Marx’s 200th birthday. One country actually built, paid for, and shipped a huge statue of Marx to his birthplace in Trier, Germany. That country was the People’s Republic of China. This underscores how, today, China is dedicated to communism.” Bible Ban: “In April, the Chinese government continued its crackdown on Christianity by banning online Bible sales. Today, the Bible is the only major religious text in China that is banned from being sold commercially.” Social Credit Scores: “The Chinese government is creating a social credit score based on how well each individual conforms to state standards. Within two years, one-fifth of the world’s population is going to have an arbitrary government score that potentially restricts their freedom.” Importance Of Freedom: “We know the importance of freedom. We know God is the source of our freedom. We know that self-determination has always trumped state control. However, for self-determination to win around the world, it has to win here at home.” Unleash A New Era: “If we are committed to self-determination and freedom, we can help unleash a new era of opportunity, security, and prosperity around the world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.08.2018	06.08.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Federal Investment in Georgia Highway System U.S. Department of Transportation awards grant for SR 400 project WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation for contributing to the State Route 400 (SR 400) Express Lanes Corridor Project, a public-private partnership project that will add 65 lane miles and is expected to reduce traffic delays by 18 percent. “As thousands of Georgians see every day, the State Route 400 corridor has experienced tremendous growth, leading to increased congestion for folks trying to get to work and provide for their families,” said Senator Isakson. “I was glad to help support this project, and I appreciate the attention and leadership shown by Secretary Chao and President Trump to prioritize Americans’ needs through investments in our infrastructure that will help hardworking families and our economy.” “Under President Trump’s direction, the federal government is starting to prioritize economic development projects based on return on investment, just like businesses do in the real world,” said Senator Perdue. “This announcement is a perfect example. Hundreds of thousands of people travel through Atlanta every day, and this project will help reduce traffic delays while supporting additional growth in the metro region. Thank you to both President Trump and Secretary Chao for making Atlanta’s infrastructure needs a priority.” “Georgia is fortunate to have infrastructure advocates like President Trump and Secretary Chao in Washington championing transportation progress for the nation, while Senators Isakson and Perdue are dedicated to keeping Georgians moving forward. As always we are grateful for their support,” said Georgia Department of Transportation Commissioner Russell McMurry. “The SR 400 Express Lanes project – one of Georgia’s 11 initial Major Mobility Investment Projects – will greatly benefit our state. We’re glad to see it coming to fruition.” According to the Georgia Department of Transportation, SR 400 averages up to 230,000 cars a day and has two segments with crash rates above state averages. The State Route 400 Express Lanes Corridor Project will expand the road, reduce traffic delays, and minimize back-ups caused by large freight trucks. The total project cost will be funded through state government, federal government, and private company investments. The U.S. Department of Transportation awarded its $184 million investment through the Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program. ###
06.07.2018	06.07.18 Isakson, Perdue Statements on U.S. Marshal Nomination to Northern District of Georgia Coweta County Sheriff Michael Yeager to be nominated by president WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statements regarding President Trump’s announcement of his intent to nominate Michael S. Yeager of Moreland, Georgia, to fill the U.S. Marshal vacancy for the Northern District of Georgia. “Sheriff Yeager’s experience throughout so many facets of law enforcement demonstrates that he has the wisdom and expertise appropriate for a U.S. Marshal,” said Senator Isakson. “I look forward to working with Sheriff Yeager through his Senate confirmation process.” “Georgia is home to some of the most impressive law enforcement officers in the nation,” said Senator Perdue. “I applaud President Trump on nominating Sheriff Michael Yeager. He will serve our nation well and make Georgia proud.” Yeager has served as the sheriff of Coweta County, Georgia, since his election to the position in 1993. He has nearly four decades of law enforcement experience, beginning as a patrolman with the Newnan Police Department in 1980. Yeager is the current chairman of the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, serves on the Board of the Georgia Department of Community Supervision and serves as a member of the state’s Immigration Enforcement Review Board. He is an active member and past president of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association and a past president of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Youth Homes. Yeager currently serves as president of the Constitutional Officers Association of Georgia, which consists of all current sheriffs, probate judges, tax commissioners and superior/state court clerks of Georgia. In 2006, Yeager received both the Georgia Sheriff of the Year Award and the Governor’s Public Safety Award for Outstanding Contribution to Profession. The White House press release on today’s announcement is here. ###
06.06.2018	06.06.18 Isakson, Perdue, Scott Welcome Basing Announcement for Robins Air Force Base Embrace any and all new missions at Robins AFB, warn against potential capability gaps during transition WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and David Perdue (R-GA), along with U.S. Representative Austin Scott (GA-08), today responded to the U.S. Air Force’s announcement that it will locate a new battlefield management mission at Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia. Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson announced today that Robins Air Force Base will host the Advanced Battle Management System, a new global air space intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information mission. As the service transitions to this new mission, the Air Force will continue to fly the existing E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS), which is currently based out of Robins Air Force Base. “This decision by the U.S. Air Force underscores our ability to host critical strategic assets capable of impacting battlefields around the world,” said Senator Isakson. “We welcome any and all new missions that the Air Force is willing to bring to Robins, and I will continue to work with the Air Force as the implementation of this plan proceeds. In the meantime, I urge Secretary Wilson to work with us to ensure that there will be no capabilities gap that could put our warfighters at risk during the transition to this new system.” “Since 1941, Robins Air Force Base has played a key role in our nation’s combat readiness and national defense, and this decision ensures that role will continue for the next 50 years and beyond,” said Senator Perdue. “This additional new mission at Robins will be critical to fulfilling President Trump’s National Defense Strategy and provides for the new Advanced Battle Management System. Robins Air Force base is vital to our national defense and is a first-in-class facility with a skilled workforce. As Robins transitions to this new mission, I plan to continue working with the Air Force to make sure there are no extended capability gaps. I’m excited to see this take shape in my hometown.” “Secretary Wilson’s decision today further acknowledges the critical role Robins Air Force Base and Georgia play in our national security, and I welcome this basing decision to Middle Georgia,” said Representative Scott. “I look forward to continue working with the Air Force as we provide for today’s needs while also developing technology for tomorrow.” According to the Air Force, the Advanced Battle Management System will be a next-generation system-of-systems integrating battlefield surveillance information and providing commanders with better situational awareness in combat. The decision was made to house this new mission at Robins Air Force Base, which is currently home the E-8 JSTARS – an integral battle management command control and intelligence collection asset for the Air Force – to enable the Air Force to leverage key expertise in the base workforce and existing infrastructure to help expedite these assets for the battlefield. The air and space systems that will make up the Advanced Battle Management System will include a command center and associated supporting activities. The new network will also include some remotely piloted aircraft based out of Robins Air Force Base with sensor capabilities to collect and transmit information for the battlefield. The Air Force announced it would continue to fly the existing JSTARS fleet into the mid-to-late 2020s. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.06.2018	06.06.18 Senator David Perdue Visits Southeast Asia To Talk Trade & National Security “A realignment is not necessarily mandatory for rebalancing trade” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, last week traveled to Japan, Taiwan, and Singapore to meet with international leaders about foreign policy and national security. Senator Perdue participated in an event at the Shangri-La Dialogues in Singapore where he spoke about America’s international relationships and his business experience in the Southeast Asia region. Earlier this year, Senator Perdue also visited China, South Korea, and the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) to meet with senior leadership. Click here to view photos. Highlights: Major Player: “I used to live in Singapore and Hong Kong, and worked around this region throughout my career. I’ve watched it develop, and since 1965, the world has reduced global poverty by 60 percent, in part by protecting the region’s shipping lanes. The United States was a major player in that, and we want to continue to be a major player in that.” Leveling The Playing Field: “Some of the things you see President Trump talking about now, like leveling the playing field, is a manifestation of the last 50 years of trade policies in the United States. We partnered with countries in the region, like Singapore to help them develop. That was in our best interest, and it was in the best interest of the area.” Strong Military: “America has a strong military. We don’t apologize for that. Our military was one of the ways that we brought hundreds of millions of people in this region out of poverty. It allowed us to have free trade and safe shipping lanes which supported the global trade we are talking about.” Protecting American Interests: “There are hundreds of millions who are joining the middle class in China, and we think that’s a good thing. When it comes to what this means for our trade and consumers in the United States, President Trump has drawn a line and said, ‘it’s time to take care of our people as well.’ That doesn’t mean that we will have a closed door.” Hopeful For Peace: “We are hopeful peace can reign in the world. We have unanimous consensus across an entire reach of allies that support the self-determination of the human race. In America, we support self-determination around the world and have since our independence in 1789.” China’s Growing Economy: “We are reminded though that in 1789, when our country started its first Congress, the largest economy in the world was China. With 1.3 billion people today, they are going to continue to grow. India is growing. It’s a very dynamic part of the world, and we are glad to be a part of that. We commit to these leaders to our continued support of the region.” Rebalancing Trade: “Today, some of our allies are economically aligning in different ways around the world, yet they still look to us for security. I understand that, but at some point – and this is what President Trump is trying to say – a realignment is not necessarily mandatory for rebalancing trade. What he’s asking for is a level playing field with the rest of the world. That’s a trade issue, but it’s also applies to other issues as well.”
06.06.2018	06.06.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Updated Senate Calendar On Fox News “This is not about canceling August recess. It’s about doing our job and getting our work done.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Brian Kilmeade on Fox News Channel’s Fox and Friends about Majority Leader McConnell’s decision to change the U.S. Senate calendar in order to make progress on key items. Last month, Senator Perdue and 15 other senators urged Leader McConnell to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and nominees and offered to work nights, weekends, and through the August state work period if necessary to get it done. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Doing Our Job: “This is not about canceling August recess. It’s about doing our job and getting our work done. We’ve got to fund the federal government before September 30.” Similar Effort: “Last year, we did the same thing. The Democrats released 77 nominations in one day. Prior to that, only 44 nominees had been confirmed all year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.05.2018	06.05.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Updated Senate Calendar WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds Majority Leader McConnell for changing the U.S. Senate calendar in order to make progress on key items: “Senate Republicans have accomplished a great deal this year, but more needs to be done. That’s why it is encouraging that Leader McConnell took our concerns into consideration. We still have 271 nominations to confirm, and we must complete the appropriations process before the end of the fiscal year on September 30. President Trump was clear when he said he will not sign another last-minute omnibus spending bill again. We should not go home until we have completed our work. It is important to remember that simply canceling the August state work period is not the goal. We should be working nights and weekends now to get the results the American people sent us here to deliver.” Senator Perdue is leading a push, along with 15 other U.S. Senators, to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and nominees in order to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Thursday, May 10, 2018. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.04.2018	06.04.18 Senator David Perdue Recognizes President Trump’s First 500 Days WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recognizes President Donald Trump’s successful first 500 days in office: “President Trump’s first 500 days will be defined by promises made and promises kept. He is listening to the American people and moving at a business pace, not a bureaucratic pace. When the President took office, he made it clear that job one was growing the economy. To do that, he worked with Congress to focus on three things: reducing onerous regulations, unlocking our energy potential, and changing our tax system. As a result, consumer confidence is at a 17-year high, CEO confidence is at a 20-year high, and we have created nearly three million new jobs. “President Trump has confirmed the most circuit court judges of any President in their first year, and conservative Neil Gorsuch was confirmed to the Supreme Court. We have a president who is reinvesting in our military and working to clean up the VA for our nation’s heroes. Last month, the President followed through on his promise to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. We are strengthening relationships with our international allies and holding rogue regimes accountable. President Trump continues to put the American people first and work to create a level playing field.” President Trump’s First Year of Accomplishments: Nearly three million new jobs created 870 rules and regulations eliminated 1,500 bureaucrats fired at the VA for poor performance 300 underperforming bureaucrats fired at the Department of Education Consumer confidence is at 17-year high CEO confidence is at 20-year high Neil Gorsuch confirmed to Supreme Court Confirmed the most circuit court judges of any President in their first year Lowest unemployment rate since 1969 Lowest African American unemployment rate on record More NATO countries paying their fair share on defense Reinvested in our military with a strategy-driven budget Improved South Korea Free Trade Agreement Repealed the Obamacare Individual Mandate ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.01.2018	06.01.18 Over Chili Dogs & Frosted Oranges, Senator David Perdue Talks Breaking Through Washington Gridlock ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) sat down with 11Alive News’ Vinnie Politan at The Varsity to discuss breaking through Washington gridlock, the debt crisis, and career politicians. Click here or on the image below to watch. Highlights: Gaining Perspective: “My dad gave me some advice as a teenager. He said I don’t care whether you are conservative or liberal, but read and learn what the other side is saying. It will challenge your thoughts and make you understand their perspective. That’s what has been lost in Washington.” Putting Self-Interests Aside: “It’s going to take leadership in Washington to say let’s put political self-interests aside and get something done for the American people on Social Security, Medicare, or this debt. These are republic-threatening topics.” 80% Solution: “We’ve taken our republic for granted. If people realized the jeopardy we’re in, they’d want to do something outside the box to solve this crisis. That may mean accepting an 80% solution. You’re never going to get 100% of what you want.” Perfect Example: “With this banking bill, both Democrats and Republicans realized that Dodd-Frank had hurt lending mechanisms in small towns. Small town banks opted out of the home mortgage business, and they’ll go back in now that we’ve reversed these regulations. This bill was supported by 17 Democrats and is a model for breaking through all the gridlock and actually getting things done.” Career Politicians: “Washington has gotten distracted by the noise of the national media debate and about the election process. The career politician really did not exist until the second half of last century, honestly. But now we’ve got people who see this as their career and I just think that’s wrong, personally.” $1 Million Per Household: “We’ve got $21 trillion in debt and $130 trillion in future unfunded liabilities. That amounts to about $1 million of debt for every household in America. That’s what politicians have done over the last 50 years.” Past The Tipping Point: “My mission is to call out this debt crisis. In 2000, we had $6 trillion in debt. Under Bush, Washington added $4 trillion, and under Obama, Washington added $10 trillion. Right now, if we don’t change something, Washington is on track to add another $10 trillion to the debt over the next 10 years. That cannot happen. The world won’t let that happen.” Competing Globally: “We’ve been trying for 19 years to deepen the port in Savannah five feet. In the meantime, China built one of their largest ports in less than three years. What we’ve got to realize is this is a competitive world now. We can no longer assume our position. We’ve reengaged with the world, it’s working, and we’ve got to put our self-interests aside in order to become competitive again.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Senator David Perdue Requests Confidential Briefing On CFPB Server Hacks Nearly 1,000 security breaches went unreported by previous CFPB Director WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, is requesting a confidential briefing from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Mick Mulvaney about hundreds of security hacks into the agency’s servers, which store millions of records on consumer financial data. “Because your predecessor failed to report security breaches and stymied Congress’ attempts to understand more about the CFPB’s data collection process, little is known about the CFPB’s consumer data operation,” said Senator Perdue. “In your testimony, you said you didn’t realize the agency was storing consumer data in third party servers until you took over as the acting director, and that you have discovered 240 ‘lapses’ and nearly 800 potential ‘lapses.’” “We both agree that Americans should know more about data the government is collecting on them, especially if this information has been hacked. I understand this information is too sensitive to discuss in a public setting, therefore, I request you brief Congress in a confidential setting about these security breaches, data collection, and data security,” Perdue said in his request. This request for a confidential briefing is a continuation of Senator Perdue’s CFPB oversight efforts to shine light on this overreaching agency. Senator Perdue has: Introduced a budget amendment to rein in the CFPB. Introduced legislation to make the CFPB accountable to the American people. Introduced legislation to prevent the CFPB from implementing the Prepaid Card Rule. Introduced the CFPB Accountability Act of 2017. Outlined the need for Congressional oversight of the CFPB. Published an op-ed in Forbes on why the Prepaid Card Rule is bad for consumers. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Senator David Perdue Secures Dozens Of Georgia Priorities In Annual Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds the Senate Armed Services Committee for unanimously passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. Senator Perdue secured more than 30 provisions of importance to Georgia in the annual defense bill, which now awaits consideration by the full U.S. Senate. “The world is more dangerous today than any time in my lifetime. We face complex threats from North Korea, Iran, Russia, and China, and our women and men in uniform need our full support to counter these threats around the globe,” said Senator Perdue. “Last year, we reinvested in our military to align funds with strategy and threats. This was a step in the right direction, but our armed forces need more resources to rebuild from the previous administration’s disinvestment. President Trump is committed to our troops and a healthy national defense. This defense bill is key to seeing this mission through. Georgia’s military community plays a key role in protecting our homeland, and this bill provides our bases with the tools they need to modernize our forces and prioritize readiness.” Senator Perdue’s provisions address a range of issues from safeguarding U.S. military technology and fleet readiness to improved base conditions and medical care for service members. Here are some highlights: Strengthens Readiness: Provides more flexibility for bases and installations to quickly improve their infrastructure and recognizes the importance of our service members and federal workers who ensure the readiness of our military personnel and equipment. Incentivizes STEM Hiring: Directs the Department of Defense to develop competitive strategies to recruit, hire, and retain America’s best and brightest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Infrastructure and Base Revitalization: Addresses the necessity to improve infrastructure and ensure the long term sustainment of all of our Georgia bases in order to provide better working conditions for our service members and civilian workforce, while continuing to make major contributions to our national defense. Protects JSTARS Readiness: Prohibits the retirement of any aircraft in the JSTARS fleet and secures funding for critical upgrades to enhance the operability and service life of aircraft. Funding for Guard personnel is also restored. Promotes Military Spouse Employment: Multiple provisions address issues with low rates of military spouse employment and provide better access to beneficial programs that will help military spouses navigate the challenges of military life while supporting their families and their service members. Establishes Cyber Institutes: Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish Cyber Institutes at colleges and universities with Reserve Officers’ Training Corps across the country, with a preference for Senior Military Colleges, to help ensure a robust cyber pipeline for Active Duty, Guard, and Reservists. Secures Critical Technologies: Protects critical technologies necessary for national security from falling into the hands of our global competitors and requires further investigation into industrial espionage and cyber theft conducted by China. Supports Georgia Industries: Ensures funding for a wide range of military equipment that is produced by businesses across the state of Georgia. Military Travel: Repeals a damaging cut to the per diem of our service members and federal employees conducting official long term travel that has been negatively impacting those individuals and the businesses and communities serving them. Condemns Illegal Activity: Condemns Russian actions that undermine America’s national security interests and the sovereignty of Georgia and Ukraine. Bolsters Submarine Base: Funds the continued development and procurement of the Columbia-class submarine to be stationed at King’s Bay while also increasing support for the submarine industrial base and supply chain. Repeals Compass Call Requirement: Repeals a burdensome requirement from the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act that has caused work stoppages and impacted Georgian workers. Improves Base Resiliency: Commends the Marine Corps on using the challenges posed by the 2017 tornados to conduct a Base of the Future symposium. This will facilitate collaboration with local communities, industry, government, and academia in order to improve the resiliency of military installations. Enhances Medical Care For Service Members: Secures funding for important medical research, development, and pilot programs that will enhance the care given to our service members at home and abroad. Tackles Security Clearance Backlog: Requires DoD to report on how the agency will assume all background investigation responsibilities for the federal government, as well as the plan to eliminate the current backlog. DoD Audit: Continues to provide crucial oversight of the DoD financial audit to ensure the transparent, accountable, and best use of taxpayer dollars that fund our national defense. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Senator David Perdue Joins President Trump For Signing Of Dodd-Frank Rollback WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, joins President Trump at the White House for the signing of the bipartisan Dodd-Frank rollback bill, which provides regulatory relief for Georgia’s community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, and regional banks. “I was proud to join President Trump at the White House today and be part of this significant regulatory rollback,” said Senator Perdue. “Relief from Dodd-Frank is a long overdue win for small businesses in Georgia and across America. For the past eight years, community and regional banks – that had nothing to do with the 2008-2009 financial crisis – have suffocated under Dodd-Frank’s onerous, one-size-fits-all regulations. After a decade of stagnant growth, as much as $2 trillion will be freed up on the balance sheets of American banks. Local businesses and homeowners will have greater access to capital because of this bill. This major bipartisan action will continue President Trump’s historic regulatory rollback and build on his effective economic agenda.” Senator Perdue secured the following provisions in the regulatory rollback plan President Trump signed into law today: Increased Access To Mortgages: Exempts community banks and credit unions that keep mortgages on their own books from the CFPB’s qualified mortgage rule, which will help restart mortgage lending in small town America. New Threshold For Regional Banks: Raises the systemically important financial institutions (SIFI) threshold from $50 billion to $250 billion so regional banks are no longer subjected to the same regulations and reporting requirements as the largest banks in the world. Improved Consumer Credit Protections: Increases access to credit monitoring services for veterans and elderly, and streamlines credit protection standards so consumers have the ability to freeze their credit easily. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Senator David Perdue Congratulates Georgian Randy Evans On Confirmation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) congratulates Randy Evans, of Atlanta, on being confirmed as the U.S. Ambassador to Luxembourg: “As a lifelong Georgian, Randy Evans has served his state and country with distinction in both the public and private sectors. He understands the complex issues the United States faces across the globe and is committed to maintaining strong relationships with our European allies. I’m excited that finally today the Senate voted to confirm President Trump’s excellent choice of Randy Evans for this post, and I know our country will be represented by our nation’s very best in Luxembourg.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Senator David Perdue Talks North Korea Latest On Bloomberg TV “North Korea needs to see a strong message from President Trump, and he did that today.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, speaks with Kevin Cirilli on Bloomberg TV about the cancelled summit with North Korea. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Sending A Strong Message: “Given the rhetoric of the last few days, I think North Korea needs to see a strong message from President Trump, and he did that today.” Total Denuclearization: “We want to have this open dialogue with North Korea and to move toward the objectives President Trump has laid out. That’s the total denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, as well as a potential peace treaty and reunification talks down the road.” South African Model: “We want this process to move toward more of a South African model. That’s the vision President Trump has for North Korea. If we can ever get into these top-level conversations, we can move the ball forward.” Dealing With Crises: “Leaders around the world want America to step in, reengage, and be a leader as we deal with these crises around the world. I give the President high marks for reengaging. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2018	05.23.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Plan To Improve Veterans Choice Program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, comments on expanding private health care options for veterans: “Our veterans and their families have sacrificed so much for our country, and they deserve the benefits they were promised. If the federal government cannot provide our veterans access to timely and quality care, then something has got to change. That’s exactly what this plan does by improving the system that delivers health care to our veterans. Senator Isakson deserves a great deal of credit for his work on this plan that will make life a little easier for our nation’s heroes. President Trump also deserves a great deal of credit for his work to clean up the VA and fire over 1550 people for poor performance. While there’s more to do, we cannot ignore the fact that we are past the tipping point in this debt crisis. Most of our discretionary spending is borrowed money, including funding for our defense, veterans, and domestic programs. If Congress doesn’t deal with this debt crisis, we’ll lose the ability to do the right thing and fund important plans like this one.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2018	05.23.18 Senator David Perdue Introduces Atlanta-Based U.S. Circuit Judge Nominee In Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced Georgia Supreme Court Justice Britt Grant, President Trump’s nominee to serve on the Atlanta-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, in her confirmation hearing before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. Click here to watch, and click here to download photos. Transcript: “I’m happy to be here today to introduce a very impressive and highly-qualified Georgian who has been nominated by President Trump for a seat on the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Justice Britt Grant has enjoyed a distinguished legal career and has served the people of Georgia with distinction as a Justice on the Supreme Court of Georgia since January 2017. After graduating from Stanford Law School, she served as a law clerk to Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit. “She then went on to practice law at Kirkland & Ellis in Washington where she represented clients in commercial litigation before state courts, federal district courts, federal circuit courts and the United States Supreme Court in matters including products liability, antitrust, class-action defense, contracts, defamation, multi-district litigation, and constitutional law. She then returned home to Georgia in 2012 and began working as Counsel for Legal Policy in the Georgia Attorney General’s office. She then served as Solicitor General for the State of Georgia from 2015 until her appointment to the Georgia Supreme Court in January 2017. “During her time on the Georgia Supreme Court, Justice Grant has written over 40 opinions on both criminal and civil matters, and participated in hundreds of other opinions. Just last night, she was elected to her seat on the court without opposition. This is a testament to the quality of her work and how the people of Georgia feel about her. Again, it is one of my highest honors to be here today to present Justice Grant’s nomination and commend her nomination to this committee with my highest recommendation.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2018	05.23.18 Georgia Banks & Industry Groups Applaud Dodd-Frank Rollback WASHINGTON, D.C. – Georgia-based community banks, regional banks, and industry groups are applauding the significant rollback of Dodd-Frank Act regulations. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) helped craft the bipartisan rollback plan, which included three of his provisions. The rollback plan now heads to President Trump’s desk to become law. American Bankers Association: “We appreciate Senator Perdue’s strong leadership on the Senate Banking Committee and his determination to deliver much needed regulatory relief to Georgia’s banks so they can better serve their customers and communities and grow the economy. As an original co-sponsor of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, Senator Perdue played a key role in getting this legislation across the finish line, and his support for mortgage lending changes in particular will mean more creditworthy Georgians will the chance to buy a home.” – Rob Nichols, President and CEO, American Bankers Association American Pride Bank: “Increased regulations on community banks have made it harder for us to offer some of the basic products our customers expect from a bank. I’m glad to say we’re taking a serious look at finally being able to get in the mortgage business because of the adjustments we’re seeing through this bill. I’m hopeful the President will sign the bill into law soon, and want to thank Senator Perdue for his support of this regulatory relief legislation that truly helps our consumers, our businesses, and our economic vitality.” – John Hall, President and CEO, American Pride Bank in Macon Carver State Bank: “I want to thank Senator Perdue for leading on this bill and for working with not just members of his own party, but also with Democrats to get relief for smaller banks. Carver State Bank is a 91-year-old black-owned community bank in Savannah, Georgia. Our mission is to provide access to capital to those members of our community who have traditionally been denied access to the financial system. In spite of our small size, we have a huge impact on the community we serve in southeastern Georgia. This bill will allow us to make sure we have access to liquidity, which then allows us to provide the small business loans, affordable housing development loans, community facility loans, and consumer loans that are critical to the community we serve.” – Robert James, II, Director of Strategic Initiatives, Carver State Bank in Savannah Century Bank and Trust: “Senator Perdue has always been a great friend of community banking. He knows and appreciates that community banks make more than half of small business loans to entrepreneurs in Georgia and throughout the nation – providing the capital these local businesses need to grow and prosper. Community bankers greatly appreciate Senator Perdue’s tremendous help with this much needed regulatory relief legislation, which will benefit our local communities. His support from the Senate Banking Committee, to helping us get traction in the House for a vote, demonstrates his commitment to Main Street communities.” – Derek Williams, President and CEO, Century Bank and Trust in Milledgeville Citizens Trust Bank: “Thank you Senator Perdue for your leadership on the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. As a result of this bill, Citizens Trust Bank will be focused on growing our mortgage business. With the regulatory relief measures, we will revisit our business model which will enable our lean, yet mighty team to more efficiently process mortgages and thus build the communities we serve by ensuring that people can realize the American dream of home ownership. We thank Congress for meeting the current needs of the financial services industry while also protecting the interest of the consumers we serve.” – Cynthia Day, President and CEO, Citizens Trust Bank in Atlanta Community Bankers Association of Georgia: “On behalf of Georgia’s community banks, we are extremely excited about the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act and the common sense regulatory relief its passage will provide community banks. This legislation is a tremendous first step in allowing local banks to once again focus on customers and being the economic engines of their communities, as opposed to completing government red tape. We greatly appreciate Senator Perdue for co-sponsoring this bill, and thank and applaud all members of Georgia’s congressional delegation that voted in favor of this much-needed reform. This is a great win for small businesses in Georgia and across our nation.” – Rob Braswell, President and CEO, Community Bankers Association of Georgia Credit Union National Association: “CUNA, state credit union leagues, credit unions and credit union members all deserve a major round of applause for getting this historic bill through Congress and onto the president’s desk. From the moment a group of bipartisan Senators unveiled this bill, credit unions told them loud and clear that this is an essential piece of regulatory relief legislation that will improve access to mortgage lending, real estate loans and other products and services, while putting focus on senior abuse and cyberthreats. We thank that group of Senators, their colleagues who voted in favor of the bill, House leadership, and all the members of the House who supported the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. The bill’s opponents fought hard, but these credit union champions stayed strong and stuck to their guns leading into a tough election year, and they deserve our thanks.” – Jim Nussle, President and CEO, Credit Union National Association Georgia Bankers Association: “The winners today are the people and businesses in Georgia as this bill helps banks of all types in every corner of the state. It cuts paperwork and costs, makes well-underwritten mortgages easier to provide to more customers and adds consumer protections. And, while it recalibrates certain capital and other regulatory thresholds, key protections remain but they’re now tailored to more appropriately reflect the variety in size, complexity and overall risk posed by different banks. We appreciate Georgia’s Representatives who voted for the bill, and we applaud Senator Perdue for his leadership in securing rare bipartisan support for the bill as it originated in the U.S. Senate.” – Joe Brannen, President and CEO, Georgia Bankers Association Georgia Chamber of Commerce: “Community and regional banks play an integral role in the development of thriving and prosperous communities. These banks provide capital to local businesses who fill our main streets and grow our downtowns. Rolling back burdensome regulations is an important part of ensuring banks can help businesses of all sizes in communities across Georgia. We applaud Senator Perdue for his focus on this important issue.” – Chris Clark, President and CEO, Georgia Chamber of Commerce Georgia Credit Union Affiliates: “Georgia Credit Unions are extremely pleased that the House has passed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act and that regulatory relief is on the way for community-based financial institutions. We applaud all Georgia House members who voted for the legislation and especially thank Senator David Perdue for his early co-sponsorship of the bipartisan bill. This common-sense bill delivers on its promises and keeps important consumer protections in place while allowing community-based financial institutions – like credit unions – to do their job and improve the financial well-being of the working families they serve.” – Mike Mercer, President and CEO, Georgia Credit Union Affiliates Georgia Department of Banking and Finance: “The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, provides meaningful regulatory relief for community and regional banks and credit unions. As the regulator of state-chartered financial institutions, I have seen firsthand how post-crisis regulations, by imposing a one size fits all approach, has restricted these financial institutions from providing services and products to their local customers with no apparent safety and soundness benefit. I applaud Senator Perdue and Congress for enacting this bipartisan legislation to remove these extraneous burdens and let these institutions get back to banking their communities.” – Kevin Hagler, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Banking and Finance ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Congress Approves Major Dodd-Frank Rollback, Sending Plan To President’s Desk Three key provisions in rollback secured by Senator Perdue WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, praises this significant rollback of Dodd-Frank Act regulations, which will free up capital not at work in our economy today. The rollback plan now heads to President Trump’s desk to become law. “This regulatory relief is a long overdue win for small businesses in Georgia and across America,” said Senator Perdue. “For the past eight years, community and regional banks – that had nothing to do with the 2008-2009 financial crisis – have suffocated under Dodd-Frank’s onerous, one-size-fits-all regulations. After a decade of stagnant growth, as much as $2 trillion will be freed up on the balance sheets of American banks. Local businesses and homeowners will have greater access to capital because of this bill. This major bipartisan action will continue President Trump’s historic regulatory rollback and build on his effective economic agenda.” Prior to passing the House of Representatives 258-159, the rollback plan passed the Senate on March 14, 2018 with a bipartisan vote of 67-31. This bipartisan action provides major regulatory relief for Georgia’s community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, and regional banks. Senator Perdue worked to secure the following provisions: Increased Access To Mortgages: Exempts community banks and credit unions that keep mortgages on their own books from the CFPB’s qualified mortgage rule, which will help restart mortgage lending in small town America. New Threshold For Regional Banks: Raises the systemically important financial institutions (SIFI) threshold from $50 billion to $250 billion so regional banks are no longer subjected to the same regulations and reporting requirements as the largest banks in the world. Improved Consumer Credit Protections: Increases access to credit monitoring services for veterans and elderly, and streamlines credit protection standards so consumers have the ability to freeze their credit easily. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.21.2018	05.21.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade & Dodd-Frank Relief On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria about ongoing trade negotiations with China, the Senate’s Dodd-Frank relief bill, and his push in Congress to avoid last-minute funding battles. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Level Playing Field: “President Trump wants to create a level playing field with the rest of the world. He worked with NATO on military spending, and he’s working on NAFTA. We have a revised Free Trade Agreement with South Korea. This is a long pull with China. I’ve got some experience in China, and this is not going to happen overnight.” Standing Up For America On Trade: “The United States is finally standing up for the rights of American workers and businesses. I give the Trump Administration kudos. We are working very hard, and I think we’re going to get good results.” Exactly The Opposite: “Dodd-Frank did exactly the opposite of what these bureaucrats thought it would do.” $2 Trillion: “Sixteen Democrats voted with us to pass the Dodd-Frank relief bill in the Senate. The House is going to vote on it tomorrow. This bill lowers the cost of compliance for small and regional banks that had nothing to do with the 2008-2009 debacle and will free up $2 trillion not at work in our economy.” Debate Funding: “1996 was the last time the federal government was funded by Congress on time. Let’s go ahead and engage on the funding bills now, and stay here in August if we have to.” Combating Obstruction: “We’re facing a confirmation debacle. Two hundred eighty-four presidential nominees are waiting to be confirmed today. This is historic obstructionism. The only way to combat that is to stay here, keep the Senate open, run through these nominations, and get the government funded.” Getting Results: “We did the same thing last year. We volunteered to stay here if we needed to, and Leader McConnell decided to keep the Senate in session. Four days later the Democrats gave us 77 confirmations, which is more than we had done all year up to that point. We know where the soft spot is. We’re in control of the schedule, and we should use that.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Senator David Perdue: Gina Haspel Is Uniquely Qualified WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) votes to confirm Gina Haspel as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA): “Gina Haspel is uniquely qualified to lead the CIA and defend the American people. For more than three decades, she has committed her life and career to protecting America’s national security interests. She has also extensively studied the myriad of threats we face today from North Korea, Iran, Russia, and China. I reviewed classified background material on Gina Haspel’s career and am comfortable with her being confirmed to lead the CIA. The women and men of our intelligence community and the American people will be well served by a proven leader like Gina Haspel.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Senator David Perdue Applauds Trump Administration’s Action On Open Skies WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds the Trump Administration for taking action on the Open Skies agreement with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and ensuring a level playing field in the global aviation sector: “Our aviation sector is critical to American jobs and the economy. President Trump’s actions will help level the playing field, promote transparency, and allow for fair competition in the aviation industry. This is vital to the global success of domestic airlines and yet another way President Trump is standing up for American workers and businesses.” Last year, Senator Perdue published an op-ed in The Hill on the need for open and fair competition in the international aviation industry. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Senator David Perdue On Laura Ingraham Show: This Is Historic Obstructionism WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joins The Laura Ingraham Show to discuss his efforts to confirm President Trump’s nominees and avoid last-minute funding battles. Highlights: No More Omnibus Bills: “The last time we funded the government on time before the end of the fiscal year was 1996. We’ve only funded the government on time four times since the 1974 Budget Act passed. President Trump just wants Congress to do its job and fund the government. He doesn’t want another back-ended omnibus bill.” Two Options: “The first thing we can do is keep the Senate open and force the Democrats to run out the clock. Secondly, we could use the nuclear option and get it back to 51 votes. Quite frankly, if the Democrats don’t start behaving more responsibly, both options should be on the table.” Historic Obstruction: “These are not controversial nominees. Most of these nominees are all getting 70 and 80 votes. The Democrats are clear in what they are doing. This is unadulterated, historic obstructionism.” Whatever It Takes: “The 16 letter signees and other Senators are willing to stay here and do whatever we have to do to get these nominations confirmed. If we don’t get it done, that puts all recesses in play, including the August state work period. We have to get these nominations confirmed.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Senator David Perdue Talks North Korea Summit On CNN WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) speaks with Kate Bolduan on CNN’s At This Hour about the upcoming talks between the U.S. and North Korea. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Expected Posturing: “I was just in South Korea and China a few weeks ago talking to senior leadership. We never thought this negotiation with North Korea would be linear. You are going to have ups and downs, and Kim Jong-un is posturing. This is another indication that we need to continue steadfastly towards the goals here.” Biggest Objective: “We want an arrangement with North Korea to denuclearize, and that’s the biggest objective right now that we have going.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Honor Law Enforcement On National Police Week Pay tribute on Peace Officers Memorial Day to Georgia officers killed in line of duty WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on Peace Officers Memorial Day, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) joined their colleagues in cosponsoring a resolution that honors law enforcement officers in Georgia and across the country, and designates the week of May 13-19, 2018, as National Police Week. “It’s important to regularly thank those who defend our communities – especially those who do so voluntarily and often put themselves in harm’s way to protect us,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m proud to again honor our brave police officers with a National Police Week resolution and to offer my respects to the officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty and to their families.” “Georgia’s law enforcement officers serve at the forefront of our communities and put their lives on the line to keep Georgians safe,” said Senator Perdue. “Because of their bravery, countless lives are saved every day. I join all Georgians in saluting these courageous women and men and remembering those we’ve lost in the line of duty.” The resolution recognizes the 129 law enforcement officers across the United States killed in the line of duty in 2017, including six Georgians, and remembers more than 50 law enforcement officers who were killed since the beginning of 2018. The six Georgian law enforcement officers honored are: Curtis B. Billue of the Georgia Department of Corrections, Michael Christopher Butler of the Lowndes County Sheriff’s Office, Kristen Nicole Hearne of the Polk County Police Department, Gregory Michael Meagher of the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office, Christopher James Monica of the Georgia Department of Corrections, and James Martin Wallace of the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office. ###
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Senators Urge Action To Break Through Confirmation Backlog & Avoid Last-Minute Funding Battles WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) leads an event with U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) urging the Senate to confirm President Trump’s nominees and avoid last-minute funding battles, even if this requires working nights, weekends, and through the August state work period to get it done. Senator Perdue and 15 other U.S. Senators are asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and nominees in order to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. Click here to watch. Click here to download pictures. Highlights: U.S. Senator Perdue: “President Trump tweeted over the weekend that if we get to August and haven’t funded the government, then we need to stay here and get this done. He said a few weeks ago that he never wants to sign another bill like the omnibus again. I think that comment speaks for itself loud and clear. This is nothing more than an effort to make our government work again.” U.S. Senator Ernst: “Our constituents deserve better than this cycle of governing from crisis to crisis. If Congress hasn’t passed a budget and regular appropriations bills by August, we shouldn’t be able to go home. We should be working nights. We should be working weekends. We should be working through August, and any other state work period to pass these appropriations bills and get our nominations done in a timely manner…We have made a commitment to our constituents, and we need to see that through.” U.S. Senator Lee: “At the rate were going right now, some have said it would take a decade for this administration to be fully staffed. We have to be willing to stay for the weekends and not adjourn for the week, or for much longer periods of time... I think the American people can expect more, and they can expect much better.” U.S. Senator Cassidy: “We think we’ve been successful, but we can go from success to greater success…This will allow us more time to review [a spending bill] as opposed to it being dropped in our laps and saying we are voting tomorrow.” U.S. Senator Daines: “Congress is not getting the people’s business done and not getting it done on time. This is because great obstruction is going on right now in this Congress. It is time to move beyond that and finish the work that the people sent us here to do. It’s time to cancel the August recess, keep members here, get the spending bills passed, get President Trump’s nominees through the Senate, and work on behalf of the American people.” U.S. Senator Rounds: “We’re $20 trillion in debt. When we go home and ask people what they think about it, they want to know why we’re not doing our job…I want to thank Senator Perdue for taking the lead on this again this year, two years in a row. You see a lot of the same faces up here, but our team is growing in size and saying to leadership ‘we want to be a tool that you can use to push the issue of getting things done.’” U.S. Senator Sullivan: “By any measure, what’s going on with the Democrats is historic obstructionism… There’s another story here, and that’s the budget. The budget process is clearly broken. We want to build on the process and break the logjam on nominees. If we need more time to get the nominees done and get the budget done in the right way, which it hasn’t been done for decades, then we can create more time.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Push Ft. Stewart As Home To New Armored Brigade Combat Team WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (GA-01) are urging U.S. Army Secretary Mark Esper to consider Fort Stewart as home to the U.S. Army’s new 16th Armored Brigade Combat Team. “Fort Stewart is the premier power projection platform on the East Coast, and there is no place in the Army where it is less expensive for combat soldiers to live, train, and deploy. It maintains the largest base east of the Mississippi River with a digital, multi-purpose range complex with training land available for two brigade combat teams to conduct training maneuvers concurrently year-round,” wrote Isakson, Perdue, and Carter. “Fort Stewart is located within two hours of four major sea ports, and Hunter Army Airfield has the largest runway and aircraft parking capacity east of the Mississippi River. Additionally, coastal Georgia has little to no environmental impediments, a robust frequency spectrum, and large air corridors that can accommodate joint and combined training of any size or scope,” they continued. Isakson, Perdue, and Carter highlighted Fort Stewart’s existing capacity to receive the 16th Armored Brigade Combat Team and noted that locating it at Fort Stewart would provide a more strategic distribution of armor units around the country. Placing the 16th Armored Brigade Combat Team at Fort Stewart would bring nearly 4,000 soldiers and their families to coastal Georgia. View the full letter here. ###
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Senator David Perdue: Jerusalem Is Unquestionably Israel’s Capital WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the U.S. Embassy opening in Jerusalem, Israel on Monday: “Jerusalem is unquestionably Israel’s capital, and it’s past time the United States recognize that fact. I applaud President Trump for fulfilling yet another promise he made to the American people. After eight years of weak support from the Obama Administration, this president’s actions send a powerful message to the world – the United States stands shoulder to shoulder with Israel. Now, we have seen ten other countries follow President Trump’s lead and discuss moving their embassies to Jerusalem. On my first international trip as a U.S. Senator, I met with Prime Minister Netanyahu and personally expressed the United States’ strong support for our friend and ally Israel.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Debt & Budget Realities At Fiscal Summit WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, yesterday joined the Peterson Foundation’s Fiscal Summit: Debt Matters and spoke with Washington Post’s Erica Werner about the debt crisis, Congress’ broken budget process, tax cuts, and working with President Trump. Click here or click on the image below to watch. Highlights: On The Broken Budget Process: “The federal government’s budget process is so broken. We have to take a clean page approach. We’re supposed to pass 12 appropriations bills. In the last 44 years since the 1974 Budget Act we’ve averaged 2.5 appropriations bills per year. That’s ridiculous. We looked at countries’ and states’ best practices. Nobody budgets the way we try to do it in the federal government.” On The National Debt: “In just the last 18 years, we’ve added $15 trillion of debt. That is a formula for disaster. This year, we will spend $50 billion more on interest on the debt than we spent last year. We will spend more on interest on the debt in 2023 than we will spend on all of our military spending. Pretty soon we’ll be borrowing money to pay the interest on past debt. That’s a sign of bankruptcy if I ever saw one.” On Economic Growth Following Tax Cuts: “In my state of Georgia alone, Cox Enterprises, Aflac, Delta, Coca-Cola, Gulfstream, and many more have taken action following tax cuts. They’re not only adding jobs and paying bonuses. We’ve heard from thousands of companies that have announced year-end bonuses, pay increases, and so forth. More importantly, almost all of these companies are making long term commitments to retirement plans. These tax cuts will be the most stimulative action the federal government has taken in decades.” On President Trump’s Agenda: “As a business guy, President Trump’s instincts are right on target. He didn’t have to have a lot of conversations last year to figure out what we needed to do to get the economy going. The President knew, and it’s working.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Senators Push To Avoid Last-Minute Funding Battles “We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and 15 U.S. Senators including Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Roger Wicker (R-MS) are asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to expedite floor consideration on funding bills and President Trump’s nominees, even if the Senate must work nights, weekends, and through the August state work period to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August, well before the September 30 deadline,” said the senators. “We stand ready to work Mondays and Fridays, nights as well as weekends, to ensure the funding process is not used to jam the President with a bad spending deal. We, and the American people, expect Congress to work tirelessly to restore American greatness. The President has outlined an agenda that will unleash economic growth, strengthen our military, and rebuild our infrastructure. We play a critical role in advancing this agenda, so together let’s make Congress work again.” The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Thursday, May 10, 2018. View the full text of the letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.10.2018	05.10.18 Senator David Perdue Meets With New Fort Benning Commanding General COLUMBUS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after meeting last week with Major General Gary Brito, who was recently named Commanding General of the U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence and Fort Benning: To download a photo, click here or on the image below. “It was an honor to meet Major General Brito and welcome him back to Fort Benning and the Columbus region. Like thousands of our finest women and men, Major General Brito trained at Fort Benning and went on to serve our country with distinction. This year, we celebrate 100 years of excellence at Fort Benning, and I could not be more confident that the base, its soldiers, and their families will continue to thrive for years under Major General Brito’s leadership.” On April 26, 2018, Senators Perdue and Isakson (R-GA) introduced a Senate resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of Fort Benning. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.09.2018	05.09.18 Senator David Perdue Calls Out Complexities Within Current Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) calls out the complexities of Congress’ broken budget process during the second public hearing of the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Partisanship Not The Only Problem: “We’ve been trying pass a budget with ‘kumbaya’ for 44 years. It hasn’t worked. Congress has only funded the government on time 4 times in 44 years since the 1974 Budget Act. This is not something we’re going to tweak around the edges and all of the sudden eliminate partisanship and make this budget process work.” Jigsaw Puzzle: “The Senate has 16 authorizing committees and 12 appropriating committees, so it looks like a jigsaw puzzle and it’s counterproductive.” Combining Processes: “We looked at the best practices in other countries and states. Some countries have done away with a three-step process and combined their budget and authorizations processes. Until two years ago, Congress had not authorized the State Department in 15 years. Our authorizations process is a fraud.” Future of Budget Committee: “Senator Enzi, the Chairman of the Budget Committee, actually has said publicly that he would do away with the Budget Committee unless we make some substantial structural changes.” End Continuing Resolutions: “I want to echo what Senator Hirono has said every time she’s spoken in this committee, and that’s we have to have a goal of never passing another continuing resolution that leads to an omnibus bill.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.09.2018	05.09.18 ICYMI: Press Coverage Of Senator David Perdue’s Effort To Make Congress Work Again Offers Solutions To Speed Up Confirmations And Government Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) led an event with the White House and conservative leaders to address Congress’ current work pace on government funding and Senate Democrats’ historic obstruction to the nominee confirmation process. Here is some selected news coverage of the event: “First, all of these nominations are backed up because of obstructionism from the Democrats. Second, we have to finish the 12 funding bills we have to do by the end of the fiscal year. We have 12 working weeks, which usually only amounts to 42 working days, to get there. We’re offering leadership the opportunity to stay here nights, weekends, and through August break to get that work done. We just want Congress to work again. The way to make Congress work is to get funding bills done on-time and stop relying on continuing resolutions that really hamstring our military.” (Fox News: Senator David Perdue calls on Congress to delay the August recess to ‘make Congress work again’) “The White House hopes the Senate will get spending bills done and curtail the nominations backlog before the August recess, but it is backing a call to cut down the break if needed to overcome delays in confirming President Donald Trump’s nomination. Marc Short, the White House legislative affairs director, made that clear during an event on Capitol Hill Tuesday with conservative leaders, putting the onus on Democrats to move the process along… He was appearing at an event hosted by Sen David Perdue, a Georgia Republican who has been closely aligned with President Donald Trump, and also featuring former South Carolina GOP Sen. Jim DeMint.” (Roll Call: White House: No August Recess Until Appropriations, Nominations Done) “Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), White House legislative affairs director Marc Short and conservative outside groups joined forces on Tuesday to urge the Senate GOP leader to ramp up the chamber's work schedule….Perdue said GOP senators would separately submit a letter to McConnell this week urging him to keep the Senate in session in order to fund the government by the end of the 2018 fiscal year…In addition to delays in funding the government, Republicans have bristled over the slow pace of confirming Trump's nominations. According to White House data, Trump has sent 774 nominations to the Senate, with 459 being confirmed so far.” (The Hill: Conservatives, White House pressure McConnell for longer Senate work hours) “I want to make sure you’re all aware that Congress is dragging its feet again, and Senator David Perdue is heading up an initiative calling for Congress to work until they get the job done in terms of appropriations and confirmations. Congress has gotten in the habit of not completing approval of the 12 appropriations bills before the end of the fiscal year, September 30, and they normally take August off. Senator Perdue is saying, ‘Enough is enough.’” (The Herman Cain Show: Make Congress Work Again) “In a recent press conference on Capitol Hill, Senator David Perdue of Georgia, along with the help of the White House and some conservative activists, tackled the problem head on. Now, they’re asking Congress to make a simple, commonsense pledge – pass all twelve spending bills and fund the government on time this year or say goodbye to your month-long August recess.” (CRTV: Senator Perdue to Congress: Do Your Jobs or DON'T Go Home) “Perdue, joined by Marc Short, the White House director of legislative affairs, and conservative leaders, hit Senate Democrats for their ‘clear and abusive obstructionism’ in blocking nominees…Perdue added the Senate should pass a government funding package prior to the August recess to ensure President Trump is not put in the same spot he was in March when he begrudgingly signed the omnibus spending deal to avoid a partial government shutdown…Meanwhile, Short told reporters the White House is backing Perdue's push to cancel the August recess, particularly due to the nominations backlog.” (Washington Examiner: David Perdue renews push for Senate to work through August recess) “[Senator Perdue] said he wants to prevent the last-minute rush to pass spending bills and other important legislative items. He pointed to the massive $1.3 trillion funding bill earlier this year as evidence of what happens when there’s a rush to pass something. Mr. Perdue said he believes Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would be open to the idea of keeping the Senate in session into the recess since they have done it before… Mr. Perdue said he hopes a similar move will push Democrats to cooperate on some of Mr. Trump’s backlogged nominations waiting to be confirmed.” (Washington Times: Sen. David Perdue to ask Senate leaders to delay August recess to pass backlog confirmations) “Sen. David Perdue (R., Ga.) and other likeminded Republicans are trying to stop the cycle of Congress waiting until the end of the year to pass a massive spending bill full of hidden waste and to end Democrats' obstruction of Trump nominees. They want to stop Democrats from using delaying tactics on political appointments that most of them wind up supporting anyway, as well as try to speed up the Senate's appropriations process so the bills do not snowball into a massive omnibus measure that the president is forced to sign at the end of the year lest the government shut down.” (Washington Free Beacon: Conservatives to McConnell: Time to Force Issue on Nominees, Spending Bills) “The goal is to avoid the ‘last-minute disaster’ that has happened in the past few years, said Perdue, and the way to do that is to get those bills passed now. He said last year, senators did the same thing, and four days into the period ‘we got Democrats to agree to 77 confirmations. We think that will happen this year.’” (Newsmax: Sen. Perdue Calls on Lawmakers to Work Nights, Weekends) “Sen. David Perdue (R-GA) held a press conference Tuesday on Capitol Hill to announce an effort to get the Senate to craft, debate, and pass a spending bill and confirm President Donald Trump’s 271 outstanding nominations before the scheduled August recess — or stay in Washington until the work gets done… The ‘clear and abusive obstructionism’ has to stop, Perdue said.” (Breitbart: Conservatives Launch #MakeCongressWork Campaign: No More Omnibus or ‘Abusive Obstructionism’) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Senator Perdue & Conservative Leaders: Let’s Make Congress Work For The American People “We believe we have to get outside of the box to get the government funded before September 30th.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) leads an effort with White House Director of Legislative Affairs Marc Short, Tea Party Patriots Co-Founder Jenny Beth Martin, and Conservative Partnership Institute Chairman and former U.S. Senator Jim DeMint to expedite Congress’ current work pace on government funding and the confirmation process. Last year, Senator Perdue led his colleagues in an effort to delay the Senate’s scheduled August state work period so Congress could continue working on behalf of the American people. More of President Trump’s nominees were confirmed during those two weeks than had been confirmed all year. Click here to watch. Click here to download pictures. Highlights: Senator David Perdue: “This is a commitment. We are willing to do whatever is necessary to get these confirmations done and debate funding bills now. We have 12 weeks left. We have 12 funding bills. Over the last 44 years, Congress has only passed 2.5 funding bills a year on average. We have an uphill battle, and we believe we have to get outside of the box to get the government funded before September 30th.” Marc Short: “Our hope is that the Senate will actually get its work done before the August recess. We support Senator Perdue’s efforts and others in the conservative movement drawing attention to this so that we’re not faced with that position. If we reach August and we still have not completed appropriations work and have not confirmed our nominees, then of course, we’d like to see Congress stay here and continue to do its work. It’s not work for the Administration, it’s work for the American people.” Jenny Beth Martin: “Congress is not working, and the confirmations and appropriation processes are the most obvious examples. Because of obstructionism by Senate Democrats, President Trump has had fewer nominees confirmed at this point in his administration than his four predecessor presidents.” Former Senator Jim DeMint: “We have to break this cycle. I’ve never seen Americans more frustrated than they are now. We all know that if Congress goes home for the August break without passing the funding bills that the same thing is going to happen that just happened, and after the President signed the Omnibus bill just a couple months ago, he said ‘I will never sign a bill like this again.’” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Senator David Perdue: Iran Should Never Possess A Nuclear Weapon WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) on President Trump’s action to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “President Trump is right to take strong action against Iran. The goal should be that Iran never possess a nuclear weapon, period. Rather than punish Iran for its illicit behavior, President Obama’s weak agreement created a pathway for the rogue regime to develop a nuclear weapon due to its sunset clauses and inspection loopholes. In fact, this poorly-negotiated deal emboldened Iran to continue its ballistic missile program, support of terrorism, and aggression toward one of our closest allies, Israel. Earlier this year, I supported the President’s decision to decertify. It’s clearly time to hold Iran accountable for their dangerous behavior. President Trump is fully equipped to reengage with our allies across the globe, while putting America’s national security interests first.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Senator David Perdue on Fox News: It’s Time To Make Congress Work Again WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Steve Doocy on Fox News Channel’s Fox and Friends about his efforts to help expedite funding the federal government and confirming President Trump’s nominees. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Historic Obstruction: “First, all of these nominations are backed up because of obstructionism from the Democrats. Second, we have to finish the 12 funding bills we have to do by the end of the fiscal year. We have 12 working weeks, which usually only amounts to 42 working days, to get there. We’re offering leadership the opportunity to stay here nights, weekends, and through August break to get that work done.” 44 Years: “Over the last 44 years, Congress has only passed 2.5 appropriations bill per year. That’s the average. We’re supposed to pass 12. What we want to do is start working on these bills now to avoid the last-minute disaster we’ve seen over the last few years. The way to do that is to start talking, put amendments on the floor, and get these funding bills done now.” Offering Solutions: “Last year, we did the same thing. Several Republican Senators gave a letter to Leader McConnell, and he agreed with us that we needed to stay in August. Four days into that period, we got Democrats to agree to 77 confirmations. We think the same thing will happen this year. Even if it doesn’t, it gives us more time to put these funding bills on the floor, actually have some debate, put amendments on the floor, and get away from last-minute funding votes.” End Continuing Resolutions: “We just want Congress to work again. The way to make Congress work is to get funding bills done on-time and stop relying on continuing resolutions that really hamstring our military.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.04.2018	05.04.18 Senator Perdue & Congressman Ferguson Visit Aflac Employees COLUMBUS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Representative Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03) visit Aflac’s World Headquarters in Columbus, Georgia to meet with employees about recent changes to the federal tax code. In response to savings from federal tax cuts, Aflac announced a $250 million increase in the company’s overall U.S. investment, which included raising their 401(k) match for every employee. Click here to view photos. “It was great to see these changes to the tax code make it over the finish line, but it has been even better to see the positive impact they’re having on Georgia businesses and workers,” said Senator Perdue. “Each week companies like Aflac are announcing capital expenditure plans for the next few years, largely as a result of these tax cuts and regulatory rollbacks. During our visit with Aflac’s team, we heard about the positive impact the tax cuts are having on their bottom line and their personal budgets. This is great news, and it’s only the beginning. Thank you to the entire Aflac family for welcoming us today, and thank you for your commitment to improving our community and the lives of others.” “Since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been signed into law, I’ve heard from folks all over Georgia’s Third District who are seeing larger paychecks or able to invest in their businesses and communities because of the benefits of tax reform,” said Congressman Ferguson. “Aflac was one of the first companies in the Third District to pass on the benefits of tax reform to their employees, and I was thrilled to join Senator Perdue here today to talk about their success.” “The response from Aflac employees who have received a one-time $500 contribution and an ongoing increase in Aflac’s contribution to their 401(k) retirement program, as well as investments in training and overall investments in our business as a result of the recent tax reforms has been outstanding,” said Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos. “We are extremely pleased that the tax reforms have enabled us to add to our long-term commitment by sharing with our employees to help them build a better future for themselves and their families.” Employees talk about the positive impact Aflac’s 401(k) contribution increases are having on their retirement plans. James is the sales resolution manager and has been with Aflac for 18 years after retiring from the Navy. He is actively involved with Aflac’s philanthropy, raising thousands of dollars every year for the Beads of Courage program at the Aflac Cancer Center. “As soon as I heard about what Aflac was doing with the tax reform dollars, I immediately figured out what it will mean to me and my family in the long term. Because of the 401(k) contribution, the 401(k) company increase and the three policies that Aflac is now giving to all employees, I will be receiving new benefits valued at about $3,000 per year. By the time I retire the 401(k) contributions, at a 5% rate of return, should net me about $20K in additional retirement funds. Aflac didn’t have to do this, and it is awesome for me and my family.” Michael is the resource manager in the General Counsel’s office. He has four children ranging from nine years old to two years old. Michael and his wife, a nurse in Columbus, earn a good living, but having four children to raise, pay for college, weddings, and more means that every dollar counts. “I appreciate everything that Aflac and the tax reforms are doing for me and my family because it focuses on the long term, not just today. I know that I will be working form many more years, but just knowing that my retirement is secure enables me and my wife to focus on what really matters today, which is being the best parents we can be.” Tabatha is a customer service specialist. She is a single mother to her daughter who is four years old. “As a single mother personal finances are very important to me, so I am very happy that Aflac is using the tax reform money to help me prepare for retirement so I can focus more on raising my daughter. Since she has had some health issues in the past, the fact that Aflac is now providing us with the accident and hospital policies free of charge is great too, because I would not have been able to afford them otherwise.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.02.2018	05.02.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Savannah Plane Crash ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the Air National Guard plane crash in Savannah: “News of today’s plane crash in Savannah is devastating. There are no words for the victims’ families and our military community as they mourn the lives of their loved ones. Thank you to all of the first responders who were on the scene immediately. We can never forget the sacrifices our women and men in uniform make to provide for our national security.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.30.2018	04.30.18 Senator David Perdue Addresses Georgia County Commissioners In Savannah SAVANNAH, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday joined the Association County Commissioners of Georgia (ACCG) in Savannah, Georgia for their annual conference to discuss issues that matter to their communities, including the debt crisis, tax reform, regulatory rollbacks, and national security. Click here to download photos. Click here to download b-roll video. “Georgia is setting an example for how Washington should work,” said Senator Perdue. “With a balanced budget and low tax burdens, our state continues to be the best place to do business in the country. Much of that success is attributable to our county commissioners, who are the backbone of America. When there’s a problem in our communities, county commissioners come together and find solutions. That’s a message that we’re trying to take to Washington. Right now, America has an opportunity to get the economy going again, and it starts right here at the local level.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.29.2018	04.29.18 Senator David Perdue Comments on First-Quarter 2018 GDP Growth “President Trump’s Economic Agenda Is Working” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s analysis of 2018 first quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth: “GDP growth this first quarter under President Trump is significantly higher than the average of all first quarters of the past three presidents. President Trump’s economic agenda is working and setting the stage for very reasonable economic growth. Our country is past the tipping point in this debt crisis and economic growth like this is necessary to getting us out of this financial mess.”
04.29.2018	04.29.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Budget Realities On Larry Kudlow Show “No other enterprise in the world would survive with these kind of budget failures.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday joined Stephen Moore on The Larry Kudlow Show to discuss the realities of Congress’ failed budget process. Highlights: Ballooning Interest Payments: “This year the federal government will spend $50 billion more in interest because of the size of the debt. In five years, the government will pay more in interest on the debt than it does in defending our country.” 20 Shutdowns: “Congress in its infinite wisdom has used 180 continuing resolutions and shut the government down 20 times over the last 44 years. This is insanity. No other enterprise in the world would survive with these kind of budget failures.” Funding Shortfalls: “The government is short $800 billion this year. Not next year, this year. This shortfall is so big that Congress can’t produce a budget that balances in 10 years unless it makes significant changes to expenditures and revenue.” A Farce And Fraud: “For years, to theoretically show a balanced budget, the government has been delaying expenses and accelerating revenue, along with other tricks. It’s a farce and a fraud. If businesses in the real world did this, people would go to jail.” Time To Act Now: “We’ve got to fix this failed budget process and cut outrageous spending now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.27.2018	04.27.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Tax Cuts With Cox Communications Employees MACON, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visits Cox Communications in Macon, Georgia to tour the facility and meet with employees about recent changes to the federal tax code. In response to savings from federal tax cuts, Cox Enterprises gave bonuses of up to $2,000 for non-executive employees. Click here to download photos. “Changing the tax code was the single greatest thing we could do to unleash economic growth in Georgia and across the country,” said Senator Perdue. “Just last week on Tax Day, Cox Enterprises gave well-deserved employee bonuses. It was great to join some of those employees today in Macon to highlight the new opportunities for Georgia businesses to compete on the global stage. For five consecutive years, Georgia has been named the best state in which to do business. Without a doubt, the corporate tax cut is having a stimulative impact on our economy and will help us continue our record of great success.” “Thanks to the recent passage of the federal tax cuts, Cox was able to invest in infrastructure upgrades, and in our biggest resource, our employees,” said Bonnie Lopez-Crowe, market vice president for Cox Middle Georgia. “Cox provided each employee with over a year of service a Tax Day bonus, thanking them for their dedication and commitment to Cox and our customers. All of us at Cox Middle Georgia thank Senator Perdue for his visit today. We appreciate hearing his thoughts on the country, leadership, and his time in office.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.27.2018	04.27.18 Senator David Perdue Holds Farm Bill Round Table Discussion ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) holds a round table discussion about the 2018 Farm Bill at the University of Georgia’s College of Agriculture & Environmental Sciences in Tifton, Georgia. The discussion was moderated by Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black and attended by Georgia farmers and industry leaders. Click here to download photos. “Agriculture is Georgia’s largest economic driver and the lifeblood of our country. Growing up working on my family’s farm, I saw firsthand that agriculture is a way of life for many Georgians,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “It was great to have Commissioner Black in Tifton today as we heard directly from our farmers about their needs and the challenges they face. Georgia is shaping agriculture on a national scale so their input is central to developing a farm bill that will contribute to a safer, stronger, and more successful industry.” “We are appreciative of the leadership shown by Senator Perdue during this Farm Bill and feel confident that our farmer’s voices will be heard in Washington thanks to outreach efforts such as today’s listening session,” said Commissioner Black. “As trade remains a leading concern for the agricultural sector, I know it is also on the top of the Senator’s mind as he continues to fight for fair access for our producers across the globe.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Recognize 100 Years Of Excellence At Ft. Benning Introduce Senate Resolution Commemorating Benning Centennial WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today introduced a Senate resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of Fort Benning. “Fort Benning’s history in Georgia and the role it has played in our national security has been nearly immeasurable, and the role of the men and women who have trained or served at Fort Benning cannot be overstated,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “This Centennial resolution acknowledges the incredible impact of this installation and the brave service members who have passed through it or called it home. It sits apart on the world stage, and I’m so proud to support Fort Benning in every way I can.” “Congratulations to the entire Fort Benning family on this significant milestone,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “For 100 years, Fort Benning has not only been a critical asset to Georgia, but also to the United States Army and our national defense. Each year, thousands of our bravest and finest young people matriculate from Fort Benning and go on to serve our country. From being home to the Maneuver Center of Excellence, to receiving the Army’s first Security Force Assistance Brigade, to its work on advanced maneuver robotics, Benning truly is leading the way.” On April 4, 1917, the day after President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress for a declaration of war against Germany, the citizens of Columbus began advocating for an army camp to be constructed in the area. Shortly thereafter, on October 19, 1918, Fort Benning was established as Camp Benning to train and equip soldiers during World War I. Today, Fort Benning supports more than 200,000 military, civilian, retiree, and reserve personnel, including thousands of troops attending its basic, infantry, and ranger training schools. Fort Benning is currently home to the Maneuver Center of Excellence and recently received the Army’s first Security Force Assistance Brigade and the Military Advisor Training Academy, where soldiers will train to perform the Security Force Assistance mission. Fort Benning’s Centennial celebration commenced in October 2017 and will conclude with a culmination event following its 100 year anniversary on October 19, 2018. Read the full text of the resolution here. ###
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Senate Confirmation of Two U.S. Marshals Bittick, Lyons confirmed to Middle, Southern District offices WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Senate confirmation of two longtime law enforcement officers to fill two U.S. Marshal vacancies in Georgia. John Cary Bittick of Forsyth, GA, was confirmed as U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia and David L. Lyons of Savannah, GA, was confirmed as U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia. Bittick is the sheriff of Monroe County, GA. He has more than four decades of law enforcement experience coupled with 22 years of experience as a board member and past president of the National Sheriff’s Association. Lyons recently retired as chief of police for Garden City, GA. He has more than four decades of law enforcement experience and served as a military police commissioned officer. Lyons was named Police Chief of the Year by the Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police in 2016. “Sheriff Bittick and Chief Lyons are dedicated law enforcement professionals who will bring decades of experience to their new roles as U.S. Marshals,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m thrilled that they have been confirmed and will be able to get straight to work.” “Sheriff Bittick and Chief Lyons have spent their careers protecting and helping others,” said Senator Perdue. “They are both impressive law enforcement officials and will serve our country well as U.S. Marshals. Congratulations to Sheriff Bittick and Chief Lyons on being confirmed to serve our country in this important role.” Bittick and Lyons were nominated by President Trump on Feb. 27, 2018. The White House press release on the announcement can be found here. ###
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Senator David Perdue: Mike Pompeo Will Make Our Country Proud WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm Mike Pompeo as President Donald J. Trump's Secretary of State: “Mike Pompeo is highly qualified and will make our country proud as Secretary of State. Through years of service to our country, he has gained a deep understanding of the complex threats we face across the globe. President Trump is coming up on a critical meeting with North Korea and will need top-notch counsel as he tackles the challenges presented by ISIS, Iran, and our multifaceted relationships with China and Russia. Mike Pompeo is the right man for the job. President Trump and the American people will be well-served with him as our chief diplomat.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Senator David Perdue: Speed Up The Confirmation Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate Rules and Administration Committee yesterday took action to speed up debate time on executive and judicial nominees. U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senator James Lankford (R-OK) in supporting this effort to eliminate the gridlock stalling confirmations. “For the last year, Democrats have done all they can to draw out the nominations process in order to delay the Senate from working on real issues. At this rate, President Trump will never have a full team in place. These delays are petty, and the American people have had enough. The Senate should be focused on tackling this debt crisis, fixing Congress’ broken budget process, and funding the government before the September 30 deadline. “Last August, we pushed to have the Senate stay in session longer and more nominees were confirmed during those two weeks than had been confirmed all year. The United States Senate should start working around the clock to get through as many confirmations as possible and change the existing rules on confirming nominees. James Lankford has a plan in the Senate to cut the 30 hours of debate on most nominees to 8 hours. I support this plan. Every single Democrat in the Senate today, who was also here in 2013, supported this plan and they should again now. This will speed up the confirmation process and allow us to focus on the results the American people sent us here to deliver.” Background The Trump Administration has fewer nominations confirmed than the last four administrations at this point. Senate Democrats have forced three times as many cloture votes on President Trump’s nominees than the last four presidents combined. 66 of the Trump Administration’s nominees were returned at the end of 2017, compared to just five in former President Obama’s first year. On average, it takes 85 days for one of President Trump’s nominees to be confirmed. As of today, there are currently 139 executive, 57 district court, and 10 circuit court nominations pending. For the last year, Senator Perdue has fought to end this historic obstruction. He and nine other senators pushed to cancel the August recess and turn the Senate on 24/7. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.24.2018	04.24.18 Senator David Perdue: Mike Pompeo Is The Right Person For The Job WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) meets with President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo: Click here to download photos. “Mike Pompeo is immensely qualified to serve as America’s chief diplomat. He has already earned President Trump’s confidence, and as CIA Director, he understands the multifaceted global security crisis better than anybody. He is fully prepared to keep up President Trump’s campaign of maximum pressure on North Korea and has a deep understanding of our complex relationships with Russia and China. He’s ready to help the President tackle the future of the Iran nuclear deal and the challenges presented by ISIS and other extremist organizations. Without question, Mike Pompeo is the right person for the job and should be immediately confirmed as our next Secretary of State.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.23.2018	04.23.18 Senator David Perdue: No One Wants North Korea To Have Nuclear Capabilities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined The Larry Kudlow Show to discuss how President Trump’s policy is bringing North Korea to the negotiating table. Highlights: Clear Message: “The message is becoming clear to Kim Jong-un that he's been isolated by sanctions and no one in the modern world wants North Korea to have a nuclear capabilities." Diplomacy First: "Secretary Mattis said it best when he said we are going to exhaust every diplomatic effort before we result to anything militarily, but we are going to protect the United States." Cautiously Optimistic: "Our sanctions are working. I'm cautiously optimistic that we have things moving toward a peaceful resolution, which is what we all want." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.20.2018	04.20.18 Senator David Perdue: We Need All Hands On Deck “This debt cannot be solved with a partisan solution.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) urges the U.S. Senate to tackle the national debt crisis and Congress’ broken budget process. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: All Hands On Deck: “In business, if you get into a crisis like this, it’s all hands on deck because it’s about survival. I would argue it’s about time for that in Congress.” Past The Tipping Point: “The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) just last week came out with their new forecast for fiscal year 2018 and beyond. There are some dramatic revelations in there. At $21 trillion we are already well-past the tipping point of this crisis.” Questionable Forecasts: “When the CBO and Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) forecast, they don’t do a very good job of forecasting revenue. For example, they take very little account of foreign direct investment. They underestimate the change in the repatriation tax law that we just made, and I believe the revenue forecast is out-of-line. However, I do agree with their forecast of expenses, and there is much to learn there if we’ll pay attention.” America’s Defense: “In just the next five years, in 2023, the interest on this debt alone will be greater than the amount of money we spend on the defense of this country—and that assumes a very low forecast for interest rates.” No One Solution: “In 2000, the size of our government was $2.4 trillion. The size of our government in 2016, the last year of President Obama, was $4 trillion. We went from $2.4 trillion to $4 trillion in that 16-year period of time. One Republican and one Democratic president. This is what we face. There is no one solution to this debt crisis. You can’t tax enough. You can’t grow enough. You can’t cut enough.” Out Of Business: “Washington is supposed to pass 12 appropriations bills a year, and it’s averaged two and a half per year over the last 44 years. In any business, enterprise, medical office—it doesn’t matter—if you were charged to do 12 items and you only did two and a half, you would fix something. You’d have to fix it or you’d be out of business.” Washington Gridlock: “What drives this town is the next election cycle. In the House, it’s two years. Here in the Senate, it’s six years. It’s time to put that behind us. This debt crisis cannot be solved with a partisan solution.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Senator David Perdue: No Way To Run A Government WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Georgia radio shows and The Hugh Hewitt Show to discuss the United States’ relationship with various foreign countries, and Congress’ failure to meet its first budget deadline on April 15. Highlights: Dependable Ally: “What we’re trying to do now is reengage with the rest of the world. I’ve been in conversations with President Trump about this, and having lived in Europe and Asia and worked all over the world, I’ve got a perspective on this. What we’re trying to do is tell our allies they can depend on us, but we’re not going to pay their way.” Getting China’s Attention: “The President has done exactly the right things in terms of getting China’s attention and getting them to the table to talk about leveling the playing field.” Prioritizing Ports: “We’re trying to compete with China. They built one of their largest ports in three years. In my home state, we have a port that’s the fastest growing port in the country. Georgia has been trying for 19 years to deepen that port five feet to accommodate the new Panamax ships – 19 years because of the EPA and bureaucratic regulations. This is one area where the government is totally out of control.” Protecting America: “I think Kim Jong-un knows that President Trump is serious. We’re going to exhaust all diplomatic efforts to do this, but the threat is out there. I think it’s a credible threat. President Trump will do whatever we have to do to make sure we protect America.” Fiscal Responsibility: “Georgia is one of the states that is financially responsible. Right now, we’re trying to bring some of that ethos to Washington by creating a budget process that works, getting after redundant agency spending, and getting after some of the outrageous waste we have today. We’ve also got to save Social Security and Medicare.” Train Wreck Coming: “We’re sitting here now, halfway through the year, and Congress hasn’t done a budget for fiscal year 2019, which starts October 1, 2018. We’re headed right toward the same train wreck again where we’ll have a continuing resolution at the end of September, and then probably an omnibus in December. That’s no way to run a $4 trillion government.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Senator David Perdue on Hugh Hewitt: This Is No Way To Run A Railroad WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined the Hugh Hewitt Show to discuss Senate Democrats’ efforts to stall the nominations process. Highlights: No Way To Run A Railroad: “Most of these government departments right now only have half of their direct reports. The first three or four layers of their organizations are empty or filled with acting personnel. That’s no way to run a railroad.” Shortening Debate: “This is the first time in U.S. history – in over 230 years – that the minority party has not waived the 30-hour debate rule on nominations. It’ll take 17 years to get this President’s nominations confirmed if we follow that rule. This is crazy. Senator Lankford has a plan, which I support, that would reduce the 30 hours of debate to eight hours for these critical nominations and two hours for undersecretaries and below.” Confirm Mike Pompeo: “Mike Pompeo was the number one graduate in his military class at West Point. He has a great career. He has a great background. Mike Pompeo is a guy that we need in that position.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.18.2018	04.18.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Atlanta Selection As Finalist For U.S. Army Futures Command Georgia congressional delegation sent March letter highlighting Atlanta assets WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the announcement by U.S. Army senior leaders that Atlanta would advance to additional consideration as home to its new Futures Command. U.S. Army Undersecretary Ryan McCarthy announced the list of the final contenders in a letter sent on April 17, 2018, to the leadership of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees. In his letter, McCarthy cites the Army’s desire to locate the command “near leading academic and commercial institutions to harness the best talent possible in emerging technology and innovation.” “As the U.S. Army modernizes to meet new challenges and a modern battlefield, our soldiers must have the best access and equipment to fight and win in combat,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m glad to see that the Army recognizes Atlanta’s unique advantages. As final decisions are considered, the Georgia delegation and I will gladly continue working together with Army leaders to see to it they fully understand all that Atlanta and the surrounding region have to offer.” “There’s no doubt in my mind that Atlanta is the best place for the Army Futures Command,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Atlanta is the Southeast’s innovation hub and gateway to the world. These resources will support the Army Futures Command in their efforts to modernize and prepare for combat missions. Congratulations to everyone who has worked hard to get us to this point. I strongly believe that locating this Command in Atlanta is essential to providing for our national defense.” In a March 14, 2018, letter led by Senators Isakson and Perdue to U.S. Secretary of the Army Mark Esper, the Georgia congressional delegation provided supporting examples of why Georgia and the metro Atlanta region could support the Army’s mission. They describe the “numerous resources available to Futures Command in Atlanta” including technology resources and experts, world-class academia in the fields of science, technology and business, the world’s largest airport, excellent quality of life and strong support of all branches of the U.S. Department of Defense with more than a dozen military installations across the state. The cities cited by McCarthy as being under consideration are Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York City, Philadelphia, Raleigh, San Diego, San Francisco and Seattle. Background: In 2017, the Army announced it would begin to focus on six modernization efforts to improve its performance to better combat modern-day threats. This modernization effort includes a new Futures Command to lead the restructuring of how the Army researches, develops, and procures new equipment. The Army has also acknowledged that the home of the new command must be a city with access to academia and business expertise. In addition to Senators Isakson and Perdue, the letter was signed by U.S. Representatives Buddy Carter (GA-01), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Drew Ferguson (GA-03), Hank Johnson (GA-04), John Lewis (GA-05), Karen Handel (GA-06), Rob Woodall (GA-07), Austin Scott (GA-08), Doug Collins (GA-09), Jody Hice (GA-10), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Rick Allen (GA-12), David Scott (GA-13), and Tom Graves (GA-14). ###
04.18.2018	04.18.18 Senator David Perdue: CFPB’s Wild Goose Chase Should End Immediately WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, on undoing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) auto-lending regulation: “Yet again, the unaccountable CFPB is abusing its access to consumer data. In its most recent act of incompetence, the CFPB is actually trying to infer race from a race-blind application. The CFPB’s wild goose chase over auto loan discrimination should never have been allowed by the previous Director and it should end immediately.” Senator Perdue is leading the effort to make the bureau accountable to the American people by bringing the agency under the Congressional appropriations process. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.18.2018	04.18.18 Senator David Perdue: There’s No Higher Calling For The United States Congress “We will not solve the debt crisis unless and until we solve this budget process and funding crisis.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday called out the realities of Congress’ failed budget process during the first public hearing of the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Failed Process: “There’s no higher calling for the United States Congress than to finally face up to the failure of the 1974 Budget Act, take a clean-page approach, and finally, once and for all, develop a politically neutral platform that allows us to fund the government on time without all this drama and without creating a crisis for the rest of the world.” $21 Trillion: “We are indeed in a crisis financially. Congress just passed a massive $21 trillion spending bill. I would argue that we will not solve the debt crisis unless and until we solve this budget process and funding crisis that we have today.” 4 Times in 44 years: “Results speak for themselves. Since the 1974 Budget Act was put in place, our budget process has only funded the federal government on time four times in the last 44 years. Actually, the federal government has closed down 20 times in the last 44 years because Congress did not fund the government by its deadline, either the fiscal year or the end of a continuing resolution.” Cut the Drama: “We need a budget process that functions without all the drama. Every other country in the world, every company I know of, and every state I know of does this without the drama of the U.S. federal government.” High Calling: “Senator Hirono said it best in our first meeting, that her only wish is that we’ll have a process in which we’ll never have to use a continuing resolution again. I think that’s a high calling, and I love it because it’s very simple and it ought to be our outcome here.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.17.2018	04.17.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Former First Lady Barbara Bush “Barbara's faith, her love for her family, and commitment to our nation inspired us all” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush: "Bonnie and I join the nation in mourning the loss of former First Lady Barbara Bush. Barbara's faith, her love for her family, and commitment to our nation inspired us all. She made a lasting impression on countless lives through her work on education and literacy programs. Barbara will be missed greatly, and we are sending our heartfelt prayers to President George H.W. Bush and the entire Bush family during this very difficult time.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.17.2018	04.17.18 Senator David Perdue: This Is A Mega Turnaround WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor to recognize Tax Day and the positive impact that tax cuts are having in Georgia and across the country. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Greatest Thing We Can Do: “Changing the tax code was the single greatest thing we could do to unleash economic growth this year, and we’re just getting started.” Economic Rebound: “After eight years of the lowest economic growth in U.S. history, we are now on the rebound. That’s so important for the future of our country.” Mega Turnaround: “I’ve been through some of these large turnarounds, and I would characterize this as a mega turnaround.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture
04.17.2018	04.17.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade Negotiations On CNBC WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Becky Quick and Joe Kernen on CNBC’s Squawk Box about ongoing trade negotiations and his recent trip to China and South Korea to examine the future of trade in the region. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Getting China’s Attention: “We recently met with some of the top leaders in China. They are very serious about dealing with the United States and growing their economy. This is a country that’s on the rise, and we have to deal with them. I think President Trump has taken the right tact. He’s gotten their attention.” New Approach: “We have a new sheriff in town here, and President Trump is not afraid to actually put things in play—for example, these tariffs.” Start the Conversation: “Talk is cheap. We all know that. That’s one reason why I think President Trump put these tariffs on them. Let’s start the conversation. Look at South Korea. We now have a trade agreement with South Korea that puts us on more of a level playing field.” Sign Of Progress: “You saw the week after we were over there—after President Trump threatened them with tariffs—President Xi came in and voluntarily offered to back up on some of the tariffs that they now have against the U.S.” Equal Access: “I think we want a level playing field. We met with several CEOs, people who are operating in China and have been operating in China for the last two decades. It’s a mixed bag. Some are doing well, and some have to transfer technology in order to do business in China. We don’t want that.” Historic Economic Growth: “What President Trump did last year was phenomenal. It was historic. Job one was growing the economy, and to do that we focused on regulations, energy, and taxes. We see right now that over 3 million jobs have been created. Things are moving. We’re on track to see some $6 trillion come back into the economy because of the regulatory rollback work, the Dodd-Frank bill we just passed in the Senate – hopefully, it will pass in the House—and the energy work that we’ve done.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.17.2018	04.17.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Approval of Georgia ‘Opportunity Zones’ 260 tax-friendly zones created in Georgia by Congress’ tax reform bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the approval of 260 ‘Qualified Opportunity Zones’ in Georgia. Qualified Opportunity Zones were created by Congress in the recently enacted tax reform bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and are designed to help spur economic growth in underserved communities by giving special tax treatment to distressed areas designated by the governors of each state. “One of the many benefits to tax reform has been the creation of Qualified Opportunity Zones so that regions, cities and states and local governments can take quick and meaningful action to help economically disadvantaged areas,” said Senator Isakson. “For too long, capital investment has become concentrated in a few prosperous regions while many communities, especially in smaller cities and rural areas, have seen little economic growth. Qualified Opportunity Zones will allow businesses to invest in areas that need a boost, providing a win-win for all involved.” “The key to driving economic growth in struggling communities is to create a more business-friendly environment,” said Senator Perdue. “Encouraging private investment in these Opportunity Zones will deliver a boost to small businesses and create more job opportunities. When President Trump was elected, he made it clear that job one was growing the economy. These Opportunity Zones will help, and I will continue working with President Trump to improve our economy.” Georgia submitted 260 nominations from 83 counties, comprising 60 percent rural communities and 40 percent urban communities, ahead of the March 21 deadline and all were approved today by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Qualified Opportunity Zones are intended to incentivize investment in areas where poverty rates are greater than 20 percent. A map of Georgia’s designated Qualified Opportunity Zones is attached, and an interactive map with additional information is available here. ###
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Senator David Perdue: Assad’s Inhumane Actions Will Not Be Tolerated Urges International Community To Join U.S. in Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s response to Syria’s chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians, and urges the United Nations to prevent Syria from taking its turn as president of the Conference on Disarmament, the UN body that produced the Chemical Weapons Convention. “Chemical attacks against innocent children and civilians are horrific and totally unacceptable. Assad must know his inhumane actions will not be tolerated. I’ve met some of the Syrian families who fled Assad’s terror and are living in a refugee camp at the Turkish border. For too long, the world has been asking: when will Assad stop? It is time for action. President Trump is engaged and led our allies in a measured response to hold Assad accountable. “Now, more in the international community need to join the U.S. in a strong response to Assad. A good start would be to prevent Syria from taking its turn to head the UN Conference on Disarmament and instead insist on leadership from a country that’s not actively using chemical weapons on its own civilians.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Senators Call For Action To Halt North Korea-Syria Chemical Weapons Coordination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), John Kennedy (R-LA), Mike Lee (R-UT), and Pat Toomey (R-PA) are asking the Trump Administration to stop a Syria-North Korea sanctions evasion scheme and North Korean efforts to advance Syria’s chemical weapons technology. “We write to you to express our deep concern regarding a recent United Nations Panel of Experts report that connects North Korea to the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons against its own people, and exposes North Korean sanctions evasion involving Russia and China,” wrote the senators. “According to the report, North Korea supplied Syrian President Assad with acid-resistant tiles, valves and thermometers, all of which are known elements used in construction of chemical weapons factories. It also uncovered that North Korean technicians have been working at known chemical weapons and missile facilities inside Syria. These findings demonstrate an elaborate and alarming military-venture between rogue, tyrannical states to avoid United States and international sanctions and inflict terror and death upon thousands of innocent people.” “It is imperative that the United States provides a swift and appropriate response to the continued use of chemical weapons used by President Assad and his forces, and works to address the shortcomings in sanctions enforcement,” continued the senators. “We have seen firsthand the utter failure of tough talk, followed by hollow action, which the Obama Administration employed to combat the Assad regime.” View the full letter here. ###
04.12.2018	04.12.18 Senator David Perdue: Changes To Tax System Are Working WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s Rose Garden speech about the positive results we are seeing from historic tax cuts enacted this year: “It’s refreshing to see President Trump talk directly to Americans about the positive changes he’s making to grow our economy. They’re definitely working. When President Trump took office, he established job one was to grow the economy. To do that, he worked with Congress to focus on three things: reducing unnecessary regulations, unlocking our energy potential, and changing our tax system. He’s acted on each of these top items and we are seeing real results. Consumer confidence is at a 17-year high, CEO confidence is at a 20-year high, and the tax cuts will bring back more than $2 trillion trapped abroad. Unleashing economic growth is a critical part of solving this $21 trillion national debt crisis, and President Trump is committed to keeping this positive economic momentum going.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.12.2018	04.12.18 CFPB Admits To Collecting & Compromising Americans’ Financial Data Mortgages, Social Security Numbers, Personal Banking Information All Potentially At Risk; 240 confirmed hacks, over 800 suspected hacks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, asks Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Acting Director Mick Mulvaney about the government agency’s financial data collection habits and recent security breaches. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Hundreds Of Breaches Senator Perdue: “I just got back from China and talked to two of the largest market cap companies in the world, Tencent and Alibaba. They are collecting data, and in China, consumers just assume the federal government has access to their data. American citizens do not have that assumption. But your agency today has the right to collect every credit card transaction, every debit card transaction, every car loan application, and every home loan application package. Is that generally correct?” Director Mulvaney: “My understanding is yes, we do have the right to collect that data.” Senator Perdue: “So, the question then is: how is that stored? Where is it stored? Are there third parties involved? Have you been hacked? Can you provide a report to this committee with regard to that data? Have there been any breaches to your knowledge before you got there and since you’ve been director?” Director Mulvaney: “I want to be careful about what I say, and I would be happy to talk about this more in private, but we have been able to document about 240 lapses in our data security.” Senator Perdue: “‘Lapses?’ Is that a breach?” Director Mulvaney: “I think data got out that should not have gotten out. There’s another 800 suspected that we haven’t been able to confirm.” Senator Perdue: “800 potential exfiltrations so far? And this could be not just social security numbers, but this could be my personal bank account. Is this correct?” Director Mulvaney: “It could be a lot of different things, yes. Including those.” Every Data Point Is “Subject To Being Lost” Senator Perdue: “Every single factor that I have as an individual in the United States, every single financial factor can be reviewed and can be collected and can be exposed by the CFPB. Is that correct?” Director Mulvaney: “Everything we keep is subject to being lost, yes.” Senator Perdue: “Has any of that information been lost?” Director Mulvaney: “I don’t want to say anything, but I’m more than happy to talk to all of you about what I’ve talked with the Inspector General about. I think it actually does more harm than good to mention it in a public setting.” Senator Perdue: “Mr. Chairman, I would like to propose a follow-up meeting about this because I am absolutely concerned about the exposure of our data in this rogue agency that has no responsibility to this Congress. I’m very concerned about the security of our financial information that nobody in my state really understands the CFPB is collecting.” Data Stored By Unknown Third Parties Senator Perdue: “Tell me about the third parties that are storing this data today.” Director Mulvaney: “Senator, I’ll have to get back to you on that. I was under the impression we kept most of our own, but I’ve just been told some of our data is kept by third parties.” Senator Perdue: “I know that for a fact. I just don’t know who.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.11.2018	04.11.18 Senator David Perdue: It’s Time Politicians Get Serious About Balancing Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. House of Representatives’ upcoming vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution: “One of the first things I introduced when I got to the United States Senate was a Balanced Budget Amendment. Forty-five states, including Georgia, are required to balance their budgets every single year, and Washington needs to do the same thing. It’s about time politicians get serious about balancing the budget without any gimmicks. However, let’s not kid ourselves here. Passing a Balanced Budget Amendment alone will not solve our country’s debt crisis. We won’t solve the debt crisis unless and until we fix our broken budget process.” Senator Perdue has introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment in the U.S. Senate, and he has made it one of his top priorities to change Congress’ failed budget process. Over the past three years, he has met with policy experts, outside groups, retired Members of Congress, and his colleagues from both parties and chambers to study best practices and highlight the flaws of the current budget process. In February 2018, Senator Perdue was chosen to serve on the newly established Joint Select Committee tasked with fixing Congress’ broken budget process. He is also a member of the Senate Budget Committee. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.11.2018	04.11.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Praise Passage of Senate Resolution Honoring Zell Miller WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today praised the Senate passage of a resolution they offered honoring the life of former U.S. Senator and Georgia Governor Zell Miller. Miller passed away on March 23, 2018, in Young Harris, GA, at the age of 86. The resolution, S.Res.454, details the life and contributions Miller made to our state and nation. Both senators have spoken about the profound impact Miller had on Georgians. Isakson spoke on the floor of the Senate Monday to pay tribute to the late Georgia leader, calling him “one of Georgia’s greatest citizens.” After Miller passed away, Perdue issued a statement noting Miller’s dedication to education and the significant impact he had on Georgia’s education programs. The full text of the resolution is below. A Resolution relative to the death of Zell Bryan Miller, the former Governor and Senator of the State of Georgia. Whereas Zell Bryan Miller (referred to in this preamble as “Zell Miller”) was born to Stephen Grady Miller and Birdie Bryan Miller (referred to in this preamble as “Birdie Miller”) on February 24, 1932, in Young Harris, Georgia; Whereas Stephen Grady Miller died when Zell Miller was 17 days old; Whereas Birdie Miller, a new mother and widow, raised Zell Miller alone in a home that she built for herself and for Zell Miller with rocks from a nearby stream in Young Harris; Whereas Zell Miller grew up in Young Harris and graduated from Young Harris College in 1951; Whereas Zell Miller served in the Marine Corps from 1953 to 1956 and rose to the rank of sergeant; Whereas Zell Miller credited his success to the discipline that he learned as a Marine and the independence that he learned from Birdie Miller; Whereas, on January 14, 1954, Zell Miller met his wife Shirley Carver, to whom Zell Miller was married for 64 years and with whom Zell Miller had 2 sons; Whereas Zell Miller obtained a master’s degree in history from the University of Georgia in 1958 and returned to Young Harris to begin a long career as an educator; Whereas Zell Miller served as mayor of Young Harris from 1959 to 1960; Whereas Zell Miller served as a Georgia State Senator from 1961 to 1964; Whereas Zell Miller was a member of the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles from 1973 to 1975; Whereas Zell Miller served as Lieutenant Governor of the State of Georgia for 16 years, and was the longest-serving lieutenant governor in the history of the State of Georgia; Whereas, on January 14, 1991, Zell Miller was sworn in as the 79th Governor of the State of Georgia and served the State for 2 4-year terms; Whereas, as Governor of the State of Georgia, Zell Miller— (1) in 1992, created the Helping Outstanding Pupils Educationally scholarship, known today as the “HOPE” scholarship, which has enabled more than 1,800,000 students to attend college in the State of Georgia; (2) in 1993, launched the first pre-kindergarten program in the United States, which became a national model for early childhood development programs; (3) in 1996, welcomed the Olympic summer games to Atlanta, Georgia; (4) in 1998, led Georgia to be first among 50 states in academic-based student financial aid due to “HOPE” scholarships; and (5) on leaving office in 1999, enjoyed an 85 percent approval rating, which was a record high in the State of Georgia for a governor; Whereas from 1999 to 2000 Zell Miller returned to his roots as an educator and held teaching positions at Young Harris College, Emory University, and the University of Georgia; Whereas Zell Miller was appointed to the Senate in 2000 to fill the vacancy created by the passing of former Senator Paul Coverdell; Whereas Zell Miller was elected to the Senate in a special election in November 2000 to serve out the term through 2005; Whereas, on January 4, 2005, Zell Miller gave a farewell speech on the floor of the Senate; Whereas, in 2008, the Zell B. Miller Learning Center at the University of Georgia was dedicated in honor of Zell Miller; Whereas, in 2011, the Zell Miller Scholarship was created by the State Legislature of Georgia; Whereas, in 2014, the Zell and Shirley Miller Library at Young Harris College was dedicated in honor of Zell Miller and Shirley Miller; Whereas, in 2016, the Miller Institute was established to preserve, promote, and continue the legacy of Zell Miller; Whereas Zell Miller was a lifetime member of the Board of Trustees at Young Harris College and a member of the Board of Trustees at Mercer University; Whereas, at the time of his death, Zell Miller and Shirley Miller resided in Young Harris in the same house that Birdie Miller built in the early 1930s; Whereas Zell Miller is survived by his wife of 64 years, his 2 sons, Murphy Carver Miller and Matthew Stephen Miller, 4 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren; Whereas the Marine Corps values of patriotism and loyalty possessed by Zell Miller guided his career in service to the State of Georgia and to the United States; and Whereas the State of Georgia and the United States are deeply indebted to Zell Miller for his passion as an educator, lifelong dedication to public service, and commitment to improving the lives of all of the people in the State of Georgia and in the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That— (1) the Senate— (A) extends deepest condolences and gratitude to the family of Zell Bryan Miller; and (B) honors the legacy and life of Zell Bryan Miller, his commitment to the people of the State of Georgia and the United States, and his service to the Senate; and (2) when the Senate adjourns today, it stands adjourned as a further mark of respect to the memory of the late Zell Bryan Miller. ###
04.10.2018	04.10.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Praise Georgia Judge’s Nomination To Federal Bench WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the announcement by President Trump of his intent to nominate Georgia Supreme Court Justice Britt C. Grant, of Atlanta, to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. “Britt Grant has served our state and nation with distinction in her roles on the Georgia Supreme Court, as solicitor general in the Georgia attorney general’s office and in various positions in the George W. Bush administration,” said Senator Isakson. “She will be an excellent addition to the 11th Circuit Court.” “President Trump has made an excellent choice in selecting Justice Britt Grant to serve on the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Perdue. “As both a Georgia Supreme Court justice and as Georgia’s former solicitor general, Justice Grant has displayed the highest level of integrity and professionalism in her career, and I am certain that will continue with her service on the 11th Circuit.” Grant has served as a justice on the Supreme Court of Georgia since 2017. Earlier this year, Judge Elizabeth L. “Lisa” Branch, of Atlanta, was confirmed by the Senate to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. The White House press release on today’s announcement can be found here. ###
04.05.2018	04.05.18 Growing Number Of Georgia Workers & Businesses Benefiting From Tax Cuts Georgia employees seeing bonuses, pay raises, other benefits thanks to tax changes ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted additional businesses in Georgia that have announced employee bonuses, wage hikes, or 401(k) match increases as a result of the historic tax cuts signed into law in December. American Proteins, Inc. (Cumming, GA) – $1,000 bonuses for 700 employees. Read more here. “President Donald Trump and the Republican Congress have reduced taxes for businesses and individuals and I'm excited about what this means for our company and its employees.” –Tommy Bagwell, American Proteins Chairman and CEO Carter’s (Atlanta, GA) – Bonuses of approximately 5% of base salary for full-time employees and $100 per year of service for part-time employees; increased 401(k) matches. Read more here. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 is expected to have a significant and positive impact on our Company’s future earnings, cash flow, and ability to invest in its growth strategies. In 2018, we plan to reinvest approximately half of the $40 million benefit from the lower corporate tax rate in brand marketing and improved eCommerce capabilities. Given the significant and unexpected benefit in 2017 of the historic tax reform legislation, we are also announcing today that our Board of Directors has approved $20 million in special compensation awards to all of our Company’s eligible full-time and part-time employees provided through enhanced retirement plan contributions and bonuses.” –Michael Casey, Carter’s Chairman and CEO CMC of Georgia, Inc. (Toccoa, GA) – Bonuses of up to $1,000. Read more here. “We think that changes in taxes and tax law all have positives, and we wanted to get in the front by sharing it with our employees.” –Mathew Marty, CMC President Cox Enterprises (Atlanta, GA) – Bonuses of up to $2,000 for non-executive employees. Read more here. Georgia Power (Atlanta, GA) – $330 million in direct credits to consumers in 2018 and 2019. Read more here. “We are committed to offering the highest customer value with rates below the national average, and we're pleased to be able to continue to pass the benefits of the new tax laws on to our customers.” –Paul Bowers, Georgia Power Chairman, President, and CEO Southwire (Carrollton, GA) – $1,000 bonuses for full-time employees and $250 bonuses for part-time employees; expanding parental leave policy; establishing a scholarship program for hourly employees seeking to further their education. Read more here. BB&T Corporation (94 locations in GA) – $1,200 bonuses for 27,000 associates; raising minimum wage from $12 to $15 per hour; donating $100 million to charitable organizations. Read more here. “Overall, BB&T's Executive Management team believes the successful passage of tax reform is very encouraging news that should move BB&T, the financial services industry and the U.S. economy in the direction of stronger growth.” –BB&T Press Release Best Buy (37 stores in GA) – $1,000 bonuses for full-time employees and $500 bonuses for part-time employees; donating $20 million to support teen tech centers and Geek Squad academies across the country. Read more here. Fifth Third Bancorp (33 locations in GA) – $1,000 bonuses for 13,500 employees; raising minimum wage to $15 per hour. Read more here. Lowe’s (63 stores and 4 distribution centers in GA) – $1,000 bonuses for 260,000 hourly employees; expanding parental leave and adoption assistance. Read more here. Regions Bank (124 locations in GA) – Raising minimum wage to $15 per hour; making $40 million in charitable donations; investing $100 million in capital expenditures. Read more here. Ryder (31 locations in GA) – $23 million in bonuses for 31,000 employees. Read more here. TJX Companies, Inc. (50 stores in GA) – Bonuses for eligible, non-bonus plan associates; instituting paid parental leave; making contributions to charitable organizations; planning to repatriate more than $1 billion in cash in FY2019. Read more here. “We are pleased to be utilizing the cash benefit from the 2017 Tax Act to make incremental investments in our Associates, our communities and shareholder distributions. Apart from the tax-related cash benefit, we plan to continue to re-invest in the business, including store growth, supply chain and infrastructure, technology, training our Associates, and upgrades to the shopping experience for customers. We are pleased to be in a position to do all of this while continuing to deliver great value to our customers and shareholders!” –Ernie Herrman, TJX Companies President and CEO U-Haul (18 locations in GA) – $1,200 bonuses for full-time employees and $500 bonuses for part-time employees. Read more here. “To comply with the intent of the President's tax reduction, we are investing an additional $200 million in personnel, tools and facilities. I have the opportunity to travel to locations across the U-Haul system, and I see the swell of confidence in the U.S. economy and in the American consumer. Tax reductions lead to job growth, and jobs offer people increased mobility and the option to seek better opportunities for their families. These are positive indicators for U-Haul, the self-move and self-storage industry, and the economy as a whole.” –Joe Shoen, U-Haul Chairman Walmart (189 locations in GA) – Bonuses of up to $1,000 based on length of service; raising base wage from $9 to $11 per hour; expanding parental leave benefits. Read more here. “Tax reform gives us the opportunity to be more competitive globally and to accelerate plans for the U.S.” –Doug McMillon, Walmart CEO Wells Fargo (259 locations in GA) – Raising minimum wage to $15 per hour; donating $400 million to charitable organizations. Read more here. View other Georgia-based businesses benefiting from tax cuts here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.04.2018	04.04.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade & Dr. King’s Legacy On Georgia Radio ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Scott Slade on WSB’s Atlanta’s Morning News to discuss his recent trip to China and South Korea, trade, immigration, and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy on the 50th anniversary of his assassination. Click here or on the image below to listen. Standing Up For America: “The President is standing up for America. What he’s doing with NAFTA is the same thing he did with NATO. He also threatened to pull out of the South Korean trade agreement. I’ve met with South Korea’s Trade Representative several times about this over the last few months. Last week, we got an agreement, and we got most everything we wanted. Now we have a platform for great trade relations with one of our great allies, South Korea.” Master Negotiator: “This President is a master negotiator, and I give him full credit for getting China to the table. We’ve been trying to do this for 30 years. The President is standing up to the trade imbalance we all recognize we have with China.” America’s Interests: “Right now, you see the United States and China both asserting how important their own self-interests are. We haven’t done that in decades in the United States. Now, I don’t like tariffs. I think they can be counterproductive and dangerous, but I’m not afraid that this is going to get out of hand.” Border Security: “This is about national security. That southern border is extremely porous. We all know it. We’ve got to fix that. The President is very frustrated right now because Congress hasn’t appropriated the money to put the wall in areas we need to put it.” Mexico’s Responsibility: “Finally, yesterday the Mexican government acted and broke the caravan up. This is their responsibility. It’s irresponsible for the government of Mexico not to secure their southern border and then to not help us protect our southern border.” Dr. King’s Legacy: “Dr. King changed America forever. He preached peace and togetherness. That’s what America is all about, and it’s something we need to remind ourselves of daily. Dr. King said America was a country of destiny, and I believe that.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.29.2018	03.29.18 Senator David Perdue: Korea Trade Updates Will Benefit Americans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on improvements to the United States-Republic of Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS): “In just eight short months, President Trump was able to deliver on his promise to make our trade agreements work for the American people. The updates to the Korea Free Trade Agreement will benefit the American worker and our economy. Of equal importance, this deal will help us uphold one of our strongest alliances in the world and ensure a future of prosperity for the United States and South Korea. I have just met with the South Korean Prime Minister, Lee Nak-yeon, in Seoul and we discussed how this agreement will enhance our relationship and help level the playing field.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.23.2018	03.23.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Zell Miller ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the passing of Zell Miller. “Bonnie and I join all Georgians in mourning the loss of former Governor and U.S. Senator Zell Miller. Zell Miller touched the lives of many as a teacher, Marine, public servant, and friend. Throughout his career, Zell Miller was a strong advocate for the value of a public education and made it his mission to ensure Georgia students had the opportunity to pursue a college degree. Because of his work on the HOPE Scholarship Program, over 1.8 million Georgians have been able to attend a public college or university in Georgia who may not have been able to otherwise. His legacy will live on through them. Bonnie and I are praying for Shirley and the Miller family during this very difficult time.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Senator David Perdue Opposes Massive Spending Bill “This spending bill was written by a few politicians who got in a room and decided how to spend a trillion dollars.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) announces his opposition to the Senate’s upcoming vote on a massive federal spending package: “Washington has reached a new low. We are six months into this fiscal year and we are just now voting on funding for the remainder of it. Not to mention, this is after two shutdowns and five continuing resolutions. This is beyond pathetic. It is irresponsible, and a danger to our Republic. “Unfortunately, this spending bill is not a product that represents everybody. It’s a product written by a few politicians who got in a room and decided how to spend a trillion dollars. The result is a massive spending package projected to increase the federal debt by another trillion dollars. This is no way to fund the federal government. While this bill provides our military with more funding, it does not provide them with more certainty in the long-term. “The larger problem here is the budget process has failed again. It is imperative the newly formed Joint Select Committee change the budget process to address the structural problems that lead to this unacceptable outcome. For the last three years, I’ve been working with both Democrats and Republicans, and I am convinced we need a politically neutral platform to fund the government on time, every year without using continuing resolutions or massive, last minute spending packages. “I came to the U.S. Senate to change how Washington works, and I have not given up. We will not solve our nation’s $21 trillion debt crisis by simply fixing our budget process, but we won’t solve the debt crisis unless and until we fix our broken budget process.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Senator David Perdue Recognizes National & Georgia Ag Week WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, released the following statement recognizing National Agriculture Week, March 18-24, and Georgia Agriculture Awareness Week, March 19-23: “Thank you to all of our farmers and growers for feeding our state and country. Agriculture is Georgia’s number one economic driver. I grew up working on my family’s farm with my cousin, Sonny, where we learned that agriculture is a business, lifestyle, and proud family tradition for many Georgians. This National Agriculture Week, Georgia is proud to have two of our own, Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Farm Bureau President Zippy Duvall, leading the charge for farmers, ranchers, and landowners across the country. We also celebrate Georgia agriculture and the industry’s many accomplishments under the leadership of Gary Black. Thanks to their efforts, we are finally undoing years of bad policies and getting Washington out of the way and off the land of Georgia’s farmers.” Background This month, Senator Perdue took action to preserve important loans used by farmers to start and grow their operations. Senator Perdue recently met with Georgia Farm Bureau’s Young Farmers to discuss the upcoming farm bill and Georgia’s agricultural priorities. In November, Senator Perdue held a round table discussion with Georgia farmers and industry leaders. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Senators Perdue, Daines, Grassley, Johnson, Sasse Statement On Delegation Trip To China And Korea WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), and Ben Sasse (R-NE) released the following statement before departing on a congressional delegation trip to China, South Korea, and the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The trip has been developed over the past six months. “We are looking forward to traveling to China, South Korea and the DMZ as part of a congressional delegation trip. On our trip we will address issues important to the United States including trade, intellectual property, technology, security and human rights,” said the delegation members. The delegation also commented on today’s announcement by USTR regarding trade tariffs on China: “Today, the president announced a series of tariffs on China in response to concerns over the country’s trade practices. Given this announcement, we look forward to engaging in strategic discussions about how best to ensure free and smart trade.” While on their trip, the Senators will prioritize the following trade concerns in discussions with Chinese leaders: Forced Technology Transfers Discriminatory Licensing Restrictions State-Coordinated and Supported Acquisition of Advanced Technologies and Strategic Assets Unauthorized Intrusions into Computer Networks and IP Theft Details regarding the delegation trip will be available following the conclusion of the trip. ###
03.20.2018	03.20.18 WTAS: Georgia Banks & Industry Groups Applaud Dodd-Frank Rollback WASHINGTON, D.C. – Community banks, regional banks, and industry groups are applauding the significant regulatory rollback the United States Senate passed last week. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) helped craft the bipartisan rollback plan, which included three of his provisions. Community Bankers Association of Georgia: “On behalf of Georgia’s community banks, we appreciate Senator Perdue co-sponsoring S. 2155. Relief targeted at community banks like our members will deliver a substantial economic benefit for Main Street small businesses and local communities across our nation.” – Rob Braswell, President and CEO, Community Bankers Association of Georgia Georgia Bankers Association: “As Georgians we applaud Sen. David Perdue for co-sponsoring and Sen. Johnny Isakson for supporting this important bipartisan community and regional bank regulatory relief bill. Simplifying an unnecessarily complex regulatory structure is a big benefit for main street business and consumers. The bill maintains a safe, sound and properly regulated banking system while helping deserving borrowers get access to credit. We hope a final bill will be negotiated soon.” – Joe Brannen, President and CEO, GBA Fidelity Bank (Atlanta): “This helpful measure provides our banks with much more flexibility to put credit and banking services to work in our hometowns around the state.” –Palmer Proctor, President and CEO, Fidelity Bank, Atlanta, and Chairman of GBA Carver State Bank (Savannah): “Despite our strong commitment to promoting access to capital among underserved groups, the implementation of the expanded HMDA and new Small Business Lending Disclosure requirements will have a major impact on our bank – even though institutions like ours were not the ones engaged in the kind of discriminatory lending practices that these new requirements are designed to prohibit. We believe that a narrow exemption like the one set forth in S. 2155 strikes the right balance between relief for our institution, while still imposing reporting requirements that can facilitate the kind of fair lending enforcement activity that we fully support to ensure that our communities’ credit needs are met.” – Robert James II, Senior Vice President, Carver State Bank Citizens Trust Bank (Atlanta): “Citizens Trust Bank appreciates the bipartisan effort to craft this regulatory reform proposal. We especially appreciate the support of Senator Perdue and the efforts he has undertaken to ensure that the needs of Georgia institutions like Citizens Trust Bank were taken into consideration during the crafting of this bill. We very much look forward to continuing to work with him on other reforms that will benefit the communities we serve.” – Cynthia Day, President and CEO, Citizens Trust Bank Georgia Chamber of Commerce: “Community and regional banks play an important role in economic development. By lending to local businesses, these banks provide capital that keep communities growing. Rolling back regulations that have made it harder for banks to do their business is an important part of helping communities of all sizes across Georgia.” – Chris Clark, President and CEO, Georgia Chamber of Commerce Consumer Bankers Association: “We appreciate the Senate’s bipartisan effort to enact regulatory reform which helps banks better serve American consumers and small businesses. The agreement makes some meaningful regulatory changes, including providing the Federal Reserve flexibility to make a more complete assessment when designating certain institutions systematically important. This is a significant first step and we urge Congress to continue working toward policies which consider risk rather than arbitrary asset thresholds.” – Richard Hunt, President and CEO, CBA Independent Community Bankers of America: “On behalf of the nearly 5,700 community banks represented by ICBA, I write to thank the 67 U.S. Senators who voted in favor of the motion to proceed to consideration of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act…This bill is a carefully balanced package of regulatory relief provisions. This relief is targeted at community banks and selected for its potential for creating maximum economic growth while safeguarding critical consumer protections and safety and soundness.” – Camden Fine, President and CEO, ICBA Credit Union National Association: “On behalf of America's credit unions, I want to express our strong support for S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. The Credit Union National Association represents America’s credit unions and their 110 million members. We applaud the good faith effort to craft common-sense regulatory reform legislation. S.2155 is the result of months of deliberate bipartisan negotiations and contains several provisions supported by America’s credit unions.” – Jim Nussle, President and CEO, CUNA Mortgage Bankers Association: "I want to commend Chairman Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) for reaching a bipartisan compromise on regulatory relief legislation designed to lessen some burdens on lenders, allowing them to better serve their customers and consumers. In particular, MBA is glad to see the inclusion of language amending the SAFE Act to provide increased job mobility for loan originators, as well as language to address concerns with PACE lending, HMDA, and the TILA/RESPA integrated disclosure. We look forward to continuing to work with the committee on other provisions in the bill, such as expanding the language regarding Qualified Mortgages held in portfolio." – David H. Stevens, President and CEO, MBA American Bankers Association: “ABA is pleased that the committee has taken the input of a wide range of stakeholders in fashioning this bipartisan legislation. We strongly believe the bill’s many meaningful reforms will help financial institutions serve their customers and grow our economy.” – Rob Nichols, President and CEO, ABA National Bankers Association: “On behalf of the National Bankers Association, I write to express our member banks’ support for S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act…We appreciate the opportunity to weigh in on this legislation as it will enhance the ability of our nation’s financial institutions to better serve their customers and communities.” – Preston Pinkett, Chairman, NBA National Federation of Independent Business: “On behalf of the National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business advocacy organization, I write in support of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. This legislation will provide regulatory relief to community banks and credit unions while helping to ensure readily available access to capital for small businesses.” – Juanita D. Duggan, President and CEO, NFIB Financial Services Roundtable: “In crafting S. 2155, Chairman Crapo and a bipartisan group of key Senators have provided thoughtful leadership in an effort to modernize regulatory requirements so financial institutions can better serve clients, communities and the broader goal of job growth. This bipartisan legislation takes important steps to improve our nation’s financial regulatory system.” – Tim Pawlenty, CEO, FSR U.S. Chamber of Commerce: “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports S. 2155, the ‘Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act,’ which would provide long-overdue relief to Main Street businesses and consumers…The Chamber strongly supports tailored regulations – sophisticated rules that are properly calibrated to the risk profile of an activity or institution. S. 2155 is a first step in the right direction.” – Neal L. Bradley, Senior Vice President and Chief Policy Officer, U.S. Chamber of Commerce National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials: “Thank you for your dedication to ensuring small housing agencies are not unfairly burdened by disproportionate rules and regulations that prevent them from effectively and efficiently serving their communities. The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155) provides desperately- needed regulatory relief to small housing agencies across the country.” – Adrianne Todman, CEO, NAHRO National Association of Realtors: “REALTORS® believe that balanced financial regulation and appropriate consumer protection will result in a more vibrant housing market and overall economy. NAR urges Congress and the Administration to enact S. 2155 into law.” – Elizabeth Mendenhall, President, NAR ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Senator David Perdue: These Are The Results The American People Want WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor about the U.S. Senate’s bipartisan action to roll back significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act and provide regulatory relief to community and regional banks across the country. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: 1,700 Banks: “Yesterday, we pulled back on a blunt instrument law, Dodd-Frank, that was totally ineffective and achieved the opposite results of what it intended. Since Dodd-Frank was enacted over 1,700 small banks have gone out of business. Many because they were unable to afford to comply with the 2,319 pages and 390 new regulations imposed by Dodd-Frank.” Bipartisan Action: “Two-thirds of the U.S. Senate put the national interests above self-interests and passed a bipartisan bill that will change the face of lending for community banks and regional banks across our country.” Big Win: “This is exactly the kind of result the American people want us to deliver. This measured rollback combined with last year's regulatory rollback, President Trump's steps to unleash our energy potential, and our historic tax cuts bill will be a big win for our economy.” Back In Business: “Large businesses are having no problems getting loans, but the small, start-up entrepreneur is having trouble today. This bill will help alleviate that. Small businesses should look at this and say we're back in business. I believe this bill will also breathe life back into many communities around our country. These community and regional banks – and by extension communities and small businesses across the country – have been unduly punished for something they had nothing to do with, and it's time to correct that.” Employed Capital: “At the beginning of last year, some $6 trillion was not at work in our $20 trillion economy. That's just unbelievable. You can't even describe that to people outside this country. There was some $2 trillion on the balance sheets of the Russell 1,000. That is now being employed. We see news every week of companies announcing capital expenditure plans for the next few years, largely as a result of the rollback of regulations last year.” Lending Potential: “By eliminating the archaic tax on repatriated profits in the tax cuts bill, most of the $2 trillion of unrepatriated U.S. profits overseas are coming back. This banking bill reverses some of the more onerous provisions of Dodd-Frank on community banks and that will free up some $2 trillion potential in lending capacity. I think this is historic.” Unintended Consequences: “It happens so often in Washington where well-intended people who have very little experience in the free enterprise system make decisions that have unintended consequences, and that happened with Dodd-Frank.” Job Creation: “We know how to create jobs. We just need to get the federal government out of the way. One-size-fits-all regulations do not work.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Regulatory Rollback On Fox Business & Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business’ Mornings With Maria and David Westin on Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak Americas about the Senate’s most significant roll back of regulations since Dodd-Frank was signed into law. Click here or click on the image below to watch the Fox Business interview. Fox Business Highlights: Targeted Approach: “Since President Trump was inaugurated he has been talking about creating a level-playing field with a measured approach. Last year, he said job one was growing the economy and we focused on regulations, energy, and taxes. You see the early stages of those results. Now he wants equal access. His instincts are exactly right. I believe we’ll see a measured approach going forward.” Trade Matrix: “At Reebok we worked off a trade matrix. We had countries where we made products and countries where we sold products. We were transferring products across borders all the time. Trade is a matrix in which you’ve got countries, industries, and product categories.” Protecting American Workers: “The President is standing up to protect American workers, jobs, and companies to create equal access and a level playing field. There is absolutely nothing wrong with that.” Results Are Clear: “I would love to see some time to let the economy breathe with the actions we’ve taken on regulations, energy, and taxes. Yesterday, we just passed this bipartisan banking bill that will free up over two trillion dollars of capital coming out of small community and regional banks. The economy is humming and it’s just in the early stages.” Victory Lap: “Passing a bipartisan bill like this doesn't happen often in the Senate. I ran for the U.S. Senate to get results and that’s what the President wants too. This bill had bipartisan support with 16 Democrats voting for it. We fought hard for this in the Banking Committee. This is major and will absolutely stimulate the economy.” America Leading: “Mike Pompeo is a great nomination. We’re headed in the right direction. I’ve traveled the world as a member of the Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees to meet with heads of state. What they want is American leadership and American partnership. They want consistency in partnership and that is what we're seeing today.” Click here or click on the image below to watch the Bloomberg TV interview. Bloomberg TV Highlights: Main Street America: “To grow the economy you have to free up capital that was locked up by prior regulations. There’s over $6 trillion of capital not at work in the economy. That’s a big deal. Two trillion of that is on the balance sheets of small community and regional banks. Yesterday, we changed the reserve requirements and lowered the regulatory burden on these small banks. That will have a stimulative effect on Main Street America.” Huge Accomplishment: “Small community and regional banks had nothing to do with the 2008 and 2009 financial crisis and yet they got wrapped up in this blunt instrument called Dodd-Frank. I’m excited about this bill we passed yesterday. We fought hard for this. It went through regular order and had bipartisan support. This is a remarkable accomplishment.” Parallel Access: “I’ve been involved in trade my entire career working across borders to transfer products back and forth. America has always been a trading country. President Trump’s instinct are correct. We need a level playing field. If you want access to our markets, we want access to yours and we want legal activity. We want a level playing field for our workers and companies.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.14.2018	03.14.18 Senator David Perdue’s Efforts Lead To Dodd-Frank Rollback “This regulatory relief is long overdue” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, praises the most significant bipartisan rollback of financial regulations since Dodd-Frank was enacted: “This regulatory relief is long overdue. Community and regional banks have been hammered by one-size-fits-all government regulations enacted by Dodd-Frank for nearly eight years. As a result, two trillion dollars are sitting on the sidelines, not at work in our economy today. This regulatory rollback, combined with all the regulatory rollbacks of last year, the historic tax cuts, and President Trump’s actions on energy, will continue to revive our economy. This will make a lot more capital available to all of our job creators on Main Street.” Senator Perdue worked to secure the following provisions in the final bill to remove burdensome regulations on regional and community banks: Increase Access To Mortgages- The bill exempts community banks and credit unions that keep mortgages on their own books from the CFPB’s qualified mortgage rule. Today, many small banks and credit unions lack the staff and budget to comply with the thousand page, one-size-fits-all CFPB qualified mortgage rule and portfolio lending will help restart mortgage lending in small town America. Separate Regional Banks from Hundred Billion Dollar Banks- The current asset threshold for the designation of a systemically important financial institutions (SiFi) is so low it encompasses regional banks, subjecting them to the same regulations and reporting requirements as the largest banks in the world. The bill raises SiFi threshold from $50B to $250B and enhances regulators powers to oversee banks with assets that fall between $250B and $100B. Improve Consumer Credit Protections- Creates a new national standard for credit protections so all consumers, regardless of where they live, have the ability to freeze their credit easily. In addition, veterans and elderly will have increased access to more credit monitoring resources. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.14.2018	03.14.18 Senator David Perdue: Great Choice Picking Larry Kudlow To Lead Economic Council WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Banking Committees, comments on President Trump’s selection of Larry Kudlow to serve as Director of the National Economic Council and his chief economic adviser: “I have respected Larry Kudlow’s work for many years. President Trump made a great choice picking Larry to lead his economic agenda. Our economy is finally turning around because of the historic tax cuts passed by Congress and the work President Trump is doing on the regulatory side. We need more smart, business-minded people who understand that this President is trying to make the United States more competitive with the rest of the world and provide much needed economic relief after many years of failed fiscal policies.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.14.2018	03.14.18 Georgia Congressional Delegation Pushes Georgia as Home to U.S. Army Futures Command WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today joined the Georgia congressional delegation in urging the Pentagon to consider Georgia as home to the new Futures Command of the U.S. Army. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Army Mark Esper, the delegation seized on Esper’s comments in his testimony before the U.S. Committee on Armed Services on Dec. 7, 2017, that our soldiers’ future success depends upon the Army’s efforts to reform and modernize now. In 2017, the Army announced it would begin to focus on six modernization efforts to improve its performance to better combat modern-day threats. This modernization effort includes a new Futures Command to lead the restructuring of how the Army researches, develops, and procures new equipment. The Army has also acknowledged that the home of the new command must be a city with access to academia and business expertise. “The Georgia delegation applauds your efforts in modernizing the U.S. Army and improving the acquisition process to give our soldiers the needed equipment to fight, and overwhelmingly win, in combat,” the letter reads. The letter goes on to emphasize that Atlanta, as the largest hub for the private sector and innovation in the Southeast region, is home to an array of advantageous assets to the U.S. Army. “Members of Congress from Georgia are dedicated to supporting our servicemen and women, and in doing so, we urge you to fully consider the numerous resources available to Futures Command in Atlanta,” the letter continues. Georgia and the metro Atlanta region could support the Army’s mission with technology resources and experts, world-class academia in the fields of science, technology and business, the world’s largest airport, excellent quality of life and strong support of all branches of the U.S. Department of Defense with more than a dozen military installations across the state. In addition to Senators Isakson and Perdue, the letter was signed by U.S. Representatives Buddy Carter (GA-01), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Drew Ferguson (GA-03), Hank Johnson (GA-04), John Lewis (GA-05), Karen Handel (GA-06), Rob Woodall (GA-07), Austin Scott (GA-08), Doug Collins (GA-09), Jody Hice (GA-10), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Rick Allen (GA-12), David Scott (GA-13), and Tom Graves (GA-14). View the letter here.
03.09.2018	03.09.18 Senator David Perdue Works To Strengthen Farm Lending Program “Agriculture is Georgia’s largest economic driver and our farmers are the backbone of the industry” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is taking action to preserve important loans used by farmers to start and grow their operations. “Agriculture is Georgia’s largest economic driver and our farmers are the backbone of the industry,” said Senator Perdue. “Whether our farmers are just starting out or are looking to expand and improve, it’s critical they have the financial flexibility they need to get their farms up and running. I’m proud to work on strengthening this important loan program for our country’s farmers.” The bipartisan Farm Service Agency Loan Flexibility Act, sponsored by Senator Perdue and Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), would provide the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) with the authority it needs to issue approved loans during times of high demand and irregular funding from Congress. FSA’s operating loans are used by beginning farmers, women and minorities, and other disadvantaged borrowers for expenses such as livestock, equipment, and seed, while ownership loans help farmers develop land. “For many farmers—and new farmers in particular—access to capital is a top issue, and in years past, the inability of FSA to lend to farmers in need because of loan program caps has been problematic for our industry,” said Gerald Long, President of Georgia Farm Bureau. “Georgia Farm Bureau is pleased that Senator Perdue (R-GA) has chosen to lead on this issue and many other agriculture issues in Congress.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Senator David Perdue Questions U.S. Military Commander About Russian & Iranian Aggression Commander reaffirms commitment to supporting the defense of Israel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked General Curtis Scaparrotti, Commander of U.S. European Command and NATO Supreme Allied Commander Europe, about the Iranian drone that recently infiltrated Israel’s airspace and continued acts of aggression in the region. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Iranian Aggression Towards Israel Senator Perdue: “I have a quick question about Iran and their increased activity in Syria. It appears they built a permanent base outside Damascus with a warehouse that’s capable of storing missiles that could hit Israel. We know they talk openly about a land-bridge from Tehran to Beirut. The changing situation in Syria certainly raises questions particularly with the latest aggression with the drone incident in Israel. How do you assess the current situation with Syria and what’s your command’s posture relative to the security of our ally Israel?” General Scaparrotti: “My mission in EUCOM, with respect to Israel, is to support the defense of Israel. In fact, we have a large contingent there today doing an infant defense exercise and rehearsing those operations planned in defense of Israel, should they be needed. We continue to work close with them in a defensive means but we also stay very close to them with intelligence. As you know, they see Iran as an existential threat. They’re concerned about the posture of Iranian forces or Iranian-supported forces in Syria and perhaps that they might be intending to remain in Syria as this is resolved. They’re concerned about the missile technology they believe may be transferred from Iran to any of the extremist organizations or Lebanese Hezbollah to their north. We’re watching this very closely. I agree that a land-bridge between Iran through Syria would not be a good outcome.” Russia’s Fight For Regional Dominance Senator Perdue: “When you look at Russia’s facilities in Murmansk, Kaliningrad, Sevastopol in the Crimea region, it seems similar to what they’ve done in Georgia, Latakia, and Tartus in Syria, I’m concerned about these frozen conflicts. I’d like to get your update on the Georgia frozen conflict. What’s our posture there and the long-term strategy? You talked about the current situation in the Ukraine. What is the U.S.’s current posture, with regard to Ukraine and Georgia relative to what looks to be a solidification of Russia’s positioning in a crescent around Eastern Europe?” General Scaparrotti: “I would state that as a partner, Georgia is a strong one. They provide forces to Afghanistan and others. Not a large country, but a good fighting force and a good partner. What we see there today when you look into the two areas that Russians have presence, those breakaway portions of Georgia, Ossetia, they are now working to bring them into the Russian Federation, in the sense that what you begin to see the use of Russian administration within those regions.” Senator Perdue: “Putin calls them independent states now, those two states.” General Scaparrotti: “He does, but neither one of them is recognized internationally as independent states. I don’t think there is maybe more than three or four nations in the world that accept his definition. What he’s doing is drawing them into his administration. In some of these countries where they have a presence, they have declared those soldiers able to become part of the Russian Federation military forces, or they have agreements they would become a part if there were conflict. You can see Russia drawing them into their orbit. I think if you go to Moldova or other areas where we have frozen conflicts, this is to their advantage because it helps secure what they see as part of their strategic depth on the periphery, once they’re in their area of influence.” View Senator Perdue’s full questioning in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the U.S. European Command here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Senator David Perdue Meets With Georgia Farm Bureau Young Farmers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recently met with the Georgia Farm Bureau’s Young Farmers to discuss the upcoming farm bill and Georgia’s agricultural priorities. To download photos, click here or on the image below. “These young farmers are the next generation of leaders who will continue to make Georgia a strong state for agriculture,” said Senator Perdue. “Like them, I grew up working on a farm and know first-hand that agriculture is a way of life for many Georgians. I was glad to hear about their priorities as we work toward developing a farm bill that will contribute to a safer, stronger, and more abundant agricultural industry.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Senators Isakson & Perdue Applaud New Grant Funding for MARTA U.S. Department of Transportation prioritizes key Georgia infrastructure asset WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation announcement that the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) in Atlanta, Georgia, earned a $12.6 million federal grant to help fund MARTA’s plan for a 9.4-mile bus rapid transit route connecting a downtown Atlanta neighborhood to the midtown Atlanta area. The grant to MARTA comes through the National Infrastructure Investments Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) discretionary grants program. “Passengers, drivers and so many others will benefit from this grant, which will address mobility, access and safety challenges in some of our vital Atlanta transportation corridors,” said Senator Isakson, who supported the grant. “The rapid bus transit project once completed will offer much better links between neighborhoods, office buildings, higher education institutions and medical facilities that area residents rely on daily. I congratulate MARTA and the city of Atlanta on this positive news.” “When the I-85 bridge collapsed, MARTA proved to be critical to moving Georgians around Atlanta,” said Senator Perdue. “It’s great to see the federal government not only recognizes the value of MARTA, but also is willing to invest further in this infrastructure asset. I applaud President Trump and Secretary Chao for making this project a priority.” “TIGER grants are direct federal investments in projects that will improve our surface transportation at the national, regional or local level,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao said. Specifically, MARTA’s Summerhill Bus Rapid Transit Project was awarded $12,629,760 through this competitive TIGER grant process. The Summerhill Bus Rapid Transit is an approximately 9.4-mile bus rapid transit route connecting the Summerhill neighborhood of Atlanta anchored by Georgia State University to MARTA’s heavy rail system and the Atlanta Streetcar network. The project includes the purchase of approximately five new bus rapid transit vehicles that will operate in a mix of exclusive and shared roadways and the installation of approximately 30 transit station locations with level boarding along with other conveniences.
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Senator David Perdue Urges Senate To Roll Back Dodd-Frank Regulations “For nearly eight years, small-town banks have been hammered by big government regulations enacted by Dodd-Frank” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) urged support for the bipartisan action the U.S. Senate is taking to roll back stifling regulations put in place by Dodd-Frank and provide relief to regional and community banks around the country. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Relationship Lending: “My hometown bank has been bought and sold a few times. My father who was a school superintendent was on that board. It was my first exposure to how banking works. I remember going with my dad, who didn't make a lot of money, when he wanted a loan to buy a car. I remember sitting off to the side and listening to the conversation. I knew the lending officer because he taught me in Sunday school. We saw him every week in church and his children went to the school where my dad was principal. This is a different time today. I understand that. The facts still remain that relationship lending should be at the core of what we consider here. This is a lending institution making a transaction with an individual who will then pay that loan back.” Getting Washington Out Of The Way: “Since Dodd-Frank became law, about 1,700 banks have shut down. Most of these are community banks and regional banks, entities that had nothing to do with the financial situation in 2008. Some in this body may see that as an encouraging sign that big government is now getting more control of the lending principal and the banking industry, I think they're misguided.” Supporting Main Street: “Local banks, credit unions, and regional banks, are the banks supporting our local main street, providing small businesses with capital, and sponsoring little league baseball games. For nearly eight years, small-town banks have been hammered by big government regulations enacted by Dodd-Frank.” Loosening Regulations: “Compliance costs for community banks have risen by more than four or five percent. I met with a regional bank from Georgia. Their compliance costs have gone up because of Dodd-Frank. That's money that could be in the community in the form of loans. Instead, it's now in the form of higher compliance costs and fines paid to the federal government.” Providing Certainty: “We address government restrictions on reciprocal deposits in this bill. Reciprocal deposits have created uncertainty around the critical lifeline for community banks and especially minority-owned banks that have specialized in serving customers with limited discretionary access to capital. Dodd-Frank has crippled these banks when it comes to serving their communities.” Growing Business in Georgia: “In my state, Citizens Trust Bank, a minority-owned bank in Atlanta, has been forced to drawback it's business because of the regulatory imposed by Dodd-Frank. This is counter intuitive. Thanks to the action we're taking this week, Citizens Trust will be able to grow their business because of safe harbor provisions. They are not alone. Carver State Bank, a minority-owned bank serving Savannah, Georgia, for 90 years, will also benefit.” Stopping One-Size-Fits-All Policy: “Small banks often spend too much time and resources dealing with the regulations and compliance costs that Dodd-Frank has created. Put simply, Dodd-Frank is another one-size-fits-all, Washington, bureaucratic policy that hurts the very people it claims to champion, the middle class, working poor, and those communities that have the least access to capital. Fortunately, we have an opportunity to do something today to fix these problems.” Bipartisan Support: “This bill has 12 Democratic cosponsors and I applaud them for the courage it's taken to work with us to get a bill where both sides give and take. People back home want both sides in the Senate to work together to get things done. Here's a shining example. If we can get it across the finish line, this will have a dramatic impact on main street back home.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Trade & Tariffs On CNBC “I think you'll see a more targeted approach as we get into the details” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Becky Quick, Joe Kernen, and Larry Bossidy on CNBC’s Squawk Box about the benefits of a targeted approach to trade and tariffs. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Instincts Are Spot On: “I think President Trump's instincts have been right all along. He wants to create a more level playing field with the rest of the world. Last year, the President moved to make us more competitive by focusing on regulation, energy, and taxes. This year he wants to focus on trade, immigration, and infrastructure.” Targeted Approach: “I think you'll see a more targeted approach as we get into the details of this. This is a matrix situation as we all know. There are countries and there are product categories. Even within product categories you have to look at specific instances. President Trump is moving in the right direction.” Status Quo Is Unacceptable: “President Trump is a business guy. He moves at a business-pace not a bureaucratic-pace. I think he got frustrated with the way Washington was responding to this and frankly, the way other countries were responding to it as well. He stepped out and we've got the world's attention now. The status quo is not acceptable to this President, to me, or to anyone who comes from a business perspective.” Long-Term Plan: “I know President Trump has a long-term game plan in mind. This is not a knee-jerk reaction around steel or aluminum. This is about the global situation. NAFTA is a great example of where the President backed up and gave us time to work out the details. He did this on the border adjustment tax last year too. I was very involved in discussions with the President about why the border adjustment tax wasn’t a good idea and he agreed.” Real World: “At Reebok, we made and sold goods in dozens of countries. That's the way most of these multi-national companies are formed and the way most people are doing it today. Even small businesses make and sell in multiple countries. If we make America more competitive, we'll attract more manufacturing to the U.S., more jobs, and increase access to new markets so companies can export more.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Senator David Perdue Recognizes National Guard Youth Challenge Program 25th Anniversary Program for at-risk youth has graduated more than 16,000 Georgians WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, recognizes the 25th anniversary of the National Guard Youth Challenge Program. “First started by Georgia Senators Sam Nunn and Saxby Chambliss, this program has helped thousands of youth discover their potential and set them on the path to a successful future,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m proud of the work the National Guard Youth Challenge Program is doing here in Georgia to mentor and advocate for the next generation of leaders and our workforce.” “I’m grateful for the dedicated individuals who are supporting the Georgia Youth Challenge Academies and helping thousands of young men and women in our state turn their lives around,” said Tina Coria, Chairman of the Georgia National Guard Youth Challenge Foundation. “We are proud that this remarkably successful program got its humble roots from forward-thinking Georgians, and continues to grow thanks to the leadership of Senator Perdue.” Beginning in October 2017, the National Guard Youth Challenge Program marked its 25th anniversary with celebrations at the state and national level lasting through October 2018. The nationwide program provides free alternative education and structured discipline programs for at-risk youth between the ages of 16 and 18. Georgia’s academies, located at Ft. Stewart, Ft. Gordon and Milledgeville, have graduated more than 16,000 cadets representing all 159 counties in Georgia. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.27.2018	02.27.18 Senator David Perdue Chosen For Joint Select Committee To Fix Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, has been chosen as one of eight senators to serve on the bipartisan, bicameral Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform tasked with fixing Washington’s broken budget process. “Since I first came to the United States Senate, I’ve called for changing this failed budget process, and this is our opportunity to finally get it done,” said Senator Perdue. “Since the current budget process was established in 1974, Congress has only funded the government on time four times in the past forty-four years. As a result, our national debt is $20 trillion and headed to $30 trillion. Like I’ve said many times, fixing the budget process alone will not solve our debt crisis, but we won’t solve this debt crisis unless and until we fix our broken budget process. As a member of this important joint select committee, I look forward to making real progress towards creating a politically neutral platform so both sides can debate their issues during the budget process.” The Joint Select Committee was established by Congress on February 9, 2018 and will be composed of 16 Members of Congress: four Senate Republicans, four Senate Democrats, four House Republicans, and four House Democrats. The members will have until the end of the calendar year to agree on changes to the budget and appropriations process and present them to Congress for a vote. Senator Perdue has made it one of his top priorities to change Congress’ failed budget process. Over the past three years, he has met with policy experts, outside groups, retired Members of Congress, and his colleagues from both parties and chambers to study best practices and highlight the flaws of the current budget process. Recently, he wrote a column in The Hill calling on Congress to recognize that the current budget process will never work and it must be changed. Read more here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.27.2018	02.27.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Fixing The Budget Process At Bipartisan Summit “We're in the crisis phase, past the tipping point here” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) discuss Congress’ broken budget process at the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget’s First Annual Better Budget Process Summit. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Senator Perdue Highlights: Time For Change: “The budget process is broken. I’ve met people who actually voted for that bill in 1974 and they're calling for its revision today.” Two And A Half Bills: “Of the 12 appropriations bills, Congress has only averaged two and a half bills each year over the last 44 years and actually shut the government down 20 times in those 44 years over this issue. This is a system that does not allow for active debate. I fought hard to get on the budget committee coming from the business world thinking this is where the action is, but it's a joke.” No Longer Acceptable: “It doesn't matter which system you use to fix the budget process. You have to have consequences that are real, and that preclude the release valve that we have today which is an omnibus. After over 180 CRs in the last 44 years, we end up with an omnibus where a group of people get in a room and decide how to spend a trillion dollars. It's not acceptable anymore.” Taking The Easy Way Out: “Since 1913, the debt ceiling hasn't worked. Washington just keeps bumping it up so there's always a release valve. The release valve is more spending. You have a Democrat and Republican here saying $21 trillion of debt is not acceptable. We have to find a way to solve it. We'll differ on how to solve it and that's why we're arguing for creating a politically neutral platform during the budget process that is actually meaningful.” Top Responsibility: “I believe one of the reasons Congress has a low approval rating is because it doesn’t do its basic responsibility laid out in the Constitution, and that’s to fund the government. People back home don't understand what a CR or omnibus is.” Past The Tipping Point: “Mandatory spending has already doubled and it’s going to double again soon. That’s spending on Social Security, Medicare, pension benefits for federal employees and the interest on the debt. There's a growing realization that this is not acceptable anymore. We're in the crisis phase, past the tipping point here.” Real Crisis: “I ran on the debt. People in the political sphere said you can't run on that, but we did. In Georgia, I continue to hear people agree this is a crisis we need to do something about.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.21.2018	02.21.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Reverend Billy Graham WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the passing of Reverend Billy Graham: “Reverend Graham was truly ‘America’s pastor.’ Over his lifetime, he was instrumental in counseling numerous presidents through some of our nation’s most difficult times. His work and dedication to Christ are an inspiration to many and will not soon be forgotten. Bonnie and I join the nation in lifting up the entire Graham family in prayer during this very difficult time.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.20.2018	02.20.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Budget & Infrastructure On Kudlow Radio Show ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Larry Kudlow on The Larry Kudlow Show to discuss how Congress is working to fix the broken budget process and the importance of investing in infrastructure priorities that will provide the greatest economic return. Click here to listen or click on the image below. Responding To Florida: “This was a tragedy. We've got to find a way to close the gaps in the FBI. I'm confident Director Wray will get to the bottom of this and close the loopholes in their procedures.” Solving Debt Crisis: “The debt is what pulled me into running for Senate. What we've done on tax and what we're doing on infrastructure are investments to grow the economy. This is one part of solving the debt crisis.” Leveraging Partnerships: “When Democrats won in 2009, they poured a trillion dollars into programs that provided absolutely no stimulus and no impact on the economy. It’s another manifestation of their big government solution that the government creates jobs. President Trump wants a public-private partnership plan that multiplies every federal dollar invested with several dollars in private investments.” Greatest Return: “We have to make sure the top priorities are ones that present the greatest return on investment so they can reinvest some of those savings in the same ten-year period.” Model Example: “There are roadblocks inside the Department of Transportation. Secretary Chao is committed to getting rid of those. A great example was right in my state. We had a burned highway system, right in the middle of downtown Atlanta. It would have normally taken 2-3 years to replace that part of the highway. However, they got it done in 4 months because Secretary Chao and President Trump waived all the restrictions imposed by the federal government.” Silver Lining: “There is a silver lining in the funding bill that was passed two weeks ago. It called for the creation of a Joint Select Committee, made up of 16 Republicans and Democrats from both the Senate and the House. The purpose is to find a solution to the broken budget system and present it to Congress before the end of the year. I have been asking for this for three years.” Creating Consequences: “The first objective of the Joint Select Committee is to get to a politically neutral platform and develop a set of consequences if Congress doesn’t get a budget or funding done on time. Sequestration was the wrong way to go. Democrats and Republicans have seen this process doesn't favor either side but creates the atmosphere for a lack of control.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.16.2018	02.16.18 Senators Isakson, Perdue Comment On Nominations Of Two U.S. Marshals For Georgia Bittick nominated to Middle District, Lyons to Southern District WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statements regarding President Trump’s announcement of his intent to nominate two longtime law enforcement officers to fill two of Georgia’s U.S. Marshal vacancies. President Trump intends to nominate John Cary Bittick of Forsyth, GA, as U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Georgia and David L. Lyons of Savannah, GA, as U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Georgia. “Our U.S. Marshals provide critical protection for our citizens and support for our justice system,” said Senator Isakson. “These two Georgians are well-qualified and excellent choices for these demanding roles. I look forward to assisting them with their Senate confirmation process.” “Georgia is home to some of the most impressive law enforcement officers in the nation,” said Senator Perdue. “I applaud President Trump on nominating John Cary Bittick and David Lyons, they will serve our nation well and make Georgia proud.” The White House press release on the announcement can be found here. ###
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Immigration Votes “Senate Democrats crushed the dreams of many people who were counting on them to deliver” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate’s failure to pass the Secure and Succeed Act, which mirrors President Trump’s bipartisan immigration framework: “Senate Democrats have shown their true colors. First, they shut down the government over DACA. Today, they had an opportunity to vote to provide certainty for 1.8 million DACA recipients and they voted no. Senate Democrats said they wanted a bipartisan solution, but really they don’t. Senate Democrats said they want to secure our border, but really they don’t. Today, Senate Democrats crushed the dreams of many people who were counting on them to deliver and showed they are quite happy to have an immigration system that does not serve the American people or protect our national security.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration Debate On PBS & NPR WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Judy Woodruff on PBS NewsHour and Ari Shapiro on NPR’s All Things Considered about the Secure and Succeed Act, legislation he has co-sponsored that mirrors President Trump’s immigration framework which resolves DACA, strengthens border security, eliminates the visa lottery, and ends extended-family chain migration. Click here to watch the PBS interview or click on the image below. Highlights: Growing Support: “We've had 30 years of debate on the immigration issue. Democrats and Republicans at various points in time actually supported the principles laid out by President Trump in this bill. There has actually been late-coming support for this proposal. Senator Alexander and Senator Isakson have endorsed this bill.” President’s Support: “President Trump has endorsed this proposal. We're hopeful others will see the framework the President laid out—and what we have in this bill—actually meets the needs the Democrats have been asking for.” Ending Incentives: “Three or four of the principles President Trump is talking about have general agreement. There is room on both sides of the issue of family-based immigration for us to get the solution we are all looking for, to end the environment that incentivizes people to bring their young children here which created the DACA situation. This would also allow us to close loopholes that let terrorists use our immigration system against us.” Common Solution: “President Trump has been very clear for a long time about his position. He wants a solution to the problem that caused the DACA situation and he wants the DACA situation resolved. He's gone further than any Republican ever thought that he would. We support that and believe there is enough commonality in the Senate that if everyone looks at these different principles, we'll be able to get to a common solution.” Click here to listen to the NPR interview or click on the image below. Highlights: Permanent Solutions: “President Trump stepped in and said let’s resolve the DACA problem by giving these young people a pathway and certainty. He also said we don’t want to be back here in four or five years doing the same thing with another generation of people who were brought in illegally.” Providing Certainty: “This is a very good solution for the DACA population. It also provides certainty for the future of our borders and fixes the archaic, 50-year old immigration system that has not served us economically or socially.” Balanced Deal: “I’m an outsider, a business guy, and I’ve done big deals before. Deals that get done have to be symmetric. This deal is symmetric. When you look at the DACA solution and then a way to end the things that created it, this becomes a very balanced proposition.” Getting Past Politics: “At different points in the past, Democrats and Republicans have agreed to each facet of our bill that’s before the Senate today. If Congress can put partisan politics aside, I think we’ve got a proposition that could get done. I think at the end of the day it will.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Senator David Perdue: This Is A Reasonable Solution “President Trump has repeatedly said that the Secure and Succeed Act is the only bill he will sign into law” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the floor of the U.S. Senate about the Secure and Succeed Act, legislation he has co-sponsored that mirrors President Trump’s immigration framework which resolves DACA, strengthens border security, eliminates the visa lottery, and ends extended-family chain migration. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Solves Problem: “President Trump, while offering a generous solution for DACA recipients, has proposed a solution to our legal immigration system that will ensure we're not back here in just a few short years dealing with the same problem again.” Only Option: “President Trump has repeatedly said that the Secure and Succeed Act is the only bill he will sign into law.” Middle Ground: “This proposal follows the framework President Trump has laid out. It makes compromises on both sides of this issue. It deals with the DACA situation, secures the border, and fixes critical flaws in our immigration system that incentivize illegal immigration today, such as ending chain migration and the visa lottery.” Bipartisan Support: “There's no reason other than politics for the Secure and Succeed Act to not have widespread, bipartisan support. Each part of the proposal has been supported by Democrats at various points over the last 30 years.” Historic Opportunity: “I believe we have a historic opportunity right now to do something that people in this body have wanted to do for a long time, and that is to solve our legal immigration system in a fair way that will benefit every American. We have to deal with these issues in a responsible and fair way. Politicians have talked about this for far too long.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.14.2018	02.14.18 Senator David Perdue Asks OMB Director About SHEP Funding Specifics WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a Senate Budget Committee hearing yesterday, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) asked Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney how the Trump Administration plans to prioritize infrastructure projects that provide the greatest return on investment, like the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project: Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: Senator Perdue: “In states like Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey, their ports are trying to accommodate the new Panamax ships that would dramatically improve our ability to compete around the world. I believe those investments are caught up in the Army Corps of Engineers budget being cut but are not being moved over to the infrastructure investments in the President’s budget. These port investments actually offer a higher rate of return than some of the infrastructure investments I think we’ve contemplated. Can you address that?” Director Mulvaney: “At the risk of making a small correction, we absolutely anticipate that the deep-water ports will be part of the infrastructure bill. In fact, the largest part of the infrastructure bill, 50 percent of the $200 billion, $100 billion, is in our mind set aside for programs that can contribute their own portion of the funding. As you know, the Port of Savannah is exactly that. We specifically had the deep-water ports in mind when we fashioned the infrastructure bill.” Senator Perdue: “Good. That’s comforting.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Senators Perdue, Isakson, & Rep. Carter Invite Administration To Port Of Savannah WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA) invite President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to visit the Port of Savannah to see first-hand fastest-growing port in the country and learn more about the on-going expansion project. “The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is one of the most important infrastructure projects in the country with the largest return on investment of any project the Army Corps of Engineers is currently managing,” said Senator Perdue. “We personally invite President Trump and Vice President Pence to come visit the Port of Savannah and see for themselves why the fastest-growing port in the country is the greatest leverage to our nation’s economic growth. As a business guy, I’ve seen the value of investing in projects that will provide an economic return. It’s critical we continue fighting to prioritize our investment in this top infrastructure project that helps our country compete globally.” Completion of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project will have a significant impact on our country’s economy, especially the Southeast region of the country. To move the project forward, Senator Perdue continues to work with the Georgia delegation to increase federal support and cooperation with local and state government. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration & Debt On CNN WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Alisyn Camerota on CNN’s New Day about the immigration debate in the U.S. Senate and our country’s debt crisis. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Put Politics Aside: “This is a historic opportunity to finally fix this broken immigration system. The tenants laid out in the President’s framework are all things both parties have supported at various times over the last 30 years. I hope we can put aside partisan politics and get to the real issues that two-thirds of Americans want us to solve in the manner the President has laid out.” Common Ground: “I’m not sure this proposal won’t get bipartisan support. There’ll be several possibilities this week. We hope to get a vote on the President's framework.” Good Policy: “Nobody wants to create a problem for these young people. That’s why President Trump has laid out this proposal. I don't think he's been given enough credit for how far he went. This is a proposal that extremes on both sides look at and say it goes too far in the other direction. That tells me we're pretty close to having a structure that’s a good compromise and should be done.” No Innocent Parties: “Washington has a budget process that is absolutely broken. The silver lining of the funding bill we did last week is that it creates a select committee to fix this broken budget process. There are no innocent parties in Washington.” Tackling The Debt: “There are things you can do to get at this debt crisis over the next 20 years. We have to first grow the economy. President Trump moved on that last year. Second, you have to cut out redundant agencies and wasteful spending. Third, you’ve got to fix the budget process. Fourth, you have to save, not cut, Social Security and Medicare whose trust funds go to zero over the next 16 years.” Investing In Turnarounds: “There is investment spending that has to be done in any turnaround. I've been in big turnarounds in my life in the business community. You have to invest in the things that will provide an economic return. That's what's being done right now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration Latest On Fox News “We have a bill the President would sign and assure we aren’t back here again in a few years” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Tucker Carlson on Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson Tonight about the Secure and Succeed Act, legislation he has co-sponsored that mirrors President Trump’s immigration framework which resolves DACA, strengthens border security, eliminates the visa lottery, and ends extended-family chain migration. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Continuing The Conversation: “This actually started a year ago when Tom Cotton and I began the conversation with the RAISE Act. We have an opportunity now to fix the immigration system. When President Trump decided a couple months ago that President Obama had done the incorrect thing by taking executive action on DACA, President Trump put it back on the plate of Congress to solve.” Following The Framework: “We’ve been working feverishly on the priorities President Trump laid out a few weeks ago when he had Republicans and Democrats at the White House discussing how to fix the legal immigration system. That’s where we are with this proposal.” Broad Support: “This proposal is supported by the American people. Two-thirds of Americans want to solve the DACA situation. They also want border security with a wall, end of chain migration, and the end of the visa lottery. Over 70% believe immigration should be based on the worker and the immediate family alone. We have a bill the President would sign and assure we aren’t back here again in a few years.” Bipartisan Ideas: “It will be really interesting to see if Democrats vote against this solution which they’ve called for before. Over the last 30 years, Democrats have asked for these same facets the President has outlined in this framework.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President’s Budget “We need to see a serious commitment to solving this debt crisis and creating a stable fiscal future for our country” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on the release of President Trump’s budget for fiscal year 2019: “Since coming to the United States Senate, I’ve been warning that because of our debt crisis we are losing the right to do the right thing in funding our country’s priorities. Last week’s funding situation and this budget underscores just how broken our budget process has become. We have reached the point where if we do not make serious changes to our large and growing entitlement programs, we will never be able to balance our budget. President Trump has been successful in turning around the economy and removing excess regulations. We have already passed the tipping point, but this has bought us some time. No matter which party is in control in Washington, we need to see a serious commitment to solving this debt crisis and creating a stable fiscal future for our country.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.12.2018	02.12.18 Senator David Perdue: President Trump Is Beginning To Rebuild Our Nation’s Infrastructure “We need a smart approach to prioritize and leverage significant economic development projects like they do in the real world” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s plan to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure: “When he was elected, President Trump said job one was growing the economy. In 2017, he focused on reducing regulations, unleashing our energy potential, and cutting taxes. In 2018, President Trump wants to move to immigration, trade, and infrastructure. He is now beginning to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. We need a smart approach to prioritize and leverage significant economic development projects like they do in the real world. We need to streamline federal, state, and local cooperation and remove regulatory roadblocks so we can get the greatest return on investment for taxpayers. In Georgia, we saw this approach in action when the I-85 bridge collapsed and was repaired a month ahead of schedule. We need to replicate that efficiency on a larger scale so we can increase productivity and ultimately update our nation’s infrastructure network to support additional growth.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.12.2018	02.12.18 Senator David Perdue: Congress Has A Chance To Put Aside Partisanship “There is no reason why reasonable people in Congress can’t get together and get behind this” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Tom Cotton (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and James Lankford (R-OK) today introduced the Secure and Succeed Act, legislation that mirrors President Trump’s immigration framework which resolves DACA, strengthens border security, eliminates the visa lottery, and ends extended-family chain migration. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Reasonable Approach: “What we have right now is a President who has reached out to the other side and put forth a very reasonable framework. There is no reason why reasonable people in Congress can’t get together and get behind this.” Focusing The Scope: “Three times in the last 11 years alone, Congress has failed to solve the immigration problem for one reason. They tried to solve every facet of it at once. What we’re trying to do now is simply deal with one part of the immigration system: the legal immigration side.” Real Opportunity: “We have a unique set of circumstances here that allow us to prevent the things that caused this to happen in the first place and that’s secure our borders, eliminate the linked chain migration, and end the visa lottery system.” Set Aside Partisanship: “What we have right now is a chance for Congress to put aside partisanship and do something good for America. This isn’t just something that helps the DACA participants but also helps our economy and the future of our country for our kids and grandkids.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.12.2018	02.12.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On Iran’s Attack On Israel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on Iran’s attack on Israel over the weekend: “Israel is America’s closest ally and security partner in the Middle East. Make no mistake, Israel has the absolute right to defend itself in the face of growing regional threats. Iran and Hezbollah are taking advantage of Syria’s deterioration by controlling Syrian military bases and escalating violence on Israel’s border. Iran’s decision to send a drone into Israeli airspace this weekend was reckless, and this behavior will not be tolerated. America stands shoulder to shoulder with Israel, with unwavering support and resolve.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.11.2018	02.11.18 Senators To Introduce Bill Mirroring President's Immigration Framework WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of U.S. Senators tomorrow will introduce a common-sense proposal aimed at providing legal certainty for undocumented children brought to the United States by their parents and preventing others from falling into the same legal limbo in the future. Their proposal, which mirrors the White House framework announced by President Trump, provides a generous opportunity for approximately 1.8 million DACA or DACA-eligible immigrants to earn citizenship while strengthening our nation’s border security and enforcement measures to reduce illegal immigration. The Secure and Succeed Act, sponsored by Senators Perdue, Grassley, Cornyn, Tillis, Lankford, Cotton and Ernst, appropriates $25 billion for real border security such as physical and virtual fencing, radar and other technologies. It also provides for additional personnel for border control and ends key loopholes in current law that allow dangerous criminals to enter our country. The legislation prospectively limits family-based immigration to the nuclear family and reallocates the Diversity Visa lottery. Their proposal generously grandfathers all pending family-based visa applications in order to reward those who chose to follow the law and immigrate legally. The allotment for the Diversity Visa lottery will be reallocated to reduce this backlog and the employment-based visa backlog. “President Trump has been very clear on what he will sign into law, and this is it," said Senator Perdue. "This is a great deal and the only solution that fully addresses the four pillars in the President’s framework. Now it is up to Republicans and Democrats in both chambers. If people really want to solve the DACA situation, secure our border, and fix the flaws in our current system that incentivize illegal immigration, they should be eager to support this plan." ”This legislation is a reasonable approach to shielding children illegally brought to our country through no fault of their own while also taking the meaningful steps to ensure nobody finds themselves in the same situation in the future," said Senator Grassley. "This is a rare opportunity to fix a real problem and protect the country in a thoughtful and compassionate way. We simply have to correct the loopholes in current law that allow dangerous criminals to enter and remain at large in our country. Our proposal is supported by the President, who’s come a long way to reach a compromise. This is the only Senate proposal that has any chance of passing the House and being signed into law. If my colleagues are serious about actually finding a real and permanent solution to the DACA crisis, they should be ready and willing to support this compromise." “This proposal provides a common-sense, permanent solution for nearly two million people who find themselves in limbo," said Senator Cornyn. "The Secure and Succeed Act gives us the opportunity to help these individuals and build the trust of the American people by securing our borders and enforcing our immigration laws." “This is a common-sense compromise that accomplishes a number of goals that both parties have long supported," said Senator Tillis. "It offers a fair and compassionate solution for DACA youth to earn naturalization, and it effectively secures our borders to help prevent future illegal immigration and stop drug and human trafficking. It also provides a path forward for modernizing our broken immigration system so it can be more merit-based and reflective of the changing economic and labor needs of our nation. This legislation is the only proposal that the President supports, and the open amendment process will give Senators the opportunity to improve the baseline proposal and get it signed into law." “We have a unique opportunity to finally get something done on the four immigration areas that leaders in Congress and the President agreed must get done - DACA, border security, the visa lottery, and family sponsorship reform," said Senator Lankford. "It’s important to do this in a way that prevents repeating this conversation again ten years from now. I call on my colleagues to put aside partisanship and posturing to have an honest debate about decades-long immigration issues and practical solutions that can pass both Houses of Congress and be signed into law. There are many immigration proposals being floated in the Senate that the House will not pass and the President won’t sign. Too many families are counting on us to do the right thing. Now is the time to get this done." “This is the only bill that has a chance of becoming law, and that’s because it’s the only bill that will truly solve the underlying problem," said Senator Cotton. "It will protect those eligible for DACA but also make sure we don’t end up back here five years from now. By addressing our border security needs and limiting family sponsorship to the nuclear family, it goes far beyond the other half measures that have been proposed. This bill is generous, humane, and responsible, and now we should send it to the president’s desk." "We must ensure a path forward for those who were brought here through no fault of their own as children, while also enforcing our laws, putting an end to illegal immigration, and strengthening our border security," said Senator Ernst. "This framework is a step toward addressing the legal, economic, and security concerns that are present in the current debate and the unique challenges that the DACA-eligible population faces, and I urge my colleagues to support this proposal." The Secure and Succeed Act includes the four reform pillars agreed to during a bipartisan meeting with congressional leaders and President Trump in January: legal status for DACA recipients; increased border security; an end chain to migration; and an end to the diversity visa lottery. For more on the legislation see the Summary.
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Senator David Perdue Applauds Georgians Participating In 2018 Olympics ATLANTA, GA – As the 2018 Winter Olympic Games begin in Pyeongchang, South Korea, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds and encourages the Georgia athletes representing Team USA. “Team USA’s Olympic athletes are extremely impressive. Throughout their years of training, these athletes have overcome countless obstacles and demonstrated relentless dedication, courage, and perseverance. They are an inspiration to all Americans,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgia is proud to be home to two of Team USA’s athletes, Chris and Elana, and Bonnie and I look forward to cheering them on as they compete on the world stage.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Senator David Perdue Applauds Agreement To Change Broken Budget Process House & Senate Establish Joint Committee To Change Congress’ Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds the formation of a Joint Select Committee to change Congress’ broken budget process, something he has worked toward for years. Leader McConnell and Speaker Ryan now have 14 days to appoint 16 people from both parties and both chambers to serve on the Joint Select Committee, which will then have until the end of the calendar year to draft changes to the budget process and present them to Congress for a vote. “The current budget process will never work,” said Senator Perdue. “Since the budget process was established in 1974, Congress has only funded the government on time four times in the past forty-four years. As a result, our national debt is $20 trillion. Changing the budget process will not solve the debt crisis, but we will not solve the debt crisis until we change Congress’ broken budget process. The plan passed by the U.S. Senate today finally establishes a select committee that will work towards fixing the broken budget process. I’m extremely excited that we now have support in the House and Senate to finally implement a budget process that funds the government on time. For years, I’ve called for changing this failed budget process, and this is our opportunity to finally get it done.” There is overwhelming consensus in the United States Senate that the current budget process is not working as designed. Here’s what senators from both parties have been saying: Senator Steve Daines (R-MT): “The biggest hurdle to balancing the budget are the very rules, the very process that guides this institution. They are broken…We came here not to accept the status quo but to reject it, and to change the way this country operates truly to save the future of our kids and our grandkids.” Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI): “Only four times in the past 43 years has this budget process actually funded the federal government. Finding common ground to develop a real budget should be a bipartisan effort, and that’s why we’re fighting to fix it.” Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK): “A lot of us ran for office – a lot of us for the first time – because we saw what is going on with this budget process…We have all been working on this for months this is what we need to do to finally get ahold of these enormous budget challenges. I want to encourage all of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to join in this process to bring your ideas to fix what is clearly a broken process.” Senator John Thune (R-SD): “Congress has the constitutional responsibility to fund the government, and when it comes to the current congressional budget process, I’m not a fan. It’s broken, and it needs to be reformed.” Senator Bob Corker (R-TN): “We really don’t have a budget process. I mean to even call what we do a budget, per most human beings’ understanding of what a budget is, is obviously not realistic…We have to, in essence, get a process in place that actually works. It’s impossible for the process we have today to work. Today, is a perfect example of that, right?” Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID): “I think Americans also understand after watching this for years now that we have processes in place today that virtually make it impossible for us as a Congress to get our hands on the issue and make the tough decisions that will help us to achieve fiscal responsibility.” Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA): “It's clear that Congress’ current budgeting and appropriations process is broken.” Senator Angus King (I-ME): “For 20 years, Congress hasn’t had a budget on time. Instead, we’ve opted to kick difficult decisions a little bit further down the road through continuing resolutions, leaving important priorities unfinished.” Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY): “I don’t get invited many places to speak because I talk about the budget process and it depresses people. But it’s about time that we got depressed over the budget and got some changes.” Senator James Lankford (R-OK): “The budget process is out of control and must be dramatically reformed. Agencies cannot plan, business leaders cannot forecast expenses for the next year and the economy is grinding to a halt. To achieve a better budget product, we must have a better budget process.” Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD): “We have to begin the process of fixing this broken [budget] system and we need to begin now. In 2026, our country turns 250 years old. Wouldn’t it be a marvelous goal if by that time we not only had this process fixed, but it was actually working once again?” Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA): “We can’t keep spending money we don’t have on things that aren’t necessary. Washington can’t even do the basic business of balancing our own budget…It might just take a complete overhaul of Washington’s ways to help us solve this problem.” Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE): “Washington’s budget process is broken and everyone in Nebraska knows it. This has to change or there’s always going to be another cliff, another countdown, and another Washington-driven crisis.” Senator Gary Peters (D-MI): “Our broken budget process needlessly shortchanges the effectiveness of federal programs through a never-ending cycle of short-term continuing resolutions and omnibus spending bills that create budget crises and keep the Government perpetually at the edge of a shutdown.” Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA): “Congress should also pass a fiscally responsible budget with a number of important reforms to the disastrous budget process.” Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD): “Going from C.R. to C.R… results in wasteful spending at the Defense Department and has negative consequences for our defense.” Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT): "Enough is enough. We cannot continue to run a $4 trillion government on a month to month basis.” Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD): "Our concern is we need a budget for the country. We are now four months into the fiscal year and we've been told by [government agencies] they cannot continue working with continuing resolutions, they have to have a budget in order for our country to function and there was no end in sight.” Senator Mark Warner (D-VA): “Our current budget process is broken. Time and time again Congress resorts to passing continuing resolutions and omnibus bills at the last minute instead of properly examining and debating our federal spending.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Senator David Perdue: Select Committee To Change Budget Process Finally Established “We won’t solve this debt crisis unless and until we fix our broken budget process” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate passing a government funding agreement that also establishes a select committee to change its broken budget process: “This funding agreement provides for our military to help recover from a decade of disinvestment but it also significantly adds to our national debt. We are past the tipping point in this debt crisis and it is costing us the ability to do the right thing. However, there is a silver lining in this plan. It finally establishes a select committee to address our broken budget process. Fixing the budget process alone will not solve our debt crisis, but we won’t solve this debt crisis unless and until we fix our broken budget process. This select committee is our opportunity to finally develop a process that works.” Senator Perdue has been calling on Congress to change its budget process for years, and recently published an op-ed in The Hill about how this failed budget process will never work. Read the op-ed here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.07.2018	02.07.18 Growing Number Of Georgia Businesses, Workers Benefiting From Tax Cuts Georgia employees seeing bonuses, pay raises, other benefits thanks to tax code changes backed by Isakson, Perdue ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted a growing number of Georgia businesses and workers who are seeing a positive impact from the historic tax cuts signed into law only seven weeks ago. More than 3 million Americans have already received bonuses, wage hikes or 401(k) match increases, including Georgia employees at the businesses below (listed alphabetically): Aflac (Columbus, GA) – Increased 401(k) match from 50 percent to 100 percent on the first 4 percent of compensation plus one-time $500 contribution to every employee’s 401(k); $250 million increase in overall U.S. investment. Read more here. "We are pleased that these tax reforms provide Aflac with an opportunity to increase our investments in initiatives that reflect our company values; providing for our employees in the long and short term, ensuring future growth for our company and giving back to the community." –Dan Amos, Aflac Chairman and CEO AR-15 Gun Owners of America (Warner Robins, GA) – Bonuses and increased salaries for all employees. Read more here. AT&T Southeast/BellSouth Telecommunications (Atlanta, GA) – Announced it would give more than 200,000 employees a special bonus of $1,000 and invest an additional $1 billion in the U.S. Read more here. Carl Black Automotive Group (Kennesaw, GA) – Bonuses to more than 500 employees. Read more here. Expanded Technologies, Inc. (Marietta, GA) – Minimum bonuses of $500 for each employee and additional cash depending on length of service. Read more here. “As a result of the Tax Cut and Job Act recently enacted by the Trump Administration, we are pleased to announce that ETI will give each of its 77 employees a bonus of $500 cash along with an additional sum for each year of service." –Jean-Luc Liverato, Expanded Technologies, Inc. Home Depot (Atlanta, GA) – Bonuses of up to $1,000 for every hourly employee. Read more here. "We are pleased to be able to provide this additional reward to our associates for continuing to deliver outstanding customer service. This incremental investment in our associates was made possible by the new tax reform bill." –Craig Menear, Home Depot Chairman, CEO and President Lockheed Martin Corp. (Marietta, GA) - Plans to contribute $5 billion in cash toward its pensions and increase its commitment to initiatives such as employee training, charitable contributions for education in science and math, and the Lockheed Martin Ventures fund by $200 million. Read more here. Mincey Marble (Gainesville, GA) – Bonuses of up to $1,000 based on length of service. Read more here. “As the owner of a family business, I want to share how tax reform is benefitting Americans at every level. Companies big and small are passing along tax savings to the workers who help build our economy. I hope that the bonuses Mincey Marble is providing encourage other businesses in our great state to pay it forward, because the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the kind of meaningful change that can help transform communities by bringing relief to American workers and families." –Donna Mincey, Mincey Marble President and CEO Shred-X (Griffin, GA) – Plans to use the additional savings from tax reform to purchase a new truck and hire a new employee at their company of ten people. Read more here. “This is just one practical example of how tax reform is helping us here on Main Street.” –Cade Joiner, Shred-X owner Starbucks Coffee Company (Augusta, GA) – Reaffirmed its commitment to add an additional 500 manufacturing jobs at its Augusta, Georgia, soluble coffee plant, where a $120 million expansion is planned for 2019; also announced new raises and benefits totaling $250 million and 8,500 new jobs nationwide. Read more here. SunTrust Banks, Inc. (Atlanta, GA) – Base wage increases to $15 per hour; $50 million in additional community grants; merit pay raise; additional 401(k) contributions; etc. Read more here. "The anticipated benefits from tax reform allow us to build upon our purpose of Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being in a sustainable way by implementing actions that will have a multi-year impact for many of the constituents that count on us. We believe tax reform will improve the competitiveness of American business and promote economic growth, and this gives us confidence to invest more in our company, our teammates and the communities we serve." –Bill Rogers, SunTrust Chairman and CEO Synovus Financial Corporation (Columbus, GA) – $1,000 bonuses to all non-executive employees. Read more here. Total System Services (Columbus, GA) – $1,000 bonuses for 11,500 employees. Read more here. “A spokesperson for the Columbus, Ga.-based credit card processor best known as TSYS told Atlanta Business Chronicle that it made an internal announcement Tuesday that team members would receive a ‘special one-time cash bonus of $1,000’ as ‘a result of the company’s continued success and the recently passed U.S. tax reform legislation.’” UPS (Atlanta, GA) – $12 billion in investments to expand the company's Smart Logistics Network and increase employee pensions. Read more here. "We applaud President Trump and Congress for their bold action to improve the U.S. economy. Our investments will create new jobs, secure existing jobs and expand opportunities for our people. We are committed to remaining a preferred employer by continuing to provide industry-leading compensation and excellent career opportunities." –David Abney, UPS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Yancey Bros. (Austell, GA) – $500 bonuses for 1,200 employees. Read more here. ###
02.01.2018	02.01.18 Senator David Perdue Speaks With PBS NewsHour’s Judy Woodruff WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Judy Woodruff on PBS NewsHour about an array of issues that lie ahead in 2018. Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights: Infrastructure Investments: “The only way Chuck Schumer is going to get infrastructure financing done without including private companies is by creating more taxes, and we know what that does to the economy. We’ve got examples right now, like Power Africa. The U.S. State Department invested $8 billion and attracted $48 billion in a public-private partnership that will bring power to Africa for the next decade. We have the same opportunities in the United States.” Deterring Bad Actors: “We've got to be very serious with not only Russia but also North Korea, Iran, and other nefarious actors around the world today. They need to know we're serious about messing with our election process. This is a democracy. That won't be tolerated. Republicans and Democrats agree on that.” Concluding Investigations: “I'm anxious to get these intelligence committee investigations done, and to get the independent investigation over and done with. I think we need to get past this. We've been doing this almost a year now.” Upping Pressure: “There's no question we need more serious sanctions against Iran and North Korea. So the calculus here is, is Russia going to help us with North Korea? Are they going to respond to sanctions from the President? We'll see very quickly.” Results Driven: “This President does not fit the mold of the traditional Washington establishment president. He's an outsider. He's a business guy. I'm not worried about popularity polls. I'm worried about results. Right now his agenda is providing those results. The work we did on regulation last year, the work we did on energy and taxes are producing results. That's not lost on people in my state and across the country.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.31.2018	01.31.18 Senator David Perdue Reacts To State Of The Union On Fox Business “It takes someone outside of the Washington establishment to get all of this done” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Fox Business Network’s The Intelligence Report and Mornings With Maria about President Trump’s first State of the Union address. Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights from The Intelligence Report: The Outsider Effect: “It takes someone outside of Washington to get all of this done. That is why the Washington establishment, in particular the Democratic establishment, doesn’t know what to make of President Trump. He is an outsider, a business guy moving at a business pace. They don't know what to do with that.” Driven By Results: “President Trump wants results just like last year. Now we see the aftermath of that in the economy. Two and a half million new jobs have been created, 860 regulations and rules reversed, and consumer confidence at an all-time high. We have to continue that through this year with infrastructure, immigration, and trade.” Instinctively In Line: “Two weeks ago, we saw how out of touch Democrats are with the American people when they shut down the government over DACA. Two-thirds of Americans want to solve the DACA situation, but they also want to end chain migration and the visa lottery, while supporting border security with a wall. President Trump has been instinctively in line with the American people.” Brilliant Move: “It shows you a little bit of the genius of this President. He put an immigration framework out there, and is daring Democrats to vote against it.” Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights from Mornings With Maria: Rare Opportunity: “This is the best chance we've had to fix our archaic immigration system. This President went out on a limb and laid out a brilliant framework that we believe should get Democratic support.” Ensuring Certainty: “President Trump said before he wants to give DACA recipients certainty. The only reason this makes sense is if you close the door on the possibility of this happening again. To do that you have to have border security and you have to build a wall and end chain migration and the visa lottery. If you do all of that, then this is a conservative solution to a 50-year problem.” Partisan Divide: “What’s troubling to me was that we had so many Democrats sitting on their hands last night. It was very noticeable even on things that we all agree on. That does not bode well for their claim that they want a bipartisan effort on immigration.” Big Government Fails: “This is what happens when big government doesn’t work. These ‘great’ federal programs, like the War on Poverty and the Great Society have all failed. So what happens is people out there in the real world step up and take care of their people. Look at Walmart, they’re giving a $5,000 bonus to people who want to adopt a child.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s State Of The Union Address “Tonight, President Trump delivered a message of optimism that all Americans need to hear.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) made the following statement after President Trump delivered his first State of the Union address to the nation: “Tonight, President Trump delivered a message of optimism that all Americans need to hear. Overall, the president’s first year in office has been nothing short of a huge success. The results speak for themselves. The economy is on the cusp of a turnaround, we’ve had two quarters of 3% growth, Americans are seeing the benefits of the tax cuts, 2.4 million new jobs have been created, and 860 rules and regulations have been reversed. “Americans now have an outsider, business guy in the White House for a change. He is moving at a business-pace, not a bureaucratic-pace. His focus continues to be delivering on his promises and getting results for the American people. “As he laid out tonight, rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, strengthening our military, negotiating fair trade deals, and fixing our broken immigration system are all big ticket items we need to tackle. While Americans have witnessed great success, there is still much to do. I believe in the President’s agenda and I am committed to helping him continue delivering results for Georgians and the American people.”
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Senator David Perdue Pushes Conservative Approach To Solving Immigration Problems WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Laura Ingraham on Fox News Channel’s The Ingraham Angle about President Trump’s immigration framework. Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights: Starting Point: “A year ago, Tom Cotton and I started with a very conservative approach to solve the legal immigration problem once and for all. We warned about the visa lottery and we said we needed an end to chain migration.” Americans Agree: “Two-thirds of Americans want to end chain migration and the visa lottery, fix the DACA problem, and build that wall to make our border secure.” Reasonable Framework: “President Trump has laid out a framework that is ingenious. We will find out if people on both sides are really serious about solving this immigration problem. I think we have the framework to actually get it done.” Conservative Wins: “The President wants an end to DACA, but he has also given conservatives what he promised—a safer and securer border with a wall, an end to chain migration, which is what’s caused us to be here, and an end to the security issues with the visa lottery.” Eyes On The Prize: “We conservatives have to keep our eyes on the prize, and the prize is ending the problems that got us here in the first place.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.29.2018	01.29.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration Framework On Fox News “In its entirety, it’s a great solution for America.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Steve Doocy on Fox News Channel’s Fox and Friends about President Trump’s immigration framework. Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights: Aligning With Americans: “The President has been instinctive all along with the American people. This immigration framework he laid out last week is in total alignment with what the American people want.” Moving The Ball Forward: “The President has hit a brilliant sweet spot here, and I can’t imagine why Democrats or any Republican wouldn’t support this framework, because it solves the four basic elements laid out a few weeks ago.” Providing Certainty: “This framework provides certainty for the DACA population and eliminates the cause that got us here in the first place. It provides border security with the wall, ends chain migration, and absolutely ends the diversity visa lottery.” Establishing Middle Ground: “The President knows how to negotiate. He’s got a career proving he knows how to do that. What he established here is the middle ground that solves the four basic areas that Democrats have said they wanted at various times in the past, and what Republicans said they want.” Acting In Best Interest: “If both sides look at this framework in its entirety, the only reason—and as an outsider I can see this pretty clearly—people would avoid voting for this is because of political self-interest. If you look at it in its entirety, it’s a great solution for America.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.27.2018	01.27.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Tax & Immigration On Kudlow Radio Show “President Trump has been instinctively in line with the American people on immigration all along” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Larry Kudlow on The Larry Kudlow Show to discuss how President Trump’s agenda has been instinctively in line with the American people, particularly on tax and immigration. Click here to listen or click on the image below. Starting Point: “A year ago, Tom Cotton and I started the conversation about fixing our legal immigration system, when we introduced the RAISE Act. This would move us to a merit-based immigration system, similar to that of Canada and Australia.” Brilliant Move: “President Trump issued a brilliant framework for an immigration middle ground. I think he has been instinctively in line with the American people on immigration all along. Two-thirds of America want a DACA solution, but only if you provide for border security with a wall, end chain migration, and end the visa lottery.” Real Opportunity: “When will conservatives ever have this kind of opportunity to solve the causes of the immigration problems we have now, including ending chain migration? Also, if Democrats are serious about solving DACA, how can they be against this reasonable solution the President laid out?” Americans Agree: “Chuck Schumer offered up $25 billion for a wall. That tells me that Democrats are now admitting Americans want border security. They are seeing these polls showing that up to 80% of Americans want a wall. They know we need border security. President Trump isn’t going to give in on that point.” Providing Certainty: “The President has done the right thing and put this back in the lap of Congress, which is where it should have been. President Obama just kicked the can down the road by providing temporary status. President Trump has said he’ll offer certainty for the DACA recipients.” Solving Underlying Problem: “We want to ensure we aren’t back here in five years with the same problem. To do that we have to secure the border with a wall, end chain migration, and eliminate the outdated visa lottery.” Economy Responding: “The more people and American companies we see responding positively to the tax bill, the more this is a generational change that will be simulative for our economy.” Tremendous Impact: “We’ve had eight years of the federal government with its boot on the neck of small businesses with overregulation and policies that were anti-business. When you take that off, that has a tremendous impact.” Assuring Our Allies: “Around the world they see an America reengaging after 8 years of disengagement. In Davos, President Trump said, ‘America first doesn’t mean America alone.’ I think that is sending a strong message to our allies and others around the world.”
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Senator David Perdue Congratulates Blue Ridge Student On Graduation From Senate Page Program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today attended Evelyn Doss’s graduation ceremony from the United States Senate Page Program. Evelyn is a high school junior from Blue Ridge, Georgia, and the first page Senator Perdue has appointed to the program. Click here to download a high-resolution image. “Congratulations to Evelyn on her graduation from the Senate Page Program,” said Senator Perdue. “During her time in our nation’s capital, Evelyn witnessed many historic moments, showed a disciplined work ethic, and represented Georgia extremely well. Evelyn is an impressive young leader, and I look forward to hearing about the great things she will do in the future.” Evelyn is a student at Fannin County High School and participates in student government, mock trial, and drama club. She is also a member of the National Honor Society and plays the flute in her school’s band. Click here to watch Senator Perdue interview Evelyn on Facebook Live about her experience in the U.S. Senate Page Program. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Senator David Perdue: We Must Stand In Solidarity To Protect The Unborn WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the United States Senate’s action to bring the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act to the Senate floor for a vote: “Just last week, Georgians and Americans from all over the country traveled to our nation’s capital to express their support for protecting the unborn. We have a moral obligation to fight on behalf of those who can’t fight for themselves. As a father and grandfather, I have witnessed the miracle of life and cannot imagine anyone not wanting to protect the life of an unborn child. In just a few days, the Senate will vote to end late-term abortions, and I sincerely hope that everyone in Congress will unite and stand in solidarity to protect the unborn.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.25.2018	01.25.18 Senator David Perdue On White House Immigration Framework WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the immigration framework released by the White House today: “The White House framework is something that both Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate should be eager to support. We all want a good deal, and here it is.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Senator David Perdue Talks Immigration Latest On Georgia Radio WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined multiple Georgia radio shows across the state to provide an update on ongoing immigration discussions. Highlights Totally Irresponsible: “The Senate Democrats overplayed their hand. The funding deal that was offered to them on Friday is the same deal they took on Tuesday, and the Schumer Shutdown totally misread the American people. Americans see this as totally irresponsible, as do I.” Majority Want Border Security: “The Harvard-Harris poll says that 80% of Americans want border security. Over two-thirds believe that President Trump is right, and that a DACA solution must include border security with a wall, an end to chain migration, and an end to this archaic visa lottery.” Return To Founding Principles: “We need a government that is closest to the people, to the principles that built this country in the first place, and that’s economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. That’s what Washington has gotten away from over the last 100 years.” Big Government Failed: “People have realized, during the last eight years, we had the lowest economic growth in our history. What the Democrats proved is that bigger government, more regulations, and an onerous tax system is not consistent with growing our economy. If we don’t have a strong economy, we’ll never be able to afford our military. We’ll never be able to afford protecting our country. We’ll never be able to afford the safety net the Democrats boast about. The Democrat mantra of bigger government has failed. The evidence is abundant.” Always An Outsider: “I came to this with no background in Washington politics. The President didn’t have a background in Washington politics either. So he and I are alike in that regard, in that we come to this with a different perspective. We just want to get results.” Listening To Americans: “Americans support the President’s position on immigration. This is an issue he has been instinctively in line with the American people all along. I know the Washington media and the swamp up here don’t get that but the American people do.” Moving To Merit-Based: “Senator Tom Cotton and I have a bill called that RAISE Act. It would lead us towards a merit-based immigration system, like Canada and Australia have had for decades.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.24.2018	01.24.18 New Poll Shows Americans Support President Trump’s Immigration Policies “The Schumer Shutdown Was A Result Of One Thing: Democrats Misread The American People” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Steve Doocy on Fox News Channel’s Fox and Friends about a new poll showing that Americans overwhelmingly support President Trump’s efforts to fix our legal immigration system, including increasing border security, eliminating the outdated visa lottery, ending chain migration, and resolving the DACA situation. Click here or on the image below to watch the full interview. Highlights: Misreading The American People: “The Schumer Shutdown was a result of one thing: Democrats misread the American people.” Four Parameters: “The President has been very consistent all along. He said he wants a compassionate solution to the DACA situation and any solution has got to include border security with the wall, an end of chain migration, and an end to this visa lottery.” New Poll is Proof: “This poll is a great illustration of where the Democrats are out of touch with the American people. 80% of America wants border security and over two thirds want a DACA solution to include border security with a wall, an end of chain migration, and an end to this visa lottery. All along, the President’s instincts about this have been right.” Securing The Border: “There is symmetry here. Both sides want to end the visa lottery. Both sides want to solve the border security issue, and the President has proven he is right over and over again that a wall is necessary to do that.” Ongoing Negotiations: “The President has been very engaged on this issue. I was at the White House this week, along with Democrats in different meetings. We have a road map that we believe not only will pass the Senate, but also pass the House.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.22.2018	01.22.18 Senator David Perdue Supports National School Choice Week WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) and others to introduce a resolution declaring January 22-26, 2018 as National School Choice Week. “One of my first jobs was at a Head Start program helping kids learn to read, and both of my parents were schoolteachers, so ensuring students have access to a quality education has always been very important to me,” said Senator Perdue. “Parents, teachers, and administrators all know that Washington’s one-size-fits-all education standards are not working. We need to return control back to states and communities who are best equipped to help each child succeed. I’m proud to join my colleagues in recognizing National School Choice Week and celebrating all types of schools – public, private, charter, homeschool, and online – that work to set students on a path to success.” The National School Choice Week Resolution is also co-sponsored by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Boozman (R-AR), Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), John McCain (R-AZ), Rand Paul (R-KY), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN). Read the full text of the resolution here.
01.22.2018	01.22.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On End Of Schumer Shutdown WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) made the following statement after Senate Democrats agreed to end the Schumer Shutdown and reopen the federal government: “It is ridiculous that we were ever in the Schumer Shutdown in the first place. I’m glad to see that Senate Democrats came to their senses and stopped this nonsense. It is frustrating that this is the same proposal that was offered to them days ago before they decided to shut down the government over immigration. Senate Democrats took their political stunt a step too far since a majority of Americans support funding the federal government over continuing the DACA program. Clearly, Congress’ budget process is a complete failure. It has only worked four times in the past 43 years, and given the current political dynamics it will never work. Tying important policy decisions to the funding process is the reason we end up in these damaging situations. It’s time Congress gets serious about reworking the way we fund the federal government. That way we can start tackling other big ticket items such as fixing our immigration system and beginning to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure.”
01.20.2018	01.20.18 Senator David Perdue Comments On The Schumer Shutdown WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) made the following statement after Senate Democrats voted to shut down the federal government: “This Schumer Shutdown is absolutely ridiculous. It is totally irresponsible for the Democrats to use government funding as a bargaining chip. Democrats have created a false deadline by trying to tie illegal immigration to government funding. As I’ve consistently said, these are two totally different issues and should be dealt with separately. Ever since I was sworn into the United States Senate, I have been talking about the total collapse of the budgeting process. Only four times in the past 43 years has this budget process actually funded the federal government. These repeated failures have manifested into a pattern of short-term funding patches, continuing resolutions, that hamstring our military. This short-term mentality in Washington has got to stop. When Congress fails to complete its budget, the best outcome is that six or eight people determine how to spend a trillion dollars of discretionary spending. Clearly, Congress’ funding mechanism does not work and will never work. We are doomed to this cycle of fiscal irresponsibility until Congress reworks this budget process to successfully meet its Constitutional responsibility of funding the federal government.”
01.19.2018	01.19.18 Senator David Perdue: All Life Is Worth Protecting WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the annual March for Life in our nation’s capital: “It is inspiring to see so many Georgians in our nation’s capital today marching to protect unborn life,” said Senator Perdue. “March for Life makes a powerful statement to our country’s leaders and the world: all life is worth protecting. We have a moral obligation to fight for those who can’t fight for themselves, and I will continue working alongside these Georgians marching today to advance pro-life policies.” Senator Perdue has taken the following action to protect unborn life: Co-sponsored the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which prevents abortions after 20 weeks of development for any reason except to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest Co-sponsored the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which requires health professionals to provide children with the same care of any other child born alive at the same gestational age Co-sponsored the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, which prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion or health coverage that includes abortion ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Senator David Perdue: Holding Our Military Hostage Is No Way To Govern “Don’t tie immigration to funding the government. Our men and women in uniform deserve better” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor to reiterate that funding the government and solving the DACA situation are two entirely different issues, with two separate deadlines, and should not be tied together as one. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Only In Washington: “It is absolutely ridiculous that we're in the fourth month of this fiscal year, in the middle of January, and we still haven’t funded the government for the balance of the year. No other entity that I know of can do this except the United States federal government.” Two Separate Issues: “The DACA solution and funding the federal government are two issues that we're talking about. They have nothing to do with each other and should not be tied together.” False Deadlines: “I'm shocked Democrats would advocate for shutting down the government over a bill no one has seen yet and for an issue that has nothing to do with getting the government funded. Creating a false deadline for a DACA solution and using it to hold our military hostage is no way to govern.” Right Back Here: “If we don't actually solve what created this we're going to be right back here in a few years, and that's the problem I have with the bill that's being discussed here, the so-called Graham-Durbin proposal.” Solving DACA: “All we want is to solve DACA and ensure we aren’t doing this again in a few short years. That means we need a real investment in border security. We need to put the focus on immediate families of incoming immigrants. We need to end the archaic, outdated visa lottery.” Time For Action: “It’s time for action. The American people demand it, but this should not be tied to funding the government. Our men and women in uniform deserve better.”
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Senator David Perdue Votes To Further Counterterrorism Efforts “Now more than ever, we must remain vigilant in protecting the homeland” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, comments on the Senate’s action to allow U.S. intelligence agencies to continue collecting communications data on any foreign power or agent engaged in espionage or terrorism: “The world is more dangerous than any time in my life. Now more than ever, we must remain vigilant in protecting the homeland. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is a vital intelligence tool that helps further our counterterrorism efforts worldwide and keep Americans safe. In fact, these authorities have recently been used to target ISIS leadership and previously foiled the 2009 New York subway bombing plot. This program is critical to our country's fight against terrorism. Without it our nation is at a clear disadvantage.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.17.2018	01.17.18 Grassley, Cotton, Perdue: Latest Immigration Plan leaves Key Concerns Unresolved WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and Senators Tom Cotton and David Perdue today made the following comments regarding the Durbin-Graham-Flake immigration proposal, which fails to adequately address border security, enforcement, chain migration and diversity visas, while expanding legal status to immigrants who knowingly violated immigration law. “The Durbin-Graham-Flake proposal would do nothing to solve the underlying problem in our current immigration system. It does not take the needed steps to fix our porous border and it fails to empower law enforcement to apprehend and remove dangerous criminals who are here illegally. Furthermore, since it does not end chain migration, this proposal guarantees we will be right back here dealing with this same situation in the near future. As we’ve said all along, those brought here illegally through no fault of their own shouldn’t be punished, but this proposal also effectively legalizes those who knowingly broke our immigration laws. “America is the most welcoming country in the world. But the American people have understandably lost trust in Washington after multiple attempts to fix our broken immigration system have failed to address its underlying problems. “It’s inconceivable that anyone would shut down the government over this plan. It’s time to come back to the negotiating table and focus on getting a serious solution to the DACA situation that protects all Americans and our national security.” ###
01.14.2018	01.14.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration Latest On Fox News & ABC WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Trish Regan on Fox News Channel’s Sunday Morning Futures and George Stephanopoulos on ABC’s This Week about recent meetings at the White House to fix the legal immigration system. Click here or on the image below to watch the Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures interview. Highlights from Sunday Morning Futures Negotiating A Deal: “The President has been very clear that any solution to DACA must include border security, including the wall, an end to chain migration, and an end to the visa lottery. Last week, we had two meetings at the White House. President Trump is very engaged on this issue, just like he was on tax. I’m hopeful we can get symmetry in this negotiation. In my business experience, that's how you get to a deal and I still think there is a possibility to do that.” Double Talk From Democrats: “It’s a gross distraction from the issue. Senators Schumer and Durbin both talked about ending parts of chain migration on the Senate floor. We're doing things that the Democrats have voted for and have supported in the past. Under Bill Clinton in the 90s, we had a Presidential Commission actually recommend limiting chain migration and recommend moving to a merit-based immigration system based on who you are and not where you are from. The problem now is politics. That's what's so frustrating to all of us.” Focusing The Scope: “Congress has failed three times in the last 11 years to fix the immigration system because they’ve been too comprehensive and tried to solve the legal problem, the temporary work visa problem, and the illegal immigration problem at the same time. What we’re doing now is limiting this debate to just the legal immigration system and I believe we can get to a solution.” President’s Agenda Is Working: “If this were any other president getting the results that we’re getting right now in the economy, we would be crowing about the results. Two million new jobs created last year, 860 rules and regulations pulled back, 500 bureaucrats fired at the VA for non-performance, 300 fired in the Department of Education, consumer confidence is at a 17-year high, CEO confidence is at a 20-year high, 123 companies decided to give year-end bonuses because of our action on tax. This economy is beginning to move and what we have to do now is focus on immigration, infrastructure, and trade to keep moving the economy forward.” Responding To Hawaii: “I don’t know the details of that yet, but it just heightens the fact that somebody made a mistake somewhere. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I can assure you that we’ll get to the bottom of that.” Click here or on the image below to watch the ABC’s This Week interview. Highlights from This Week Solving DACA: “The problem is Washington career politicians who just want to pander to their base. What we have right now is a gross misrepresentation of a meeting from Thursday. Two days earlier, the President held an hour-long open meeting with the media where Democrats and Republicans from both the House and Senate debated the issue. We want to solve the DACA problem. We want border security with a wall. We want to end chain migration and the visa lottery. That's the scope we all agreed on Tuesday.” Record Of Misrepresenting: “In 2013, Senator Durbin made the same allegation against a Republican leader in a meeting with President Obama, saying he chewed out the president and that this Republican leader was so disrespectful to President Obama they couldn’t even have the meeting. That’s what he said that in 2013. Later that day, President Obama’s own press secretary came out and said, ‘it did not happen.’ This is about a gross misrepresentation, and it’s not the first time.” Current Negotiation Parameters: “We're focusing on four things. The President has been consistent all along about what he wants in an immigration deal. I have been consistent. Senator Cotton has been consistent. Any deal on DACA has to include border security, including a wall, and the end to chain migration. That's been consistent for the past year.”
01.12.2018	01.12.18 Senator Perdue & Senator Cotton Comment On Yesterday’s White House Meeting WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) comment on yesterday’s meeting at the White House on negotiations to fix the legal immigration system: “President Trump brought everyone to the table this week and listened to both sides. But regrettably, it seems that not everyone is committed to negotiating in good faith. In regards to Senator Durbin’s accusation, we do not recall the President saying these comments specifically but what he did call out was the imbalance in our current immigration system, which does not protect American workers and our national interest. We, along with the President, are committed to solving an issue many in Congress have failed to deliver on for decades.” ###
01.10.2018	01.10.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s Economic Agenda On Bloomberg TV “It’s high time we tell the rest of the world what’s important to American workers and American businesses” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with David Westin on Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak America about the positive impact President Trump’s agenda is having on our economy, American workers, and American businesses. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Accomplishing Job One: “We are already seeing growth. President Trump said job one was growing the economy. He focused on three things. First was the regulatory work. Last year, we reversed around 860 rules and regulations. Second was unleashing our energy potential. We opened up oil exploration in Alaska and addressed Waters of the U.S. and Clean Power Plan regulations. The third was tax. President Trump accomplished the three things he deemed important to grow the economy.” Growing The Economy: “We have had two quarters of 3% growth and we’re about to have a third in my opinion. Now that we have tax in play we are going to see a continuation of this in 2018. The President has jumpstarted and grown this economy.” Negotiating Fairer Agreements: “There are things that are problematic with NAFTA. They can be solved, and I think the President is focused on fixing those problems. We need a level playing field, and President Trump wants to have equal access to all of these markets.” Fighting For American Interests: “President Trump is willing to take a risk to stand up for American interests. President Trump has made it clear that we know what’s important to the rest of the world because they’ve been telling us for 30 years. It’s high time we tell the rest of the world what’s important to American workers and American businesses.” Recognizing Debt Crisis: “We’ve had four increases in the federal funds rate in the last 15 months. Even worse, over the last eight years during the Obama Administration when interest rates were fundamentally zero, they didn’t go long in our bond portfolio. The duration of most of our $20 trillion debt portfolio is under three years. So this is going to come rolling on our backs. If interest rates were at their 30-year average of about 5%, we’d be paying about $1 trillion a year in interest. That just isn’t going to happen on a $4 trillion budget. We’re in a crisis mode.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.10.2018	01.10.18 Senator David Perdue Discusses Fixing Legal Immigration System On Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Brian Kilmeade on Fox News’ Fox & Friends about yesterday’s bipartisan meeting at the White House to fix the legal immigration system. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Goals Established: “This President is an outsider. He is a business guy. He wants to get results on this issue just like he did on tax. What we did yesterday is agree on two things. One, we agreed on the scope of this current negotiation. We are not trying to solve all of our immigration problems here. What we want to do is solve the DACA issue, address border security, eliminate chain migration, and end the archaic visa lottery program. The second thing the President did yesterday was establish a sense of urgency. That is something rare in Washington.” Differentiating Deadlines: “The January 19 deadline to fund the government, and the March 5 DACA deadline are two totally separate issues. I heard members on the other side talk about that after the meeting. January 19 is about funding the government, and that is another conversation entirely.” Broad Support: “72% of Americans believe immigration should be focused on the worker and the immediate family. Name another idea or another issue here in Washington that 70% of Americans agree on. This is one issue where the American people are going to hold us accountable.” Sense Of Urgency: “We are still working against a hard deadline of March 5. That's how you bring a sense of urgency and get things done in Congress. President Trump said yesterday that he expects results on this issue. He is willing to work with us day and night. I think that was evident yesterday from the conversation we had in the White House.” Focused Negotiations: “I give the President high marks for bringing a focus to this issue and not trying to solve every problem related to immigration but instead, focus right now on the legal immigration system.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.09.2018	01.09.18 Senator David Perdue: President Trump Driving Consensus To Fix Our Legal Immigration System “My personal focus continues to be on how we eliminate chain migration, which is a fundamental flaw in our current immigration policy” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) made the following comments after the White House meeting on immigration today: “President Trump, being an outsider and business guy, is driving consensus between Republicans and Democrats to fix our legal immigration system. Today’s White House meeting was to define the scope of this negotiation to include four items: solving the DACA situation, addressing border security, ending chain migration, and eliminating the outdated visa lottery. President Trump is trying to instill a sense of urgency to get something done on immigration, but this topic should not be part of funding the federal government. My personal focus continues to be on how we eliminate chain migration, which is a fundamental flaw in our current immigration policy. If any conversation about DACA is being held without that consideration, it is not going to go anywhere in the United States Senate. The first thing a DACA recipient will do if given permanent status is use chain migration laws to sponsor those who violated the law originally. Ending chain migration and eliminating the outdated visa lottery program is in our national security and economic interest. President Trump has done a great job making sure this remains a top priority in any immigration discussion.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.05.2018	01.05.18 Senator David Perdue Works To Strengthen Georgia’s HBCUs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus, joined Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Tim Kaine (D-VA) to help improve the financial health of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), some of our nation’s most critical higher education institutions. Despite the fact that HBCUs provide educational opportunities to some of our nation’s most promising students, these institutions too often struggle financially. The HBCU Capital Financing Improvement Act would make technical changes to the HBCU Capital Financing Program, providing HBCUs access to capital financing or refinancing for the repair, renovation, and construction of campus infrastructure. These changes will allow more institutions to have access to the program, helping to offset disproportions faced by HBCUs in the private bond market. “Georgia is home to 10 fantastic HBCUs that play an important role in educating America’s next leaders,” said Senator Perdue. “I am working to ensure all HBCUs in Georgia have the opportunity to get financial assistance for capital improvement projects that will only contribute to their positive impact on our state.” Background There are currently 10 HBCUs located in Georgia including Albany State University, Clark Atlanta University, Fort Valley State University, Interdenominational Theological Center, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, Morris Brown College, Paine College, Savannah State University, and Spelman College. Senator Perdue has consistently worked to promote the interests of Georgia’s HBCUs in the U.S. Senate. Senator Perdue met with Georgia’s HBCU leadership. Senator Perdue applauded President Trump’s support for our country’s HBCUs. Senator Perdue secured funds to support minority women in STEM at HBCUs in this year’s defense bill.
12.30.2017	12.30.17 Senator David Perdue Recaps This Year’s Results, Previews 2018 on Fox News ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Mike Emanuel on Fox News’ Special Report about President Trump’s significant accomplishments during his first year in office and the priorities heading into 2018. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Delivering Results: “President Trump laid out four agenda items this year. We accomplished most of them. President Trump wants to continue to get results. The economy is going to move now that we started regulatory work and with the tax bill we just passed.” Early Success: “The President is working diligently to get ready for 2018, but he is very happy with the results of 2017. His first year in office we saw 2 million new jobs created, 860 rules and regulations being reversed, illegal crossings down 60%, 500 people have been fired at the Veterans Administration for non-performance. The President is very excited about the future of our country now that we’re moving to get the economy going again.” Business Focus: “We have a business guy in the White House for a change. He is moving at a business place, not a bureaucratic pace. Look, 2018 is an election year, but we have different leadership in the White House. He is not going to waive off his priorities for an election process.” Immigration Solution: “President Trump, Senator Tom Cotton, and I have been consistently saying that any solution for DACA has to include an end to this archaic chain migration and money for border security and the wall at our southern border.” Helping American Workers: “That’s what’s wrong with Washington, career politicians don’t understand how the free enterprise system works. The best thing we can do for the American worker, the American consumer, for anyone who works in America is to help our businesses, large and small, become competitive again with the rest of the world.” Breaking The Gridlock: “The problem in Washington is gridlock. The minority party is causing that right now, but there are signs of encouragement. Frankly, the immigration issue is one that should have a bipartisan solution. We believe we can do that early in the new year. The President is going to keep focused on that as we get back to work next week.”
12.29.2017	12.29.17 Senator David Perdue: 2017 In Photos ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) shared a look at his third year as an outsider in the U.S. Senate working to shake things up and get results for Georgians and the American people. Download the entire gallery here. 1. January 20, 2017: Attending President Trump’s inauguration with Senators Thom Tillis and Joni Ernst. 2. February 9, 2017: Meeting with Judge Neil Gorsuch, who the Senate later confirmed as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. 3. April 12, 2017: Touring the 1-85 bridge rebuild effort with GDOT Commissioner Russell McMurry. 4. April 13, 2017: Thanking law enforcement officers in Glennville at the 30th Annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Cookout hosted by Wayne Dasher. 5. April 25, 2017: Witnessing my cousin, Sonny, be sworn in as the 31st U.S. Secretary of Agriculture by Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Clarence Thomas. 6. June 9, 2017: Hosting a send-off breakfast in honor of the 20 Georgians nominated and appointed to U.S. Service Academies. 7. June 27, 2017: Attending a Sunset Parade at the U.S. Marine Corps War Memorial. 8. July 4, 2017: Celebrating Independence Day with our troops in Afghanistan. 9. July 11, 2017: Urging the Senate to work through the regularly scheduled August state work period in order to get results for Georgians and the American people. 10. August 2, 2017: Introducing the RAISE Act, a pro-worker, pro-growth plan to solve our country’s immigration problems, with President Trump and Senator Tom Cotton at the White House. (courtesy of the White House) 11. August 25, 2017: Greeting Georgians attending the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition Conference in Atlanta. 12. October 4, 2017: Introducing Tripp Self, President Trump’s nominee to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, in his confirmation hearing alongside Senator Isakson. 13. November 7, 2017: Highlighting the importance of changing our tax code with Senior Trump Administration officials, grassroots leaders, and other senators. 14. December 6, 2017: Hosting Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson, leaders from Robins Air Force Base, and members of the Warner Robins community to celebrate Robins’ successes and highlight its many assets. 15. December 20, 2017: Marking an historic achievement at the White House after voting to pass a tax bill that provides real relief to working Americans and makes America competitive with the rest of the world.
12.28.2017	12.28.17 Senator David Perdue Highlights President Trump’s Year of Accomplishments “Everybody outside of the Washington bubble recognizes the President’s agenda is beginning to work” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after spending time with President Trump this week discussing upcoming priorities: “President Trump is a political outsider and business guy who is listening to the American people. He is moving at a business pace, not a bureaucratic pace, and as a result our economy is in the midst of a turnaround. Everybody in the country outside of the Washington bubble recognizes that the President’s agenda is beginning to work. Following the historic changes to our tax code, the reversal of hundreds of onerous regulations, and the unleashing of our energy potential we are already seeing increased levels of business and consumer confidence. “This year, we made some real progress. In 2018, we must keep up this momentum and build on the president’s early success. I remain committed to keeping the President’s agenda on track in the Senate by continuing to work alongside Senator Tom Cotton to change our archaic immigration system. In addition, we have to find ways to fully support our military, open up new markets for American businesses, and begin to rebuild our county’s infrastructure. It is more important than ever that we focus on getting results by implementing the President’s agenda.” President Trump’s First Year of Accomplishments: 2 million new jobs created 860 rules and regulations eliminated 500 bureaucrats fired at the VA 300 bureaucrats fired at the Department of Education Illegal border crossings down by more than 60% Consumer confidence is at 17 year high CEO confidence is at 20 year high Gorsuch confirmed to Supreme Court 145 federal judges will be confirmed (12 circuit judges confirmed in Trump’s first year. Only 3 confirmed in Obama’s first year) 2 straight quarters of 3% GDP growth NATO countries beginning to pay their fair share First time in 8 years we have reinvested in our military Read more in Senator Perdue’s recent op-ed in the Savannah Morning News here.
12.22.2017	12.22.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Effort To Strengthen Secure Mail Initiative Program Senate Unanimously Agrees to SECURE Mail Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) took action to improve the Secure Mail Initiative program, created by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and U.S. Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS). The Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative (SECURE) Act helps ensure and verify delivery of sensitive immigration-related documents. It provides the recipient of a document with the option to have the U.S. Postal Service hold for pickup or require signature confirmation for delivery. This week, the Senate unanimously agreed to this important safeguard. “When sensitive immigration documents such as green cards, travel papers, and employment authorizations wind up in the wrong hands the consequences can be dire,” said Senator Perdue. “These situations are easily avoidable with simple safety measures like signature confirmation or in-person pick up options. By making these options available within the Secure Mail Initiative, DHS and USPS will be able to provide more effective service. I am glad the Senate has seen the value in taking this necessary precaution.” Too often, important documents have been confirmed as delivered to a specific address, but not necessarily received by the addressee. The bill amends the Secure Mail Initiative to help deliver sensitive immigration documents, to ensure that the proper person receives their documents rather than it just being delivered to the right address. View the Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative (SECURE) Act here.
12.22.2017	12.22.17 Senator David Perdue Tackles False Claims About The Tax Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) took to the Senate floor this week to correct the false claims being made about the positive impact the Republican tax cut plan will have on American families, workers, and businesses. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Fiction: Big government works best for the American people. FACT: “Over 40 years, I have watched U.S. competitiveness decline and decline. Why? Because of two reasons. Our federal government grew out of proportion. In 2000, the size of our government was $2.4 trillion. Last year, it was $4 trillion. We poured regulation on top of regulation. We liberalized all our social programs to the point we cannot afford it. Second, we lost our competitiveness with the rest of the world. The rest of the world lowered their tax rates while we increased ours.” Fiction: This plan is only going to help the wealthy. FACT: “A family of four who makes the median income of $73,000 a year is going to get a 60% reduction in their federal taxes. A single working mother, who has to find child care and find her way to work, is going to get a 75% tax cut.” Fiction: This tax plan was pushed through in the dead of night. FACT: “In the last few years, there have been over 70 public hearings in the Senate committees about tax reform. This particular bill has been in full regular order. Yes it was done in reconciliation, but that is regular order.” Fiction: This tax plan won’t generate economic growth. FACT: “Most of the people who say that have never written their signature on the front of the check. They just simply haven’t been in business. These are newfound experts who think we need bigger government to grow the economy. Bigger government does not correlate with a better growing, competitive economy. It’s been estimated that hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created because of this plan. It’s estimated that annual incomes of working Americans will go up between $4,000-9,000. GDP will grow somewhere between 3-5% over the next decade. I actually believe it could be more than that.” Fiction: This tax plan will add $1 trillion to the debt. FACT: “This is from the side of the aisle that doubled our debt in the last decade. There is no bigger debt hawk in the U.S. Senate than me, and I can tell you this is what brought me into the political arena. To solve this debt crisis, we have to grow the economy. Growing the economy alone won’t solve the debt crisis, but we will not solve the debt crisis until we grow the economy. We’re told by the Joint Committee on Taxation and the Congressional Budget Office, both modeling groups I have personal problems with, but even in their worst case scenarios you only have to grow the economy .2% per year to pay for these changes.”
12.21.2017	12.21.17 Senator David Perdue Highlights Historic Tax Cuts On Conservative Radio “This plan addresses the things in the tax code that keep us from having vital, growing, and healthy businesses” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) highlighted the historic changes to the tax code that Congress sent to the President’s desk this week on several national radio shows. Click here to listen or click on the image above. A Step Forward: “I came here to try to help change the direction of our country. We have a man in the White House who’s trying to do the same thing. This tax bill will help us do that, no question about it.” Socialism Has Never Worked: “There’s no living example in history where socialism has worked. We know capitalism works. It’s better for everybody, from the entry-level worker all the way to the owner of small businesses.” Growing The Economy: “This plan moves directly to address the things that we have in the tax code that keep us from having vital, growing, and healthy businesses.” Original Outsiders: “We’ve got a President that is not an ideologue. He is dealing in facts and he only has one objective, and that’s to get results. That’s why people elected him and why I was elected. I’m the outsider here looking in. People up here don’t really know what to do with me, they don’t know what to do with him, and that’s because we’re focused on getting results.” Click here to listen or click on the image above. Year Of Accomplishments: “People are seeing that these conservative principles actually do work. The key right now is that we get closer and we start driving behind our agenda. President Trump has a plan for our country that will bring us back to dominance and leadership again.” Big Government Failures: “The misinformation is a huge disservice to Americans. The other side knows all of their big government programs have failed, from the Great Society’s poverty programs all the way to Obamacare. They can’t name one big sweeping government program that works.” Combatting Misinformation: “If you want to know why this bill is unpopular, according to these liberal polls, it’s in large part because the only feedback people are getting are these lies.”
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Senator David Perdue: This Is The Capstone On A Very Successful Year “I believe a lot of people woke up this morning and realized America is back in business again” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Bloomberg TV’s What’d You Miss to discuss the historic changes to the tax code that have been sent to President Trump’s desk to provide relief to middle-class families and make America more competitive again. Click here to watch or click on the image below. A Year Of Accomplishments: “This is the capstone on a very successful year of the Trump Administration. President Trump said job one was getting the economy going. He pulled back 860 rules and regulations, released our energy potential and now we have these historic tax cuts. This tax plan is going to bring relief to working men and women and make American businesses more competitive again around the world.” Proof Is In The Results: “From before the plan was even finalized, you’ve had messaging from the other side with many points of misinformation. The real tell-tale sign here is when Americans get their paychecks in February and when they see jobs created. They’re going to see the impact of this bill. The person who is going to benefit the most from this is the person that gets a job. Americans will begin to see the reality and we’re going to continue to tell the truth about what we just did.” Combating Misinformation: “The misinformation out there can be corrected with a few simple facts. A family of four making the median income of $73,000 will see a 60% tax cut. A working mother, making the median income of $41,000 will see a 75% tax cut in this bill. These will be proven as this plan goes into effect.” Back In Business: “We are making American businesses competitive with the rest of the world. I believe a lot of people woke up this morning and realized America is back in business again. I give President Trump and his Administration all the credit for that.” Growing Confidence: “You’re going to see many more examples of corporate confidence. Right now, CEO confidence is at a 20 year high. Not only that, consumer confidence is at 16 year high because Americans believe President Trump was listening to them in last year’s election and is delivering on his promises. I believe the American people responded very strongly to that.” ###
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Senator David Perdue: This Is An Historic Achievement “This tax plan makes America competitive with the rest of the world again” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate took historic action to fix the tax code: “For the last eight years, America has suffered under big government bureaucrats’ vision of an America where the new norm is two percent economic growth. Today Republicans said that’s not good enough. President Trump has been working tirelessly this year making it a priority to provide regulatory relief, unleash our energy potential, and change our tax code for one reason, and one reason only: to get our economy growing again. This tax plan makes America competitive with the rest of the world again, eliminates our archaic repatriation tax, and provides real tax relief for working Americans. These changes to the tax code mean greater job opportunities, more capital at work in our economy, and more money back in the pockets of middle-class American families. This is an historic achievement. There is no denying the stimulative impact the corporate tax cut will have on our economy. The best thing we can do for Americans who go to work every day and punch a timecard is to put U.S. businesses and workers back on a level playing field with the rest of the world. We have delivered.”
12.19.2017	12.19.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Historic Tax Cuts On CNBC “The person who is going to benefit the most in this tax plan is the person that gets a job” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Joe Kernen, Becky Quick, and Andrew Sorkin on CNBC’s Squawk Box about the historic action the U.S. Senate has taken to fix the tax code, help middle-class families, and make America more competitive again. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Historic Opportunity: “It’s a historic day in Washington. People are expecting us to get tax done, and I think we will.” Simplifying The Code: “This is a simplification. Only 30% of taxpayers today itemize, and that’s projected to go down to 10%. To say it another way, 90% of all taxpayers will use the standard deduction, which was doubled in this plan. This is by any definition simplification.” Growing Optimism: “Getting our corporate rate to be competitive with the rest of the world is the best thing we can do for the American worker, and I think that’s what you’re seeing in some of these optimism numbers now.” Relief For The Middle Class: “This is indeed a tax cut for the middle class. A family of four, who make the median income of $73,000, are going to get a 60% tax cut. A single mom, with one child, making $41,000 is going to get a 75% tax cut.” Making America Competitive: “Our focus here is to get competitive again, and the person who is going to benefit the most in this tax plan, is the person that gets a job.”
12.18.2017	12.18.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s National Security Strategy “President Trump has laid out a clear path to protect our homeland and reengage around the world” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s National Security Strategy: “President Trump has laid out a clear path to protect our homeland and reengage around the world. This multi-pronged strategy will encourage diplomacy with our allies and challenge our global competitors in an ever-changing world. We have to recognize that the world is more dangerous than any time in my lifetime and Americans are facing more threats at home and abroad than ever before. Under the direction of President Trump, America is signaling a strong commitment to reengaging as a global and economic leader.”
12.14.2017	12.14.17 Senator David Perdue: UN Report On Iran Validates U.S. Concerns UN acknowledgement of destabilizing actions critical to global efforts to rein in Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, comments on the United Nations report describing Iran’s repeat violations of UN resolutions, including weapons transfer and arming Houthi rebels in Yemen: “President Trump and Ambassador Haley have been consistently calling Iran out for its nefarious behavior and this report validates their concerns. The UN’s acknowledgement of Iran’s destabilizing actions is also critical to global efforts to rein in Iran and hold them accountable. This report is another testament to Ambassador Haley’s leadership at the UN and the great job she is doing to defend America’s national security interests.” Read the full report from the United Nations here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.13.2017	12.13.17 Senator David Perdue Introduces Georgia Federal Judge Nominee In Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced Judge Stan Baker, of St. Simons, President Trump’s nominee to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Georgia, in his confirmation hearing before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: “I’m proud to be here today to introduce an outstanding Georgian, Judge Stan Baker, who has been nominated by President Trump to fill a federal District Court vacancy in the Southern District of Georgia. Judge Baker has enjoyed a distinguished legal career and has served with distinction on the bench. Judge Baker has served as a United States Magistrate Judge in the Southern District since 2015. He graduated from the University of Georgia School of Law with high honors and began his legal career by serving for two years as a law clerk to Judge William T. Moore, Jr., of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. He went on to spend a decade as a criminal and civil litigation attorney before being appointed to his current position. During that time, he litigated numerous criminal and civil matters in state and federal courts in Georgia and 13 other states. I’m so proud and happy to be able to welcome Judge Baker to today’s hearing along with his wife, Crystal, his two daughters, Anna Beth and Belle Grace, and all of his other family members and friends who are here with him today. I’m extremely proud to support his nomination and applaud the President for his selection of such an impressive Georgian to fill this seat on the federal bench.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.13.2017	12.13.17 Senator David Perdue Introduces Atlanta-Based U.S. Circuit Judge Nominee In Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced Judge Lisa Branch, of Atlanta, President Trump’s nominee to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Atlanta-based Eleventh Circuit, in her confirmation hearing before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. Click here or on the image below to watch. Click here to download a photo. Transcript: “I’m proud to be here today to introduce an outstanding Georgian, Judge Lisa Branch, who has been nominated by President Trump to fill a vacancy on the Atlanta-based Eleventh Circuit. Judge Branch has enjoyed a distinguished legal career and has served with distinction on the bench. Judge Branch has served as a judge on the Court of Appeals of Georgia since 2012. She graduated from Emory University School of Law with distinction in 1994 and went on to serve as a law clerk to Judge J. Owen Forrester of the U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Georgia. Between 2004-2008, Judge Branch served as the Associate General Counsel for Rules and Legislation at the Department of Homeland Security and then as Counselor to the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget. She then went on to become a partner in the commercial litigation department at Smith, Gambrell, & Russell in Atlanta before taking her seat on the Georgia Court of Appeals. I’m very proud to support Judge Branch’s nomination and to welcome her father, David, her mother, Ginny, and all her family members and friends who have traveled to be with her today in support. I applaud the President for his selection of such an impressive Georgian to fill this seat on the federal bench.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.12.2017	12.12.17 Senator David Perdue On The Signing Of Major Defense Bill Into Law “President Trump is strengthening our military by ensuring our troops have the resources they need” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, commented on President Trump’s signing of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law today, which includes 30 of Senator Perdue’s priorities: “One of six reasons why 13 colonies came together in the first place was to provide for the national defense. President Trump has shown he is committed to carrying out this responsibility as our country’s commander in chief. By signing this defense bill into law today, President Trump is strengthening our military by approving a well-deserved pay raise for our troops and ensuring they have the resources they need. I am proud to have worked on the negotiating team that finalized this bill, which includes many priorities important to our national security and Georgia’s military community." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.12.2017	12.12.17 What They Are Saying: Annual Defense Bill Critical To Georgia’s Military Community President Trump Signs Defense Bill Into Law Today WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today President Trump will sign into law a defense bill to prioritize troop readiness, expedite an audit of the Department of Defense, increase service member pay, and ensure our military has the resources it needs to carry out its mission around the globe. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and member of the bill’s negotiating team, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) was an active participant in discussions around this defense bill, which includes 30 of Senator Perdue’s priorities important to Georgia’s military community. Here are some highlights: “When the U.S. Senate passed a defense budget last week, the headline-grabber was the $700 billion bottom line. But nestled in the bill is a provision secured by U.S. Sen. David Perdue of Georgia that relates to Fort Gordon and its growing cybersecurity mission…From his seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Perdue inserted language in the bill requiring that the training issue be resolved in the next budget planning cycle and requests an update for the committee.” (The Augusta Chronicle: Perdue’s Provision) “The bill also prohibits any funds being used to retire J-STARS aircraft. J-STARS, or Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System, gives ground commanders an overhead view of the battlefield and has been heavily used in the global war on terror. The J-STARS provisions were put in the bill by U.S. Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., who is on the Armed Services Committee and was part of the conference committee.” (The Macon Telegraph: Defense bill language defends J-STARS) “U.S. Sen. David Perdue, R-Georgia, called the 1989 provision an ‘outdated law’ that had ‘prevented the base from being utilized to its fullest potential.’ He and Georgia’s senior senator, Johnny Isakson, worked together to get the measure that would lift the exclusivity clause into the Senate’s version of the defense bill. Isakson drafted the provision’s language and Perdue worked with the Senate Armed Services Committee and its chairman, U.S. Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, to get the provision added.” (Marietta Daily Journal: Dobbins runway provision remains in bill) “Dobbins Air Reserve Base could be in for an influx of new business from the private sector, thanks to the latest version of the annual defense spending bill. A compromise version of the legislation the U.S. House of Representatives passed Wednesday would let private companies use Dobbins' runway…The proposal to open up Dobbins to other business was amended into the original Senate version of the fiscal 2018 defense spending bill by U.S. Sen. David Perdue. R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, working with other members of Georgia's congressional delegation.” (Atlanta Business Journal: Defense spending bill would open Dobbins to more business) “The bill contains $103 million for replacing aging wings for the Air Force's A-10C ‘Warthog’ ground attack planes, some of which are stationed at Moody AFB. Lack of money for replacing the aging parts led an Air Force general earlier this year to warn that some of the Warthogs would have to be grounded…The original version of the National Defense Authorization Act passed the house in July, then that version was passed to the senate, which had its own version of the NDAA, which it passed, Ledbetter said. A Senate-House conference committee was formed, including Scott and Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), to hammer out a compromise bill for both houses to vote on, she said.” (The Valdosta Daily: Times: Defense bill earmarks money for A-10 upkeep) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.11.2017	12.11.17 Senator David Perdue: We Must Remain Vigilant In Protecting Our Homeland WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the attempted terrorist attack in New York City: “Today was the second terrorist attack on our nation’s largest city in two months. Both events are a byproduct of our broken immigration system. The perpetrator of the October attack entered the U.S. through the visa lottery. The suspect in today’s attack entered through chain migration. We must remain vigilant in protecting ourselves, our homeland, and our interests abroad. As today’s failed attack has shown, radical terrorists will not succeed in their mission. I join the country in thanking all of New York’s finest today for their swift action and bravery as we continue to root out terrorism both at home and abroad.” Background The suspect in custody is believed to have entered the United States from Bangladesh through extended family chain migration. Senator Perdue has introduced the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act to end chain migration, eliminate the outdated visa lottery program, and create a merit-based immigration system. Read more information on the RAISE Act here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.08.2017	12.08.17 Senator David Perdue: Tax Changes Are A Win For Americans “We need to keep this tax rate competitive and get it as low as possible” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor about the positive impact the Republican tax cut plan will have on American families, workers, and businesses. Click here to watch or click on the image below. What This Means For Individuals: “These changes to the tax code are a win for American families, American workers, and American businesses. A family of four making the median income of $73,000 a year will see their tax bill go down by $2,200 a month. That's a 60% reduction in their federal income tax. A single parent with one child making the median income will get a 75% tax cut. The individual mandate that was unleashed on the American people by Obamacare is eliminated.” Impact Of Corporate Tax Cut: “When it comes to the corporate rate, I've seen how important it is for Americans to compete with their counterparts around the world. The most stimulative part of the tax bill is this corporate tax cut because of the impact it will have on our businesses and workers, and because it creates a level playing field with the rest of the world.” No Corporate Changes In Conference: “Both the House and the Senate agreed on a 20% corporate rate. Now there’s some talk about changing it in conference. The purpose of this conference is to work out the differences and mold those into a final bill that both the House and Senate can vote on. My question for this body and this conference is what’s the difference between 20% and 20%? I don’t quite understand this.” Level The Playing Field: “The best thing we can do for people in the United States who work with their hands and punch a timecard every day—just like did I when I was working my way through college—is to create a level playing field with the rest of the world and lower this corporate tax rate. The current rate sends jobs overseas and keeps our workers from competing on a level playing field. We have the best workforce in the history of the world, and yet we have hamstrung them to the point where other companies can come to the United States and buy our companies and take those jobs overseas. We need to keep this tax rate competitive and get it as low as possible, otherwise other countries will immediately lower their rate and we'll still be at a significant disadvantage.” Keep Rates Competitive: “If we don't take bold action right now, we may not get the chance to do so again for another 30 years. We need to make sure we don't get outpaced by other countries, even after we make these tax changes. Let me just describe why this is so important. Today, while the U.S. has a corporate tax rate of 35%, Asia averages 18% and Europe about 20%. If we go to 20%, the rest of the world is going to move. We already know that the United Kingdom is moving to 15%, and others are talking about it as well.” Subject to Acquisitions: “Today, we have a 50% differential in our tax rate and that difference allows companies in other countries to come to this country, buy our companies, and use that tax differential to pay for part of the acquisition cost. That takes jobs overseas and thwarts our ability to compete. Today, there are twice as many foreign companies buying U.S. companies, both "C" Corporations and pass-throughs.” This Should Be Bipartisan: “Members of both sides of the aisle have previously supported many of these changes to the tax code. There was no reason to vote no on this bill. There is no reason not to support it now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.07.2017	12.07.17 Senator David Perdue Blasts Government Funding Process “If we don’t fix this budget process, this fiscal insanity will never end.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, blasts Congress’ broken budget process and Congress’ reliance on temporary funding patches: “Congress’ budget process is a total failure, and in my opinion, a fraud perpetrated on the American people. It has only worked four times in 43 years. The federal government was supposed to be fully funded 68 days ago on September 30, the end of our fiscal year. Instead, Washington has given itself another extension. This is insanity. If Congress were any other entity, it would have been working day and night in the months prior to September 30 to ensure this deadline was met. If we don’t fix this budget process, this fiscal insanity will never end. Coming from the business world, it’s obvious to me that Congress needs a budget process that funds the government by the end of the fiscal year every single year. This allows our military to plan for our national defense and our business communities to develop long-term plans. It’s time to put politics aside and be responsible about our government’s finances.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.06.2017	12.06.17 Senator David Perdue Addresses Local Elected Officials At White House “Georgia is leading the way” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Vice President Mike Pence, and senior Trump Administration officials joined Georgia county commissioners and state legislators at a White House event this week highlighting how Georgia is leading at the national level to help influence and shape major policy decisions impacting the people of Georgia and our country. Click here or on the image below to download photos. Click here to download b-roll video. Highlights: Best State For Business: “This is the fifth year in a row that Georgia has been named the best state in the country in which to do business. That doesn’t happen by accident. It happens because we’re business friendly. We have great people and great workers, and we have state legislators that are from the real world – people who come for 40 or 45 days and then go home to their businesses or professions to make a living for their family. I believe that keeps you in direct contact with what’s important.” Leading The Way: “I want to highlight a few Georgians who are serving in this Administration: our former governor, Sonny Perdue, is doing a great job as Secretary of Agriculture; Nick Ayers is the Vice President’s Chief of Staff; Billy Kirkland is Deputy Director of Intergovernmental Affairs for the White House. Tom Graves and Doug Collins are in different forms of leadership in the House. Johnny Isakson is leading the charge for our veterans. Zippy Duvall is President of the Farm Bureau and making a big difference. Chris Wray is our FBI Director. Ashley Bell is Director of External Affairs for the Peace Corps. Major General Bob McMahon from Warner Robins is an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and we’ve nominated and confirmed several U.S. attorneys and federal judges from Georgia.” Making A Serious Impact: “Many of the people you’ve heard from today have Georgia roots. It’s clear that the state of Georgia is hitting way above our weight class. We’re the eighth largest state in the country population wise and we’re making a serious impact up here.” Senator Perdue and Vice President Pence were joined by several Georgia natives serving in the Trump administration, including Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue; Vice President Pence’s Chief of Staff, Nick Ayers; and White House Intergovernmental Affairs Deputy Director, Billy Kirkland. Representatives from the Small Business Administration, Departments of Transportation, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Energy and Education, and Housing and Urban Development also addressed the group. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.06.2017	12.06.17 Senator David Perdue Acts To Roll Back Dodd-Frank Regulations “This is a huge win for America’s small businesses and will promote economic growth” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, joined Republicans and Democrats in passing the most significant rollback of financial regulations since Dodd-Frank was enacted: “This is a huge win for America’s small businesses and will promote economic growth. At a time when it seems Washington cannot agree on much, this was a major bipartisan action in the U.S. Senate to roll back significant Dodd-Frank provisions. This is one step closer to unraveling the current regulatory environment that has hurt Georgia’s community and regional banks for too long. We will continue working with Secretary Mnuchin and the Trump Administration to eliminate even more harmful regulations for consumers and business.” The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act, provides major regulatory relief for Georgia’s community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, regional banks, and custody banks, none of whom contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. The proposal also improves important consumer protections, particularly for veterans, senior citizens, and victims of fraud. The bill passed the Banking Committee with a bipartisan vote of 16-7, and can be viewed here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.06.2017	12.06.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Decision On Jerusalem WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem at the capital of Israel: “It’s long overdue we send a powerful message of support to one of our closest allies, Israel. I commend President Trump for taking continued steps to reaffirm the United States’ relationship with Israel after years of questionable policies from the Obama Administration. As a new U.S. Senator, I made my first international trip to Israel and personally met with Prime Minister Netanyahu. By recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, the President is recognizing both an historic and modern reality, Jerusalem is the center for the Jewish people and all parts of Israeli government reside there today. President Trump has shown Israel is a priority, and we will continue to work together in support of our longtime friend and ally.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.05.2017	12.05.17 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Discusses RAISE Act At Center For Immigration Studies Event WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Dr. Michael Teitelbaum, former Vice Chair of the Jordan Commission, at a Center for Immigration Studies event to discuss the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act and why it should be included in any solution to fix our country’s immigration problems. Click here to watch or click on the image below. (From L-R: Mark Krikorian, Executive Director, Center for Immigration Studies; Dr. Michael Teitelbaum, former Vice Chair of the Jordan Commission; Jessica Vaughan, Director of Policy Studies, Center for Immigration Studies; U.S. Senator David Perdue) Different World: “Congress hasn’t done anything to our immigration system since 1990. That’s almost thirty years ago. In 1990, the Internet really wasn’t used for the most part. What we have is an entirely different world now with an immigration system in the United States that does not meet the needs of our country.” Three Prong Issue: “Immigration has serval dimensions to it. First, it is a national security issue. Secondly, it is an economic issue, as we have proven over the last 230 years of our history as America. Third, it has humanitarian dimensions to it as well. There are some 65 million refugees around the world today.” Targeted Approach: “We tried to put the RAISE Act into context as it relates to national security, economic needs, and humanitarian needs. What we didn’t do, is what Congress often tries to do, and that’s try and solve the comprehensive problem all at once.” Majority Of Americans Agree: “This bill is pro-worker, pro-growth and it has been proven to work. Seventy-two percent of Americans support an immigration system that is limited to the worker and to the workers’ immediate family. 72%! I challenge you to find another topic where you can get 70% of Americans to agree.” Solution For Legal Immigration: “We’re trying to engage the Senate to make something happen to where we can get a solution on the legal immigration side. In my opinion, any solution to the immigration problem must include the RAISE Act and the end of chain migration in America.” Drawing From Best Practices: “The RAISE Act is very simple. This is just one piece of what I think is the ultimate solution to our immigration problem. You have to start with a high ground and that’s what we have tried to do. We looked at other countries to find best practices, and we really like what was recommended by the Jordon Commission back in the nineties.” Merit-Based System: “We looked at the things that make people contributory to our economy, as well as maintained a refugee category and eliminated what is called the visa lottery. There are merit-based skills that we looked at—basically education, job, age, investment, accomplishment, and English—and compiled a 100-point scale system.” Ending Chain Migration: “We are letting current immigrants determine who future immigrants are going to be under this current immigration system. I would argue that is not contributory to an economy in the situation we are in today. This is a system that is absolutely screaming to be reformed.” Calling Out A Crisis: “Congress typically functions very well in a crisis. Tom Cotton and I are calling this out as a crisis. If you want to grow the economy, you have to fix your immigration system. If you want to fix your national security system, you have to fix your immigration system. You certainly can’t ignore it.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Republican Senators Author Plan to Resolve DACA Situation, Improve Integrity & Confidence in Immigration System WASHINGTON, D.C. – A group of senators led by Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) today introduced legislation to protect and provide certainty to DACA recipients, and improve the lawful immigration system by targeting illegal immigration and criminal aliens. The Security, Enforcement, and Compassion United in Reform Efforts, (SECURE) Act contains provisions from several immigration proposals, including Senator Dick Durbin’s (D-IL) bipartisan BRIDGE Act, which protects DACA recipients from deportation. The SECURE Act is cosponsored by senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and David Perdue (R-GA). “This legislation combines common sense border security and interior enforcement reforms with Senators Graham’s and Durbin’s bipartisan solution on DACA. It restores integrity to our immigration system by cracking down on illegal immigration and criminal immigrants, while recognizing the circumstances of those brought here through no fault of their own. This bill improves public safety and prosperity for Americans and immigrants alike, and ensures tragedies like the deaths of Kate Steinle and Sarah Root never happen again. This is a bill that our colleagues from both sides of the aisle should be able to support. President Trump is ready and willing to sign it, so it’s time for Congress to get it done,” Chairman Grassley said. “This bill provides a real, bipartisan solution for those brought here by their parents illegally who now find themselves in limbo. The SECURE Act gives us the chance to both help these young adults and win back public confidence by securing our borders and enforcing our immigration laws,” Senator Cornyn said. “Congress has a responsibility to secure our borders and address the legal uncertainty facing the DACA-eligible population. The SECURE Act takes concrete steps to accomplish both objectives by helping prevent future illegal immigration while providing Congress with more time to work on a long-term solution for undocumented children,” Senator Tillis said. “An essential part of national security is border security. Every nation has the right to know who comes into their country. For decades, the United States has ignored obvious issues in our immigration policy, which has only made the problem worse. The President and many Members of Congress believe a DACA solution should be combined with a permanent fix to the many broken elements in our nation’s border security and immigration system. The SECURE Act is a first step to bring everyone to the table to negotiate a common-sense solution to DACA and issues related to illegal immigration. It is my hope that in the months ahead, Republicans and Democrats will come together so that we can provide the certainty that families deserve and the border security our country desperately needs,” Senator Lankford said. “This bill draws upon ideas supported by members of both parties to provide legal status to the thousands of young people who are here through no fault of their own—without encouraging more illegal immigration in the future. This legislation would go a long way to building an immigration system that supports the American worker, and there’s simply no good reason for either party to oppose it,” Senator Cotton said. “Our outdated and broken immigration system is an economic and national security issue that we have got to fix. As it stands today, our immigration policies encourage illegal immigration, existing laws are being ignored by rogue cities, and our country’s southern border is not secure. Furthermore, green-cards are primarily awarded through a chain migration system that does not prioritize skill and merit. In this proposal, we’ve taken steps to fix these problems and more. It’s time we have an immigration system that meets our country’s economic needs, protects our national security, prioritizes the well-being of Americans, and truly discourages illegal immigration,” Senator Perdue said. The SECURE Act includes various border security provisions, such as additional human and technological resources on the border and fencing in certain areas. It also provides more judicial resources to reduce backlogs in immigration court and target fraud. The bill seeks to improve community safety and cooperation by eliminating so-called “sanctuary” policies that inhibit enforcement and it provides expedited removal for individuals involved in certain criminal activities. The SECURE Act permanently reauthorizes the proven E-Verify program and encourages greater voluntary enrollment to strengthen our legal workforce and encourage legal immigration. It also limits family migration to spouses and minor children. Finally, the bill includes the BRIDGE Act, which was cosponsored by senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Chuck Schumer ( D-N.Y.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.). This bill protects the status of the approximately 690,000 current DACA recipients for three years. Legislative text is available HERE.
12.05.2017	12.05.17 What They Are Saying: Industry Leaders Praise Bipartisan Plan To Reduce Dodd-Frank Regulations Senate Banking Committee To Vote On Plan TODAY WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at 10:00am ET, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and members of the Senate Banking Committee will amend and vote on the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act, a bipartisan plan to roll back significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act. This bill will provide regulatory relief for community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, regional banks, and custody banks, none of whom contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. It also improves important consumer protections, particularly for veterans, senior citizens, and victims of fraud. Three bills sponsored by Senator Perdue are included in this bipartisan agreement: the Reciprocal Deposits Bill, the Portfolio Lending and Mortgage Access Act, and the PROTECT Act. Here’s a look at key industry leaders and bipartisan groups are saying about the bill: BIPARTISAN POLICY CENTER: “As U.S. politics descends ever further into partisanship, there are still signs that old-fashioned legislating is not dead. This week, the Senate Banking Committee will mark up one of the first significant pieces of financial regulatory legislation in years with real bipartisan support. . . These are not major changes. Yet taken together, they are constructive and should provide greater incentives to extend credit, particularly to Main Street small businesses, without undermining the progress made since the crisis in making the financial system safer.” – John Soroushian and Justin Schardin, Bipartisan Policy Center INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA: “The markup of S. 2155 is a rare opening for real, impactful relief that will strengthen economic growth, job creation, and consumer protection. It is the culmination of years of collaborative effort to achieve consensus among members of Congress across the spectrum and community bankers in their home states and districts. Community bankers urge all members of the Senate Banking Committee to vote YES on S. 2155.” – Camden Fine, ICBA President and CEO CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION: “This bill includes credit union-specific provisions that provide meaningful regulatory relief, a sign that policymakers are paying close attention to the needs of credit union members. We thank Sen. Crapo and his colleagues for working across party lines to advance regulatory relief legislation that benefits community financial institutions, and look forward to continuing to work closely with them as the bill moves through the legislative process.” – Jim Nussle, CUNA President and CEO CONSUMER BANKERS ASSOCIATION: “We appreciate the Senate’s bipartisan effort to enact regulatory reform which helps banks better serve American consumers and small businesses. The agreement makes some meaningful regulatory changes, including providing the Federal Reserve flexibility to make a more complete assessment when designating certain institutions systematically important. This is a significant first step and we urge Congress to continue working toward policies which consider risk rather than arbitrary asset thresholds.” – Richard Hunt, CBA President and CEO AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION: “ABA welcomes today’s announcement of a bipartisan Senate agreement on legislation that would reform our nation’s financial regulatory rules. The deal reached today by Chairman Crapo and Senators Tester, Heitkamp, Donnelly and Warner shows that lawmakers of good faith from both parties can agree on commonsense changes to allow banks to better serve their customers and communities. We thank them for their leadership, and look forward to working with senators to move this legislation forward, and to improve it where possible.” - Rob Nichols, ABA President and CEO GEORGIA BANKERS ASSOCIATION: “We appreciate the hard work of Senator David Perdue on behalf of the bankers and consumers in Georgia. We are more hopeful that true relief can be accomplished in the near future so that Georgia bankers can continue to serve their communities in even more meaningful ways.”- Joe Brannen, President & CEO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEDERALLY-INSURED CREDIT UNIONS: “NAFCU thanks Chairman Crapo and his Democratic partners in the Senate for including provisions in this package that would lead to regulatory relief for credit unions. We look forward to working with members of the Senate Banking Committee, their staff and other senators as this package moves through the legislative process. This bill is a step in the right direction, and we will continue to push for more relief for the industry and its 110 million member-owners.” - Dan Berger, NAFCU President and CEO FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE: “This bipartisan effort is directionally positive as it seeks to modernize regulations while protecting consumers and driving economic growth. Today’s announcement shows Chairman Crapo and his bipartisan co-sponsors are working hard to improve the financial experience of consumers.” – Tim Pawlenty, FSR CEO MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCATION: “I want to commend Chairman Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) for reaching a bipartisan compromise on regulatory relief legislation designed to lessen some burdens on lenders, allowing them to better serve their customers and consumers. In particular, MBA is glad to see the inclusion of language amending the SAFE Act to provide increased job mobility for loan originators, as well as language to address concerns with PACE lending, HMDA, and the TILA/RESPA integrated disclosure. We look forward to continuing to work with the committee on other provisions in the bill, such as expanding the language regarding Qualified Mortgages held in portfolio." – David H. Stevens, President and CEO of the Mortgage Bankers Association U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE: “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports S. 2155, the ‘Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act,’ which would provide long-overdue relief to Main Street businesses and consumers . . . The Chamber strongly supports tailored regulations—sophisticated rules that are properly calibrated to the risk profile of an activity or institution. S. 2155 is a first step in the right direction.” – Neal L. Bradley, Senior Vice President and Chief Policy Officer, U.S. Chamber of Commerce NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS: “On behalf of the more than 140,000 members of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), I am writing in strong support for your efforts in S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act to address the challenging credit conditions that home builders and home buyers continue to experience as a result of the regulatory response to the recent financial crisis.” – James W. Tobin III, Executive Vice President and Chief Lobbyist, National Association of Home Builders ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.04.2017	12.04.17 Fact vs. Fiction: Senator Perdue Lays Out The Facts About Tax On Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Shannon Bream on Fox News @ Night to clear up the misinformation about the U.S. Senate’s plan to fix the tax code, help middle-class families, and make America more competitive again. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Fiction: The GOP tax plan will add $1 trillion to the national debt. Fact: “I am more optimistic that this plan is going to ignite our economy. President Trump said job one was getting our economy going again. We pulled back on regulations, unleashed our energy potential, and now we have an historic opportunity to change the tax code and make American companies and workers competitive again with the rest of the world.” Fiction: This tax plan is only going to help the wealthy and hurt lower and middle-income Americans. Fact: “Real Americans are going to benefit from this. A family of four, making the median income of $73,000 a year, will have their taxes cut almost 60%. A single mom with one child, making $41,000 a year, which is the median income for a single worker, will get a 75% tax cut. More importantly, between 3-6 million people are estimated to have their taxes go to zero. The greatest beneficiary of this plan is the person who will get a job because the economy is going to be ignited.” Fiction: There has been no transparency to this process. The entire process was hidden from the American people and pushed through at the last minute. Fact: “Over the last few years, there have been over 70 open hearings in the Senate about changing the tax code. This has been a fully transparent process. I hear the rhetoric from the other side. This is all coming from the side who a few years ago had then-Speaker Pelosi say ‘you’ve got to pass the bill to see what’s in it.’ This has been an open process the entire time. This is regular order. It went through committee, where we had amendments offered. We’ll have amendments added to it tonight. All of this has been done in the light of day.” Fiction: The tax plan will generate very little economic growth. Fact: “President Trump has really pushed us to make sure this plan will make American businesses grow. I believe we have accomplished that. Today, we have the highest corporate tax rate in the world, and the corporate tax rate is a huge penalty on the American worker. I know because I’ve lived in Asia and worked all over the world. We are now going to become more competitive with the rest of the world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture
12.03.2017	12.03.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Historic Tax Cuts On Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures With Maria Bartiromo about the historic action the U.S. Senate took to fix the tax code, help middle-class families, and make America more competitive again. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Making History: “The U.S. Senate passed a historic tax bill, the first one since 1986. I'm very excited because this will be so stimulative for our economy. Our workers will become competitive again and capital formation is coming out of the woodwork to support this economy. I’m extremely pleased we got this done.” Growing The Economy: “The maligned Joint Committee on Taxation says you only have to grow two-tenths of 1% in our GDP to more than pay for these tax cuts and the Congressional Budget Office estimates four-tenths of 1%. President Trump said job one is growing the economy, by rolling back regulations, going after our energy potential, which we've done, and now fixing the tax code. What we've got is a situation where this economy is going to grow.” Back In Business: “As a business guy who lived and worked around the world, I have full confidence this tax package is going to be so stimulative. The rest of the world woke up Saturday morning and took a deep breath because they were so afraid we weren't going to do this. America is back in business globally.” Relief For Working Families: “The benefit for individuals is not to be ignored. Sixty-eight percent of the tax cuts in this bill go to individuals. A family of four, a couple with two kids, making a median income of $73,000 will get a 60% tax cut. A single mom, with one child, making $41,000 gets a 75% tax cut. This is a great day for the middle class.” Bringing Back Investment: “This is capitalism. Capital flow is very important in the generation of jobs and economic growth and that's what happens whether it's in dividends or training. We’ve been in a recession now for over eight years. This is the lowest period of economic growth in our history. What we're going to find is a lot of capital will come back to our shores because of the details of this tax package.” Final Package: “In many ways over the last week, the Senate tax plan began to move toward the House of Representatives’ plan which is a good thing. In fact, some are saying maybe the House could go ahead and vote on the Senate version. We're not asking for that yet but it got so close that I think that's a possibility.” Clearing Up Misinformation: “Democrats know that 68% of these tax cuts are going to individuals. We're making America competitive again with the rest of the world, by lowering the tax rate to 20%. The person who is going to benefit the most from this tax plan is the person that gets a job.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
12.02.2017	12.02.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Historic Tax Cuts “We delivered on an historic opportunity to cut taxes and fix the archaic tax code” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate took historic action to fix the tax code: “For years, American workers and companies have struggled to compete with the rest of the world. Not anymore. Today, we delivered on an historic opportunity to cut taxes and fix the archaic tax code. This is a major win for the American people. Lower tax rates for individuals and businesses will raise wages, grow the economy, and make our country competitive again. We will see a boost in consumer and CEO confidence, which have already reached their highest levels in decades. As a business guy, I know these tax changes will stimulate the economy and create the growth we need to solve this debt crisis. President Trump and Vice President Pence worked in lock step with the Senate to get this done. They gave us a clear objective: pass a plan that will change American lives by putting people back to work, putting more money back in their pockets, and making American businesses competitive once again. Today, I’m very proud to say, we got this done.” ###
11.29.2017	11.29.17 Senator David Perdue: This Is About Tax Relief For The American Worker “A family of four, making the median income of $71,000 a year, is going to get a 60% tax cut with this plan WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Dean Heller (R-NV) and grassroots leaders held an event today to highlight the positive impact changing the tax code will have on American families, businesses, and the economy. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Relief For Working Americans: “On the individual side, there’s been a lot of talk that the rich are getting all the benefits. This couldn’t be further from the truth. A family of four, making the median income of $71,000 a year, is going to get a 60% tax cut with this plan. A single parent with one child, making $41,000 a year, is going to get a 75% tax cut.” Solving The Debt Crisis: “Long-term we have to solve this debt crisis. Cutting taxes and changing the tax code will not solve the debt crisis, but the debt crisis will not be solved unless and until we fix our archaic tax policy.” Getting A Deal Done: “I’m one of those business guys who needed that certainty to make capital investment decisions over a longer period of time. I would prefer not to have a trigger, but this is about getting a deal done and getting a tax package for the American people, which they expect. I come from a world where you really don’t ever get 100% of what you want. I don’t want to see this bill destroyed because of pursuit for perfection. We’ve seen that before in Washington.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.28.2017	11.28.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Budget Committee Approval Of Tax Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate moved one step closer to fixing our tax code this year: “Changing our tax code for the first time in more than 30 years will increase wages for American workers and make us more competitive with the rest of the world. These tax changes will also increase GDP growth, which is necessary to solve our current debt crisis. If the Senate does not act, the federal government is on track to add $11 trillion to the debt over the next 10 years. Approval from the Budget Committee today was one of the final steps needed to get this across the finish line. It is now critical for Republicans and Democrats to put aside any self-interests and operate with a sense of urgency to get these tax changes done now.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.22.2017	11.22.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Drivers To Use Caution During Holiday Season ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) applaud the U.S. Senate for unanimously passing their resolution designating the Sunday after Thanksgiving – the nation’s busiest highway traffic day of the year – as “Drive Safer Sunday.” The senators’ resolution encourages everyone – from learning institutions, trucking firms, clergy, and law enforcement – to promote safe driving habits and work together to help make roads safer for travelers. “I appreciate the support shown by senators across the country to again remind drivers to approach the holiday season with caution on the roadways and help prevent potentially tragic accidents,” said Senator Isakson. “We should all slow down, pay close attention to the road and take extra care when traveling, especially during the holidays. We thank the first responders, medical professionals and law enforcement who set aside their holiday time to help others.” “As we approach one of the busiest travel times of the year, I’m grateful to my fellow senators for recognizing ‘Drive Safer Sunday,’” said Senator Perdue. “Please slow down and be extra cautious when traveling to celebrate the holidays with loved ones. I wish all Georgians a happy and safe holiday season, and our thanks go out to law enforcement officers for all they do to keep us safe, especially during this time of the year.” The “Drive Safer Sunday” resolution is in memory of Cullum Owings, a Georgia college student who died in 2002 in a traffic accident on his way back to school after Thanksgiving. Cullum Owings’ parents, Steve and Susan Owings of Atlanta, founded an organization called Road Safe America in honor of their son to bring awareness to the hazards of highway travel and provide statistics and safety tips to drivers. Road Safe America’s goals include better driver training for all drivers and limiting the top speed for large trucks. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates that simply wearing a seat belt saves as many as 15,000 lives a year. For more information on safe driving tips and what you can do to improve the safety of America’s roadways, please visit: www.roadsafeamerica.org. ###
11.21.2017	11.21.17 Senator David Perdue Holds Farm Bill Round Table Discussion ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) last week held a round table discussion about the upcoming farm bill with Georgia farmers and industry leaders. To download photos, click here or on the image below. “Agriculture is one of Georgia’s largest economic drivers and a way of life for many people in our state. I saw this firsthand while working on my family’s farm as a teenager,” said Senator Perdue. “It was great to hear from Georgia farmers and industry leaders about their priorities for the upcoming farm bill since this legislation impacts them directly. Their input is critical as we work toward developing a farm bill that will contribute to a safer, stronger, and more abundant agricultural industry.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.21.2017	11.21.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Re-Designation Of North Korea As A State Sponsor Of Terrorism WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s action to re-designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism and impose additional sanctions on the country: "Since being removed from the state sponsors of terrorism list in 2008, North Korea has proven through actions like the Sony hack and the chemical weapons hit on Kim Jong Nam that it continues to be a global terror threat. President Trump is right to send the message that the U.S. will not sit back and allow North Korea to continue these provocative actions. Reigning in North Korea’s destabilizing behavior will require support and cooperation from all countries in the region, not just our allies. During President Trump’s recent trip to Asia, he worked to strengthen partnerships with these countries to put more pressure on North Korea. This designation and these additional sanctions reaffirm President Trump’s commitment to stand firm against North Korean provocations, and a nuclear North Korea.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.20.2017	11.20.17 Senator David Perdue Announces New State Director Ben Fry ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced Ben Fry as his new State Director, who will oversee all state operations and manage field representatives across the state. “Ben will do a fantastic job serving Georgians as our new State Director,” said Senator Perdue. “Ben has an extensive career helping Georgians and knows our state very well. He will be a valuable asset on our team as we work to tackle our nation’s toughest issues and get results for Georgians.” “It is an honor to join Senator Perdue’s staff,” said Ben Fry. “He has assembled an incredible team, and I am thrilled to join them to help Georgians and advance our state’s priorities.” Fry most recently served as Vice President of State Government Affairs at UnitedHealth Group. He previously held roles as Chief of Staff for Lt. Governor Casey Cagle, Special Assistant to then Governor Sonny Perdue, Executive Director of the Georgia Republican Party, and campaign manager for a gubernatorial campaign. Fry is a graduate of the University of Georgia and resides in Atlanta. He is replacing outgoing State Director Joyce White, who is now serving as the Georgia State Director of Rural Development for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Download Ben Fry’s headshot here. Locate Senator Perdue’s field representatives in your area here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Senator David Perdue Announces Bipartisan Agreement To Reduce Dodd-Frank Regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and 17 members on the Senate Banking Committee have drafted a bipartisan proposal to roll back significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act, providing regulatory relief for Georgia’s community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, regional banks, and custody banks, none of whom contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. The proposal also improves important consumer protections, particularly for veterans, senior citizens, and victims of fraud. “This is a huge win for our rural communities, small businesses, and the banks supporting them,” said Senator David Perdue. “This proposal will improve access to capital for small businesses, particularly in Georgia’s rural communities who have struggled with overregulation. In addition to this proposal, there is still work to be done. We will continue working with Secretary Mnuchin and the Trump Administration to eliminate even more regulations for consumers and business.” “We appreciate the hard work of Senator David Perdue on behalf of the bankers and consumers in Georgia,” said Joe Brannen, President & CEO of the Georgia Bankers Association. “We are more hopeful that true relief can be accomplished in the near future so that Georgia bankers can continue to serve their communities in even more meaningful ways.” Last spring, the Senate Banking Committee issued a request for legislative proposals from stakeholders, companies, and consumers aimed at creating economic growth. The committee then held a series of hearings exploring these ideas and has been drafting this proposal since that time. Democrats agreed that significant regulations of Dodd-Frank were negatively impacting local economics across the nation and joined Republicans in drafting this proposal. Three key bills sponsored by Senator Perdue are included in this agreement: the Reciprocal Deposits Bill, the Portfolio Lending and Mortgage Access Act, and the PROTECT Act, which simplifies the credit freezing process. View the proposal’s text here and a summary here. Highlights of the bipartisan package include: Improves consumer access to mortgage credit; Provides regulatory relief for small financial institutions and protects consumer access to credit; Provides specific protections for veterans, consumers and homeowners; and Tailors regulations for banks to better reflect their business models. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Senator David Perdue Supports Critical Annual Defense Bill Bill increases troops' pay, expands military, improves resources WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded the passage of Congress’ annual defense bill, which he and a team negotiated between the House and Senate. The final bill included 30 of Senator Perdue’s priorities important to Georgians and now heads to President Trump for his signature. “Sixteen years at war, six years of arbitrary defense budget cuts, and Washington's broken budget process have resulted in a military readiness gap and depleted resources.” said Senator Perdue. “However, this year’s defense bill takes critical steps to support and modernize our all-volunteer force. The Armed Services Committees fought to ensure our troops are equipped with the resources they need as they carry out their mission, including assets unique to Georgia such as the JSTARS fleet. Making sure we have a clear understanding of how the Pentagon is using its resources is key to strengthening our capabilities. That’s why we’ve required the Department of Defense to prepare its financial statements to produce an audit by the end of 2018. This is a step in the right direction but our armed forces need to be able to rely on steady and continued support from Congress.” Background As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and NDAA conferee, Senator Perdue was an active participant in discussions around this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The defense bill includes the below provisions important to Georgia’s military community: Funding for use of Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) fleet, as well as language regarding the recapitalization plan and prohibition for retiring the fleet, which is flown out of Robins Air Force Base; Joint-use of the runway at Dobbins Air Force Base; Construction for a Combat Vehicle Warehouse at Albany Marine Corps Logistic Base; Upgrades to the air traffic control tower at Fort Benning, Georgia; Production of 20 C-130J Super Hercules aircraft manufactured in Marietta, Georgia; Construction funds for the Air Force Reserve Command mission complex at Robins Air Force Base; Upgrades to the A-10C Warthog wing, which will help preserve close-air support capability provided by units like those at Moody Air Force Base; Expansion of cyber operations, including operations at Fort Gordon; Upgrades to 85 M1A2 Abrams tanks and 93 Bradley Fighting vehicles, which will benefit the armored brigade combat teams at Fort Stewart. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Future Of Consumer Financial Protection Bureau WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Banking Committee, commented on the resignation of Richard Cordray, Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): “If we can’t immediately eliminate the CFPB or bring it under Congressional oversight, we need someone to take the helm who will help undo the damage that’s already been done.” Senator Perdue is leading the effort in the Senate to hold the CFPB accountable, protect consumers’ personal information, and void the bureau’s regulatory overreaches. Even the liberal-leaning DC Circuit Court ruled the CFPB is unconstitutionally structured and recommended giving more of the bureau’s powers to the president. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senator David Perdue: Tax Plan An Investment That Will Help All Americans “Many Democrats supported the changes we’re talking about in the tax code right up until President Trump took office.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor about the Senate’s tax plan and the positive impact a tax overhaul will have on our country. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Why Tax Matters: “The corporate tax rate is the greatest burden the American worker has today. Why? Because it makes American corporations less competitive with the rest of the world. It also makes American corporations vulnerable to foreign acquisitions, and then moving those headquarters, factories, and jobs offshore. The number one thing we can do for the American worker is become competitive, from a tax standpoint, with the rest of the world. I lived in Asia and Europe. I know when this gets out of balance and it is out of balance today and we are penalizing the American worker because of it. It is no secret that a lower corporate tax rate will make us more competitive globally.” 2.4 Million Words: “We have an individual tax code that's 2.4 million words in length. Let me say that again: 2.4 million words in length. That’s ridiculous, and it’s entirely too complex. Our plan will fix this.” Jobs & GDP Growth: “It’s estimated that this tax plan will create almost 1 million new jobs. It’s estimated that, in addition to that, the GDP growth will be more like 3.7% instead of the 1.9% we got used to over the last eight years.” Not A Partisan Issue: “Many Democrats supported the changes that we’re talking about in the tax code right up until President Trump took office. In fact, over the last several decades, many Democrats agreed.” President Obama, 2011: “Get rid of the loopholes. Level the playing field. And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years.” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, 2015: “Today, 28 OECD countries and every other G-7 country has adopted some form of territorial system – and all of these countries have lower corporate tax rates than the United States. This means that no matter what jurisdiction a U.S. multinational company is competing in, they are competing at a disadvantage.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, 2016: “It is long past time for tax reform that would lower the corporate rate.” President Kennedy, 1962: “I repeat: our practical choice is not between a tax-cut deficit and a budgetary surplus. It is between two kinds of deficits: a chronic deficit of inertia, as the unwanted result of inadequate revenues and a restricted economy … or a temporary deficit of transition, resulting from a tax cut designed to boost the economy. … The first type of deficit is a sign of waste and weakness; the second reflects an investment in the future.” Investment In The Future: “Our tax plan is an investment in our future. It’s an investment that will help all Americans. Equally important as getting it done to help all Americans, it’s a critical part of developing a long-term plan to solve our national debt crisis.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Effort To Allow Joint-Use of Dobbins Air Force Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, led the effort with the Georgia Congressional Delegation, including Senator Isakson and Congressman Loudermilk, and local leaders to allow for joint-use of the runway at Dobbins Air Force Base in the final version of the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. “The Dobbins runway has been a critical asset to Cobb County and the U.S. Air Force for years. However, an outdated law has prevented the base from being utilized to its fullest potential. Not only would these public-private partnerships help offset operating costs and create jobs at Dobbins, but they also would help create a stronger relationship with the surrounding community. Given my seat at the table for the annual defense bill this year, we were able to fight for priorities important to our national security and Georgia’s military community, including this welcome change at Dobbins.” Background: As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and NDAA conferee, Senator Perdue was an active participant in discussions around this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The Dobbins joint-use amendment was included in the version of the bill passed on the Senate floor in September. Senator Perdue worked within his role on the Armed Services Committee to ensure the amendment was included in the final version of the defense bill, including leading a Georgia delegation letter to NDAA conferees. The Senate is tentatively scheduled to pass the final defense bill after the Thanksgiving holiday. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Army Secretary, Dr. Mark Esper WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, congratulates Dr. Mark Esper, on being confirmed as President Trump’s Secretary of the Army: To download a high-resolution photo, click here or on the image below. “Dr. Mark Esper rounds out the impressive and qualified group leading our country’s military branches,” said Senator Perdue. “With critical Army assets in my home state of Georgia, including the U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence, the Army Cyber Center of Excellence, and the 3rd Infantry Division, there’s no doubt Dr. Esper and I will be working together closely. There is much to do to strengthen troop readiness and capabilities, and address future challenges. I’m confident Dr. Esper will do an excellent job leading our nation’s Army to meet ever-changing global threats.” Background: Georgia is home to four U.S. Army installations: Ft. Stewart in Hinesville, Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah, Ft. Benning in Columbus, and Ft. Gordon in Augusta. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue, Inhofe Recognize U.S. Army’s 3rd Infantry Division Commemorate the 100th Anniversary of Infantry Unit Based At Georgia’s Fort Stewart WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), David Perdue (R-GA), and Jim Inhofe (R-OK) are leading the Senate in recognizing the 100th anniversary of the U.S. Army’s 3rd Infantry Division based at Fort Stewart, Georgia on November 21, 2017. “Since its inception, the work of the 3rd Infantry Division has been legendary. ‘The Rock of the Marne,’ has held fast in protecting our nation and our the ideals of freedom around the world for 100 years,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I could not be more proud of the men and women who have served in this division, and I am honored to recognize their sacrifices and achievements on behalf of the United States.” “Georgia has a rich, proud military history and the U.S. Army’s 3rd Infantry Division is a key part of that tradition,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This year, we celebrate 100 years of the Army’s premier fighting force that continues to exemplify its hard-earned motto, ‘Nous resterons la!’ translated means, ‘We shall remain here!’ With units deployed today across four combatant commands, in more than 20 countries, and under five named operations, the 3rd Infantry Division continues to add to its impressive century of service. I’m grateful for their service to our nation and congratulate them on this distinguished milestone.” “Since 1917, the soldiers of the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division have served their country with honor and distinction,” said Senator Inhofe, co-chair of the Senate Army Caucus. “From the Marne river bank in WWI, to the shores of Northern Africa and across Europe in World War II, deployments in support of operations in Bosnia, Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan, they have defended America and advanced freedom and democracy around the world. With one of the most successful combat records in the Army, the 3d Infantry Division has truly lived up to their motto: ‘We shall remain here.’ I am grateful to co-sponsor this resolution to recognize the remarkable service of the Third Infantry Division and our nation’s gratitude to its soldiers, veterans and families.” The 3rd Infantry Division was first based at Camp Greene, North Carolina in 1917 and has been in continuous service to the nation since then. From its inception, the 3rd Infantry Division has played a vital role in the history of the United States, serving notably in World War I, World War II, Desert Storm, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and Operation Resolute Support. Currently, the 3rd Infantry Division consists of two Armored Brigade Combat teams, one Aviation Brigade, a Division Artillery, and support elements. Earlier this year, the U.S. Army completed its conversion of the 3rd Infantry Division’s second Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Fort Stewart to an Armored Brigade Combat Team. This summer, the 3rd Infantry Division Headquarters, the 3rd Combat Aviation Brigade and 3rd Sustainment Brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Resolute Support. Read the full text of the resolution here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.14.2017	11.14.17 Senator David Perdue, Senators Announce Bipartisan Agreement To Reduce Dodd-Frank Regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and members of the Senate Banking Committee have agreed on a proposal to roll back significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act providing regulatory relief for community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, regional banks, and custody banks, none of whom contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. The proposal also improves important consumer protections, particularly for veterans, senior citizens, and victims of fraud. “This agreement is a huge win for our rural communities, small businesses, and the banks supporting them,” said Senator David Perdue. “This proposal will improve access to capital for small businesses, particularly in rural communities who have struggled with overregulation. In addition to this proposal, there is still work to be done. We will continue working with Secretary Mnuchin and the Trump Administration to eliminate even more regulations for consumers and business.” “A strong and vibrant economy is important for American consumers, businesses, and the stability of the financial sector,” said Senator Mike Crapo, Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. “The bipartisan proposals on which we have agreed will significantly improve our financial regulatory framework and foster economic growth by right-sizing regulation, particularly for smaller financial institutions and community banks. I thank all of the senators who have joined with us to move this forward, and look forward to continuing our work to achieve a robust, bipartisan legislative product.” Last spring, the Senate Banking Committee issued a request for legislative proposals from stakeholders, companies, and consumers aimed at creating economic growth. The committee then held a series of hearings exploring these ideas and has been drafting this proposal since that time. Three key bills introduced by Senator Perdue are included in this agreement: the Reciprocal Deposits Bill, the Portfolio Lending and Mortgage Access Act, and the PROTECT Act, which protects consumers’ credit. The bipartisan group of members supporting the proposal includes: Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo (R-ID), Bob Corker (R-TN), Tim Scott (R-SC), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Kennedy (R-LA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Jon Tester (D-MT), Mark Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Gary Peters (D-MI). Highlights of the agreed-upon package include: Improves consumer access to mortgage credit; Provides regulatory relief for small financial institutions and protects consumer access to credit; Provides specific protections for veterans, consumers and homeowners; and Tailors regulations for banks to better reflect their business models. Legislative text is in the process of being finalized and will be released upon completion. For a section-by-section summary, click here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.13.2017	11.13.17 Senator David Perdue: Top Priority Is Helping President Trump Get Results “In my role as the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress, I try to add value on topics that I have experienced in the real world” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Roll Call’s Joe Williams and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution’s Tamar Hallerman on C-SPAN’s Newsmakers about working to advance President Trump’s agenda and getting results for the American people. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Washington Listening Now: “I have said this since I got elected, and certainly since President Trump was elected, that this is not a mandate. We have a probation period of a couple years to see what we can do to get results. So far, this year, 1.5 million jobs have been created in America—that is a watershed event—about 860 rules and regulations have been reversed, illegal crossings at the southern border are down 60%, consumer confidence is at a 16-year high, CEO confidence is at a 20-year high. This is all because they are beginning to see that people in Washington are listening.” Tax Is Top Priority: “We have a tax bill that is being debated right now. My only priority right now is to get results for President Trump. I want to do whatever I can to make President Trump successful. I think every person in America, whether they are a Democrat or Republican, should hope he is successful because that is the future of our country.” Working With White House: “When President Trump calls, I answer the call and try to give the advice I can. He does not want ‘yes’ people around him. It is the most amazing thing, when you sit in the White House in the Oval Office, he listens about 80% of the time. When the meeting is over, he concludes with a summary of what everybody has agreed to do. That is what we do in business, in the real world.” Adding Value: “In my role as the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress, I try to add value on the topics that I have experienced in the real world, like the tax debate. I have lived with that and so we were able to bring value to that conversation. That is my role right now in the Senate.” Reversing Trends: “After eight years of the slowest growth in U.S. history, it is incumbent on us to make sure that we do everything we can to get this economy going. Why? We want to put people back to work. If we do not get growth going, we are vulnerable. Right now, twice as many international companies outside of the United States acquire U.S. companies compared to U.S. companies buying foreign countries. That is a reversal of a few decades ago, and something we have got to reverse back.” Impact Of Corporate Tax Cuts: “I have lived in the business world. I will try to explain how it happens. If you get tax money back, it is capital. It gets invested in equipment, training, software, all the things that make you more competitive. The demand for products and services goes up, that creates more demand for more workers. Therefore, the supply and demand of workers changes, and the price you have to pay to be competitive goes up to attract good workers.” Investing In Our Economy: “The $1.5 trillion in the tax bill is not added to the debt. This is an investment so that we can get at the debt. We have over $100 trillion of future liabilities. In just the next 30 years, we’ll have to deal with Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, pension benefits for federal employees, and the interest on the debt.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate Tax Plan “We are on track to deliver results and fundamentally change this tax code” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on the United States Senate’s plan to simplify the tax code: “We are on track to deliver results and fundamentally change this tax code. There’s no denying the positive impact a tax overhaul will have on our country. This will lead to more job opportunities, more capital at work in our economy, and more savings for taxpayers. President Trump called us into action, and the House and Senate have been working in parallel to get a plan on his desk by the end of the year. Today, with this outline, we are one step closer to accomplishing this goal. You can feel the momentum building, and by the end of the holiday season, taxpayers should have something great to celebrate: tax cuts, a simpler tax code, and a more competitive America.” Background: Senator Perdue recent tax highlights: Led tax event with Treasury Secretary Mnuchin, Kellyanne Conway, and grassroots leaders. Joined CNBC’s Power Lunch to discuss making U.S. businesses more competitive. Shared his business perspective on the benefits of corporate tax changes at The Heritage Foundation. Called for turning the Senate on full time for the remainder of the year to get tax done. Joined CNBC’s Squawk Box to discuss why the budget process is only tax code this year. Spoke on the Senate floor about President Trump’s tax framework. Joined Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak to discuss tax changes to help middle-class families. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds Action To Improve Georgia National Forest WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today applauded the inclusion of legislation he introduced, the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest Land Adjustment Act, in the Federal Land Management Act of 2017, which passed the Agriculture Committee unanimously. Senator Perdue’s bill would improve management of the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest by creating a more cohesive park boundary and also improve opportunities for recreation. “This is an important step toward making the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest more manageable for park rangers,” said Senator Perdue. “Updated park boundaries will improve opportunities for hunting, fishing, and hiking in northeast Georgia while making better use of taxpayer money. This legislation is a win-win, and I look forward to seeing it passed by the full Senate.” The Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest Land Adjustment Act, is co-sponsored by Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA). Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Doug Collins (R-GA-9) on March 8, 2017. View the bill text here. Background: Currently, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) owns a substantial number of small, isolated tracts of land that are disconnected from the core lands of the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest. Encroachment from growth and development has caused these tracts to lose their principle value for National Forest purposes, as they are outliers from the core forest block. This legislation outlines a solution, authorizing the sale of 30 isolated parcels identified as desired disposal by the USFS. All proceeds from land sales will go directly to USFS and may only be used to buy inholding properties of high-value for conservation, recreation, and management from sellers within the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest boundary. Additionally, selling isolated parcels puts this land back on county tax rolls and revenue generated can be used to buy inholdings from willing sellers. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On JSTARS Readiness In Final Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the inclusion of his provisions to protect JSTARS readiness in the final version of the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018: “When we send our troops into battle, we must have absolute confidence they have the equipment they need to safely carry out their mission. The JSTARS fleet is our eye in the sky and our nation’s premier Battle Management, Command and Control asset used in theater today. Our combatant commanders demand this unique capability and our troops on the ground rely on it as they carry out an array of missions. The sharp turn away from the current recap plan conflicts with everything I’ve heard from the Air Force and combatant commanders. If the Air Force changes their mind, they’ll need to answer some serious questions about how to meet this need and any gaps we’ll see. I thank my Armed Services colleagues for working with me on this and understanding the importance of this fleet.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Senator David Perdue: Warner Robins General Uniquely Qualified To Be Assistant Secretary of Defense WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after meeting with Major General Robert McMahon, of Warner Robins, GA, before his confirmation hearing to serve as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness: To download a high-resolution photo, click here or on the image below. Click here to download b-roll. “I have known Bob for a number of years, and he has distinguished himself as a servant leader and pillar of support for the local base and community,” said Senator Perdue. “General McMahon brings to the table 39 years of proven leadership while in uniform, in business, and in nonprofit service to his community, which happens to be my home town of Warner Robins. General McMahon’s experience in both the public and private sectors make him uniquely qualified to join the stellar team at the Department of Defense that Secretary Mattis and President Trump are assembling. I full heartedly support General McMahon for this position. Given his passion for the military, his service to his country and his patriotism, I know that if confirmed, General McMahon will serve the Department and the nation well.” Read Senator Perdue’s full statement for the record here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Senator David Perdue Refutes Misinformation On Tax “No excuse for this nonsense. I think it's our role, on both sides, to call out these untruths.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor to set the record straight on Democrat’s false assumptions on tax, which have been proven wrong. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights Citing Retracted Studies: “On Monday, The Tax Policy Center released a study saying that the House plan to change the tax code would raise taxes on 25% of American families. The study didn’t even survive a full day. It was retracted later that afternoon. It’s not even publicly available online to review. But do you know what is still public? The Democrat statements that came out of that report, false statements highlighting this study as reality.” Perpetuating Falsehoods: “The website Vox posted a story about the Tax Policy Center study titled, ‘The Numbers Are In And The House Republican Tax Bill Raises Taxes On Nearly One-Third of Americans.’ Sure, they say they’ll update the story once new numbers are available. In the meantime, this headline and story are still in existence as if they were true. Why wouldn’t they take down the story? Why wouldn’t they change the headline?” Failing Fact Checks: “Multiple members of the Minority Party have said the tax framework supported by President Trump would raise taxes on families earning less than $86,000 per year. This talking point is so wrong that even The Washington Post came out and said so. They gave this claim four Pinocchios. That's the worst rating you can get on their fact check.” Putting On A Show: “The Minority Party is doing all it can to try and stop us from getting this done this year because it makes good politics somehow. That's the only explanation I see. It just doesn't make any sense. Why would someone oppose giving the middle class a tax break? Why would someone oppose making America competitive again? Why would someone oppose bringing billions of dollars of U.S. profits back into the United States so they can be reinvested in the economy and create jobs?” Ignoring National Interest: “If Democrats were acting in our national interest, we’d be hearing about the studies showing that, on average, Americans are projected to get a pay increase between $4,000-$9,000 under this plan. We’d be hearing about how families making less than $86,000 per year are actually getting a tax cut. Again, that’s a point even The Washington Post acknowledged. We’d be hearing about how lowering the corporate tax rate and ending the tax on repatriated earnings will make us more competitive with the rest of the world. We’d be hearing about the economic growth that could result from these changes.” Changing Their Tune: “There are members of the Minority Party who supported these changes to the tax code right up to the point President Trump took office. That’s no excuse for this nonsense. I think it's our role, on both sides, to call out these untruths. It's also our responsibility to stop this nonsense.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.08.2017	11.08.17 Senator David Perdue: We Have To Get Tax Done This Year “This is what Americans want.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Michelle Caruso-Cabrera on CNBC’s Power Lunch about the importance of changing our tax code this year to provide relief for American workers, grow the economy, and make U.S. businesses more competitive. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Acting With Urgency: “The great news is the House got this process started. They’ve done a great job getting us to this point. The Senate has been working in parallel for the last few months, and I think we’re in a good position to get this across the line. President Trump wants to get this passed in the House and Senate by Thanksgiving and on his desk by Christmas.” Americans Expect It: “This is what Americans want. You talked about 58 record days in the stock market, people are pricing tax relief in now in anticipation, along with the over 860 rules and regulations reversed this year. This economy wants to pop. Consumer confidence is at a 16-year high, so I think we’ve got a good chance of getting it done. We have to.” Making America Competitive: “The House got the corporate rate down to 20% and held that line. I love that. They’re getting rid of repatriation. There’s no border adjustment tax in there, and I really like the way they focused on the different examples in the middle-class to make sure everyone gets a tax cut.” Leveling The Playing Field: “There’s no way in the world that a couple with two children in Iowa should pay more than a couple with two children, same income, same deductions, in California. There’s no reason for that, and that’s what we’ve been doing for years. We’re going to clean that up, create a more level playing field both on the individual side, and on the corporate side as well.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.07.2017	11.07.17 Senator David Perdue: Historic Opportunity To Fix Tax Code Providing relief for American workers, growing our economy, & making us more competitive WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senate Republicans, Senior Trump Administration officials, and grassroots leaders for an event to highlight the importance of changing our tax code this year to provide relief for American workers, grow the economy, and make U.S. businesses more competitive. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: U.S. Senator David Perdue: “We have an opportunity to deliver results and fundamentally change this tax code for the first time since 1986. We know that Washington needs a sense of urgency. President Trump has called us to action. He is moving at a business pace, not a bureaucratic pace. He wants us to pass the House and Senate bill by Thanksgiving, and that he wants it on his desk by Christmas. This is totally possible in our opinion. The House has made a great effort to start this process. It’s a great starting point, providing relief for American workers, growing our economy, and making us more competitive with the rest of the world.” Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Treasury: “Nothing is more important to the President’s economic agenda than tax reform and tax cuts. I have appreciated the opportunity to work with members of the Senate and the House since the beginning of the year on this. We couldn’t be more excited about where we are. This is about making America competitive again.” Kellyanne Conway, Counselor to President Trump: “We’re also trying to help the job holders which represent the vast majority of American households. When my grandfather had a job, when your grandfather had a job, the job was enough to support the whole family. Now we have households that have two and three jobs. Some are not worried about losing a job or replacing a lost job, but they have no idea why the job is no longer enough. Why are they white-knuckled at the end of each month to pay their rent, their mortgage, the tuition, or the student loan voucher payment? We want to give them the much needed relief that they deserve.” Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform: “We look at the tax code and we start taking out stupid. China is at a 25% tax on businesses, we’re at 35%. Stupid. Let’s not be there. We have a lot of American earnings stuck overseas because our tax code doesn’t let it come back to the country without punitive taxes. Stupid. Let’s end that, and allow people to bring money here to create jobs and opportunities in factories here in the United States.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.07.2017	11.07.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s Asia Trip On CNN “President Trump has developed a consensus of support on North Korea and opening doors for a non-kinetic solution. We have to find a way to get through here.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, spoke with Alisyn Camerota on CNN’s New Day about the recent tragedy in Sutherland Springs, Texas, and President Trump’s trip to Asia aimed at strengthening partnerships with these countries to denuclearize North Korea. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Answers From Air Force: “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families in Texas, like they did in Nevada and earlier events. We want some answers. I agree with Senator McCain. We ought to find out what happened in the Air Force and why this information was not fed into the database. There are things we need to know and learn from.” Non-Kinetic Solutions: “First of all this is a President engaging with the rest of the world after eight years of disengagement. He has developed a consensus of support on North Korea and opening doors for a non-kinetic solution. We have to find a way to get through here.” Direct Talks With North Korea: “President Trump has intimated both publicly and privately that this would be in the cards. I'm convinced, though, that this is in the best interest of China and the United States to get together and find a common solution. I'm also excited that President Trump is intimating that he wants to talk to President Putin about this as well. Russia plays a major part in this.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.06.2017	11.06.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Confirmation Of President Trump’s Judicial Nominees “These judges will help shape the direction of the courts for years to come.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the United States Senate’s work to confirm President Trump’s judicial nominees: “The United States Senate has been stalled by historic obstruction from Senate Democrats. Despite this partisan gridlock, we confirmed Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court earlier this year, and have since confirmed 15 judicial nominees, including eight judges to the powerful United States Circuit Courts. These judges will help shape the direction of the courts for years to come. Unlike most things in Washington, we are moving quickly to get more judges in place. By comparison, in Obama’s first year in office, only three Circuit Court judges were confirmed. While we are making significant progress, there is still a lot more work to be done. President Trump has been in office for 10 months now and still doesn’t have his full team in place. Washington needs to pick up the pace and get all of President Trump’s nominees confirmed as quickly as possible.” Background: 16 judges confirmed this year, including Supreme Court Justice Gorsuch. 8 judges confirmed to the powerful United States Circuit Courts. 4 district judges confirmed. 3 judges confirmed to the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. There are 15 district and circuit court judges pending on the executive calendar. The oldest judicial nomination on the executive calendar is 113 days. There are 39 judges still pending in the Judiciary Committee. There are currently 145 federal judge vacancies that the Senate will confirm. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.03.2017	11.03.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Commanding General Of Fort Benning WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after meeting with Major General Eric Wesley, Commanding General of the U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence and Fort Benning: To download a high-resolution photo, click here or on the image below. “I very much appreciate General Wesley’s leadership and service to the women and men of Fort Benning, the U.S. Army, and our nation,” said Senator Perdue. “It was great to have the chance to catch up with General Wesley and discuss the base’s current mission set, including the U.S. Army’s first Security Force Assistance Brigade, the Army’s Maneuver Center of Excellence, and work on advanced maneuver robotics. I am proud that Georgia continues to be a leading contributor to our national defense. Fort Benning is not only a critical asset to Georgia, but to the U.S. Army. I couldn’t be more confident that the base, its soldiers, and their families are in great hands with General Wesley.” ###
11.02.2017	11.02.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Federal Reserve Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Banking Committee, comments on President Trump’s nomination of Jerome Powell to lead the Federal Reserve: “The next Fed Chair is walking into a very unique situation and one that I am very concerned about. This individual will not only be in charge of the complex process of unwinding a $4.5 trillion balance sheet, but also will have discretion to push back on a wide variety of job killing and onerous regulations on credit and capital formation put in place by Dodd-Frank and federal agencies. I want to hear more about Mr. Powell’s views and solutions on each of these issues during his confirmation hearing.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.02.2017	11.02.17 Senator David Perdue: Iran Is Third Largest Diversity Lottery Visa Recipient “The RAISE Act would eliminate the Diversity Visa Lottery and move us to a merit-based immigration system” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Laura Ingraham on Fox News Channel’s The Ingraham Angle about how the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, would create a merit-based immigration system and eliminate the outdated Diversity Visa Lottery. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Merit-Based System: “President Trump called this out last year and I give him high marks. This year he is backing our RAISE Act that Tom Cotton and I put forward. He talked about it today. We want to go to a merit-based immigration system.” Plagued With Fraud: “Let’s talk about this Diversity Visa Lottery. This is a big fraud. It is fraught with fraud itself. It has social security fraud. It has identity fraud.” National Security Issue: “Worse than that, 30% of the visas given out under this system go to countries that have been identified by ICE as harboring and promoting terrorism. In fact, the third largest recipient country for these visas is Iran. This is an insidious program. It needs to go away tonight.” Finding Common Ground: “What we want to do in a merit-based system is eliminate chain migration. This is based on the same conclusion that the Democrats came to under Bill Clinton. President Bush created a commission to look at immigration. They suggested a merit-based system and Bill Clinton supported it. This should be a bipartisan approach to this problem.” Proven To Work: “Most countries have already moved to protect their borders, their national security, and to provide for their economic growth and they do that within the immigration system. Canada and Australia did this decades ago. They went to a merit-based system where they bring the right kind of people in today relative to the economy and we don't. We have a family based chain migration system that has got to end.” Growing The Economy: “This is the biggest difference since 1990 and the Senator Ted Kennedy idea. If you look at our historical immigration, they came in, assimilated into the community, they learned English, they developed the skills, and they contributed to the economy. What we have going today is this politically correct idea that calls for an open border.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
11.01.2017	11.01.17 Senator David Perdue: RAISE Act Eliminates Outdated Diversity Visa Lottery WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on how the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, would eliminate the outdated Diversity Visa Lottery: “President Trump is right, the Diversity Visa Lottery Program is a problem and is plagued by fraud. Given these serious concerns, Senator Cotton and I have proposed eliminating this outdated program as part of the RAISE Act. While Senate Democrats originally created the Diversity Visa Lottery in 1990, many have supported legislation that would have eliminated it in the years since. I hope we can include this area of common ground as we work to fix our broken immigration system and strengthen our national security.” Background: The Immigration Act of 1990, established the current Diversity Visa Lottery Program which was spearheaded by Senator Chuck Schumer. The Diversity Lottery is plagued with fraud, advances no economic or humanitarian interest, and does not even promote diversity. The Diversity Lottery is an arbitrary way to distribute the privilege of U.S. citizenship based on nothing more than the luck of the draw. The RAISE Act would eliminate the 50,000 visas arbitrarily allocated to this lottery. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.27.2017	10.27.17 Senators Call For Next Step In Holding Iran Accountable Urge Ambassador Haley To Push For Military Site Inspections & Stronger Inspection Reporting Requirements WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) was joined by Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Barrasso (R-WY), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Cory Gardner (R-CO), James Inhofe (R-OK), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Luther Strange (R-AL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and John Kennedy (R-LA) in sending a letter to United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley requesting she call on the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to inspect Iranian military facilities and strengthen reporting and verification requirements of Iran’s compliance with the Iran Nuclear Deal. “When unveiling the JCPOA, President Obama promised that, ‘inspectors will also be able to access any suspicious location. Put simply, the organization responsible for the inspections, the IAEA, will have access where necessary, when necessary.’ He stressed that Iran’s nuclear program ‘faces strict limitations and is subject to the most intrusive inspection and verification program ever negotiated to monitor a nuclear program.’ In practice, it appears that this is not the case,” wrote the senators. Just this summer, Iranian officials stated Iran’s military sites are “off limits” and they “will never allow such visits.” In the letter, the senators ask Ambassador Haley to work with her colleagues at the United Nations to address reporting shortcomings and vague inspection boundaries. This includes the lack of distinction between military and non-military sites in the Iran Nuclear Deal, which contributed to President Trump’s decision to not recertify the agreement. This ambiguity has prevented the IAEA from conducting comprehensive inspections. As noted in an Institute for Science and International Security review of the most recent IAEA report on Iran, “this report provides so little information” inspectors are forced to rely on intelligence reports and other information to determine if sites they have not visited are being used for activities violating the Iran Deal. View the full text of the letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.25.2017	10.25.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate’s Action To Protect American Consumers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Banking Committee, comments on the Senate’s action to stop a government agency from implementing a final rule that discourages consumers and companies from settling their differences outside of the courtroom: “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, calls itself a consumer advocate but its actions often indicate the opposite. This rule is a perfect example. It makes no sense for this federal agency to issue a regulation that carves out an exemption for trial lawyers. Even the CFPB’s own study determined only 13% of lawsuits that go to court end up benefiting the consumer directly and those who did benefit only received on average a payment of $32.35. At the same time, in an average case, trial lawyers representing consumers collected more than $1 million. I am glad to see the Senate agrees it’s time to put consumers first and conduct some much-needed oversight of this rogue agency.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.24.2017	10.24.17 Senator David Perdue Shares Business Perspective On Tax At Heritage Foundation “The corporate tax rate and the lack of competitiveness is a penalty on the American worker.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Joshua Bolten, President and CEO of Business Roundtable, and Adam Michel of The Heritage Foundation about the benefits corporate tax changes will have on American workers and our economy. Click here to watch. Highlights: Growing The Economy: “The reason you want tax reform is to grow the economy. It’s how you can ultimately solve the debt crisis longer term. Secondly, we have the lowest workforce participation rate in the last 30 years, and after 8 years of our slowest economic growth in history, we need to jumpstart the economy. There are several ways you do that. One is to push back on regulations, then you need to adjust your tax structure so you are more competitive with the rest of the world.” Protecting American Workers: “The corporate tax rate and the lack of competitiveness is a penalty on the American worker…We have one of the best workforces in the world. I can speak to that because I’ve lived in Asia and Europe. Our workforce is very unique—it’s innovative, it’s self-starting, and just gets the job done—but we’ve got to take the burden off our workers. The tax burden is one of the things holding us back.” Return On Investment: “In my experience as a CEO, the tax on repatriated funds kept me from investing where I wanted to invest, and that was here in the United States, in equipment, training, and helping people change from one job to another. That’s a big need in the United States as we go from an industrial age to an information age. There’s been a great loss in corporate America over the last 30 years because of profits on the sidelines.” Leveling The Playing Field: “Of the two businesses I led here in the United States, one has an effective tax rate of 37% today and the other has a rate of 17%. That’s picking winners and losers, and it’s an amalgamation of 100 years of incentives. These aren’t loopholes. These are things that were voted on by Congress to incentivize businesses and individuals to invest in certain ways to get certain results.” Real World Urgency: “The sense of urgency in Washington is not the same sense of urgency I lived with for 40 years in the real world. You have to get things done as fast—or faster—than your competitors. I had to compete with a little company called Nike, and another little company called Walmart. In business, you don’t think about getting things done theoretically. It is something you just do, like breathing. This sense of urgency is missing in Washington.” Acting This Year: “If we don’t get tax done this year, we run the risk of disappointing the expectation that’s already built into the bond market and the stock market, and that is that something’s going to happen this year, so that it will have some impact on the second half of next year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.24.2017	10.24.17 Senator David Perdue: Washington Has Got To Wake Up “Four words not in Washington’s vocabulary: ‘We cannot afford it.’” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Budget Committee, comments on Washington’s recent disaster relief package: “Washington has got to wake up. Our national debt hit $20 trillion a few weeks ago and no one blinked an eye. As a country we’re losing the right to do the right thing. Washington’s inability to get its financial house in order is causing us to lose the ability to pay for all the things we need to do. Four words not in Washington’s vocabulary: ‘We cannot afford it.’ Unless we solve our debt crisis, we won’t be able to deal with emergency situations, invest in our infrastructure, or fund any of our national priorities. This can be fixed but Washington must develop the political will to fix this budget process and deal with the exploding debt.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.23.2017	10.23.17 Senator David Perdue Talks RAISE Act With Fox News' Steve Hilton WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Steve Hilton on Fox News Channel’s The Next Revolution With Steve Hilton about the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act and why it should be included in any solution to fix our country’s immigration problems. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Getting Back On Track: “Our immigration system has gotten off track in the last 50 years. We’ve looked at best practices around the world to see what can we do to address the issue. We found Australia and Canada that both have a system that's pro-worker, it's pro-growth and proven to work.” Needs Of Our Economy: “This is based on a democratic idea in the early 90s under former Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush. The bipartisan commission headed up by Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, a Democrat, came to the conclusion we need to move in the direction of a point system and bring in workers who are qualified for the needs of our economy.” Bipartisan Solution: “I believe we'll get bipartisan support on this bill because it's so common sense. It is pro-job, pro-worker and pro-growth. It's proven to work in Canada and Australia. This is not an experiment. We know this will work.” Leveling The Playing Field: “What we have now is a competition for labor around the world and for technical workers. This gives us a little more level playing field.” Measured Approach: “A lot of people who immigrate here get trapped because they're not qualified for the jobs that are available. About half of all immigrant households in America are in our welfare system. Nobody wants that for them. This is a way to try to protect both them, and the other workers that are coming in.” Growing The Economy: “One of the ways you defend yourself is by having the best and the brightest talent in the world. That helped create this economic miracle over the last 70 years. We have the most qualified people in the world. Look at our nuclear capability today. It came from immigrants. Why wouldn't we want to welcome those people?” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Senator David Perdue: We’re One Step Closer To Getting Tax Done This Year WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate moved one step closer to fixing our tax code this year: “Let's be very clear. This budget is a sham and the entire budget process is a fraud being perpetrated on the American people. Only four times in the past 43 years has the budget process fully worked to fund the government on time. The only reason we're even doing the budget like this is to get tax done this year. “In the middle of the dog-and-pony show tonight there was a glimmer of hope. Senator Whitehouse and I teamed up to author a bipartisan amendment to acknowledge our frustration with the budget process and the need to fix it. The U.S. Senate agreed unanimously that the budget process is broken. Getting the entire U.S. Senate, both Republicans and Democrats, to acknowledge the futility of the current budget process and the political side shows that come with it, is a step in the right direction. We need to fix this. “It is all related. In order for the federal government to have the ability to act on our national priorities, we must solve the debt crisis. To solve the debt crisis, we have to fix our budget process. Job one is getting the economy going, and the economy will move if we get this tax deal done. It's as simple as that.” The U.S. Senate unanimously agreed by a voice vote to Senator Perdue's bipartisan amendment with Senator Whitehouse that acknowledges Congress’ broken budget process (Perdue 1167). ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Senators Pledge Support For Turning Senate On Full Time Call for Senate changes to overcome partisan obstruction WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) was joined by Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and James Lankford (R-OK) in sending a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell pledging their full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, for the remainder of the year to combat partisan obstruction and get results for the American people. “The 115th Congress is being disrupted by sustained, partisan obstruction. We believe our conference must be willing to change how the Senate operates both by tradition and by rule,” said the senators in the letter. “We appreciate your acknowledging our concerns and applaud your plan to work nights and weekends when necessary to overcome this gridlock. You have our full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, to advance the president’s agenda, including a meaningful health care solution, bold changes to our tax code, and funding the government by year’s end.” “You have our pledge to be available for voting day and night and we offer our time to preside over the Senate when necessary to keep us on track,” concluded the senators. View the full text of the letter here and below. Dear Leader McConnell: The 115th Congress is being disrupted by sustained, partisan obstruction. We believe our conference must be willing to change how the Senate operates both by tradition and by rule. We appreciate your acknowledging our concerns and applaud your plan to work nights and weekends when necessary to overcome this gridlock. You have our full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, to advance the president’s agenda, including a meaningful health care solution, bold changes to our tax code, and funding the government by year’s end. As you know, one glaring example of this unprecedented obstruction is the minority party’s perversion of Senate rules to undercut the confirmation process of the administration’s nominees and judicial appointments. When new presidents are elected, they have always been given an opportunity to put their team in place in short order. Historically, this is not just a common courtesy, it is an expectation of Americans to have a seamless transition of power resulting in a functioning federal government. It is abundantly clear that the tactics employed by the minority are designed to imperil the new administration and its agenda. Overcoming this obstruction will require a real commitment on our part. An aggressive work calendar, as you have proposed, which should include nights and weekends, will enable administration and judicial nominees to be confirmed more quickly. You have our pledge to be available for voting day and night and we offer our time to preside over the Senate when necessary to keep us on track. Given the unprecedented obstruction by our colleagues across the aisle, we hope you will also take a renewed look at the rules governing executive branch nominations. Our conference should always remember that we are fighting for hardworking Americans. In their daily lives, when there is work to be done – whether on assembly lines, in the fields of family farms, fishing in our bountiful waters, or standing in harm’s way – everyday Americans do what it takes to get the job done. We owe them the same unrelenting effort in the job they gave us to do. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Senators Perdue, Whitehouse Force Senate To Acknowledge Broken Budget Process Bipartisan amendment highlights need for new budget process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), both members of the Senate Budget Committee, made the following statement on their bipartisan amendment to the FY2018 budget: “Only four times in the past 43 years has this budget process actually funded the federal government. Finding common ground to develop a real budget should be a bipartisan effort, and that’s why we’re fighting to fix it.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.18.2017	10.18.17 Senator David Perdue Takes Action To Protect Americans’ Credit History Perdue’s bill safeguards personal information & simplifies credit freezing process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today took action to protect Americans’ credit by simplifying the credit freezing process through the creation of a national credit freeze standard and limiting the exposure of consumers’ social security numbers. Senator Perdue’s bill, the Promoting Responsible Oversight of Transactions and Examinations of Credit Technology (PROTECT) Act of 2017, amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to allow national security freezes for the files and credit records of protected consumers, and creates a nationwide framework for credit freezes. Additionally, the bill prohibits the largest credit reporting agencies under 603(p) from using Social Security Numbers as a method of identification by 2020. “In today’s economy, technology and banking are intertwined,” said Senator Perdue. “It’s critical the credit bureaus and federal agencies that collect sensitive consumer data store this information properly. If not, the consequence could be severe as we’ve just seen. Millions of Americans were recently impacted by a massive cybersecurity breach at one of our nation’s largest credit bureaus. We cannot afford for something like this to happen again. These simple steps will protect Americans’ credit history and they should’ve been in place long ago.” “There are major shortcomings in our nation’s cybersecurity laws and Congress must act,” said Congressman McHenry. “The bills Senator Perdue and I have introduced take an important first step in providing meaningful reforms to help protect American’s personal information. It protects Americans by creating a national credit freeze that actually works and prohibits the largest credit reporting agencies from continuing to rely upon the most sensitive of Americans’ personal information: our Social Security Numbers.” Senator Perdue’s bill is companion legislation to Congressman Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10)’s PROTECT Act introduced in the House of Representatives on October 12, 2017. View the bill text here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.18.2017	10.18.17 Senator David Perdue Works To Improve Airplane Safety For Passengers And Pilots “We need common-sense policies like this to ensure the United States continues to be a leader in aviation.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) took action today to improve airline safety by streamlining requirements in the Pilot Records Improvement Act of 1996 (PRIA). PRIA instructs every airline to obtain the motor vehicle driving record of pilot applicants from the National Driver Register (NDR) before allowing that individual to begin their service as a pilot. The Pilot Records Improvement Enhancement Act of 2017 would simplify the hiring process for both pilots and air carriers by allowing carriers secure and appropriate access to NDR records through the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. “Our country’s aviation infrastructure is top-tier,” said Senator Perdue. “By taking the burden off of state officials to provide pilots’ driving records to airlines, we are streamlining the government requirements for the pilot hiring process. We need common-sense policies like this to ensure the United States continues to be a leader in aviation. ” “As a pilot, I understand how important it is that airlines check a pilot’s driving record before he or she is responsible for the lives of others aboard an aircraft,” said Senator Duckworth. “Air carriers and pilots often struggle to access the necessary driving records of a pilot applicant, which not only causes unnecessary delays in the hiring process, but can also threaten public safety. I’m proud to work with Senator Perdue to ensure airlines maintain secure and appropriate access to NDR records and I’ll continue working to protect the safety of pilots, crew members and passengers across the country.” The National Driver Register, which is governed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in the Department of Transportation, maintains information about drivers who have had their motor vehicle operator’s license suspended or revoked, or have been convicted of serious driving violations. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.18.2017	10.18.17 Senator David Perdue Talks Tax On CNBC “The only reason we're doing the budget like this, 18 days after the beginning of our fiscal year, is to get tax done this year.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Joe Kernen on CNBC’s Squawk Box about why the budget process is a sham and should be viewed as merely a way to fix our tax code this year. Click here to watch or click on the image below. A Total Sham: “Let's be very clear. This budget is a sham. It's a fraud that’s been perpetrated for the last 43 years since the Budget Act of 1974. The only reason we're doing the budget like this, 18 days after the beginning of our fiscal year, is to get tax done this year.” Budget Is Not A Law: “This is a resolution. It has nothing to do with how we'll fund the government. Congress already passed a short-term spending deal that got us past the end of the fiscal year. Sometime between now and December 8th, six people will get in a room and decide how to spend over $1 trillion, and the rest of us will get an up or down vote on that.” Getting To Tax: “I’m very confident we’ll get this budget done because the only reason we’re doing it this way is to get to the tax deal, which all of us are anxious to pass.” Making America More Competitive: “Consumer confidence is at a 16-year high and over 800 regulations have already been reversed this year. Now we have the anticipation of passing this tax deal that will actually help our corporations and our workers become competitive with the rest of the world again.” Funding The Military: “My argument is if you want to fund the military long-term, you better solve the debt crisis. To solve the debt crisis, we have to get after our budget process. If you really want to solve our funding issues, you better get the economy going, and the economy will move if we get this tax deal done. It's just as simple as that.” Helping American Workers: “We’ve got to lower the corporate tax rate, which is an onerous tax on American workers. It puts our workers at a disadvantage with the rest of the world. In 1986, the last time Congress took any measured change in the tax law, we had one of the lowest corporate tax rates in the world. Today we have the highest in the OECD. We are also one of the last countries to have a repatriation tax. There are also some $2 trillion of U.S. profits stuck overseas. Fixing those things alone will stimulate this economy.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.17.2017	10.17.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Rollback Of Obama-Era Agriculture Rules “President Trump’s rollback of these unnecessary rules is a win for Georgia’s agriculture industry.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, comments on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s rollback of two Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) rules: “President Trump’s rollback of these unnecessary rules is a win for Georgia’s agriculture industry. This action also sends a clear signal that President Trump and Secretary Perdue are serious about undoing Obama-era regulations that place an undue burden on rural America. I applaud the Trump Administration for taking the concerns of rural America seriously by getting big government out of their way. The last thing that Georgia’s agriculture industry needs is more bureaucracy.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.13.2017	10.13.17 Senator David Perdue: Iran Deal Is Not In Our National Security Interests “Decertification Gives The U.S. Significant Leverage.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s decision to decertify the Iran Nuclear Deal and the Trump Administration's strategy to counter Iranian influence in the region: “President Trump is correct to decertify President Obama's dangerous Iran Nuclear Deal because it is not in our national security interests. In no circumstance can we allow Iran to develop a nuclear weapon and President Obama’s deal laid out a road map for Iran to do just that. I applaud President Trump's action to decertify. Decertification gives the U.S. significant leverage at the negotiating table to get the international community on board to tackle non-nuclear issues‎ and to address shortcomings in the deal, like sunset clauses and inspection loopholes. To be clear, this is part of a long-term regional strategy. This includes countering Iranian influence in Yemen, Iraq, and Syria, where Iranian proxies have been gaining control and influence in the region. President Trump is doing what the last administration refused to do: reengaging with the rest of the world, while asserting American security interests.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.12.2017	10.12.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds President Trump’s Move To Increase Access To Insurance WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s action today to provide Americans’ relief from Obamacare: “President Trump has proven once again he is willing to take bold action, even when Congress won’t. This action today will bring relief to the millions of Americans unable to obtain affordable health insurance because of Obamacare. This law is collapsing under its own weight and hurting millions of Americans. It needs to be fully repealed. In the meantime, I applaud the President’s courage to take action and support this move emphatically.” ###
10.11.2017	10.11.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Tax Speech WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s tax speech in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: “President Trump did a great job making the case for eliminating our regressive repatriation tax. This is a tax on American workers. Today, there’s almost $3 trillion in profits stuck overseas because of our archaic tax system. Companies want to bring these profits back home to the United States. We’ve got the best workers in the world. We’ve got the rule of law, innovation, and capital formation. These are all of the ingredients that cause growth." ###
10.10.2017	10.10.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds Repeal Of Regressive Energy Tax WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Trump Administration’s notice to repeal an Obama-era energy tax: "President Trump has taken on the boldest regulatory rollback since Reagan, and today’s move to repeal President Obama's regressive energy tax is another major step in the right direction. It’s refreshing that we finally have a President who is committed to growing the economy, championing American workers, and prioritizing our energy independence instead of a political agenda.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.10.2017	10.10.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Congratulate Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Recipients Three Augusta University cybersecurity students selected to participate WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) congratulated three Augusta University students selected as recipients of the Department of Defense’s Information Assurance Scholarship Program. Undergraduate students Jeremy Garcia and Stephanie Morris and graduate student Matthew Atkinson earned the scholarship, which is awarded to students specializing in information assurance, information technology and cybersecurity. In exchange for receiving a full-ride scholarship, students agree to work for the Department of Defense in support the nation’s cyber mission. “I’m very proud to see these Augusta University students take initiative to lead the way in our next generation of cyber scholars,” said Senator Isakson. “Our national security depends on a workforce that is prepared and eager to engage in this expanding domain of warfare. This scholarship will help provide more students with opportunities to help prevent and counter cyber threats.” “Our nation must strengthen its defense capabilities to combat the constant asymmetric threats we face on a daily basis,” said Senator Perdue. “When it comes to cybersecurity, I'm encouraged to see students in Georgia leading the way. Congratulations to Jeremy, Stephanie, and Matthew. Our country depends on students like you to help protect us from domestic and global cyber threats.” Senators Isakson and Perdue worked with a bipartisan group of Republicans and Democrats to expand the cyber scholarship program to include National Centers of Academic Excellence, which include the following Georgia universities: Armstrong State University, Augusta University, Columbus State University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Kennesaw State University, Middle Georgia State University and the University of North Georgia. Augusta University was the only Center of Academic Excellence in Georgia to receive scholarship students this year. Georgia plays a large role in developing our nation’s cyber capabilities. Fort Gordon in Augusta, Georgia, is home to the United States Army Cyber Center of Excellence, the National Security Agency (NSA) Georgia Army Command, and the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, a state-owned facility designed to promote modernization in cybersecurity technology for both private and public industries. Scholarships are awarded on an annual basis, and re-applications in 2018, pending funding, to complete a degree are encouraged. More information on the program through Augusta University is available here. ###
10.09.2017	10.09.17 Senator David Perdue: President Trump’s Immigration Priorities Are Spot On WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the immigration priorities outlined by President Trump: "The immigration priorities President Trump has outlined are spot on. For years, we've needed to beef up border security, clear out the court backlogs, and crack down on cities blatantly ignoring current law. We have also been focused on the RAISE Act, which ends chain-migration and moves us to a merit-based system that meets the needs of our economy. Overall, the President has outlined a good list of priorities to fix our immigration system, which hasn't been done in over 30 years." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.05.2017	10.05.17 Senator David Perdue: This So Called-Budget Should Be Taken With A Grain Of Salt WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on the budget resolution passed by the Committee today: “This so called-budget should be taken with a grain of salt. It’s not being used as a budgetary tool to control spending because these budgets are resolutions, not laws. I’ve been saying this for two years: the entire budget process is broken. There is no better example of this problem than what we’re doing now. The only reason we are doing the budget this way is to get a technical structure in place so we can get tax done this year. I’m not willing to jeopardize our chances to get tax done, otherwise, I wouldn’t be going along with this sham.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.04.2017	10.04.17 Senator David Perdue Introduces Middle Georgia Federal Judge Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced President Trump’s nominee to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, Tilman Eugene “Tripp” Self III, in his confirmation hearing before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. Click here or on the image below to watch. Click here to download photos. Transcript: “It’s my high honor today to introduce an outstanding Georgian who has been nominated by the President to be a U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia – Judge Tripp Self. He and his wife, Amy, are here with their family. This is a stellar individual of our community. He resides in my hometown actually. After graduating with highest honors from The Citadel in 1990, Tripp received his commission as a Field Artillery Officer in the United States Army and subsequently served in Korea before returning to the United States. Upon leaving the Army in 1994, he entered the University of Georgia School of Law where he served as Vice President of the Student Bar Association and graduated with honors in 1997. I promised him I would say ‘Go Dawgs.’ After law school, Judge Self went into private practice until he was elected to a seat on the Superior Court for the Macon Judicial Circuit in 2006. Judge Self twice won reelection to his Superior Court seat and became the third successive generation of his family to serve on the bench in Bibb County, Georgia. During his time as a Superior Court Judge, he was also integral in helping to set up the Macon Judicial Circuit Veteran’s Treatment Court to address the needs of veterans in the judicial system who suffer from substance abuse and mental health problems. He has served on the Georgia Court of Appeals since November of last year. Tripp and his family have remained active in the Macon community, and he has served in leadership roles in numerous organizations including the State Bar of Georgia and Council of Superior Court Judges over the course of his career. Again, I’m extremely honored to introduce Judge Self at his confirmation hearing and commend his nomination to this Committee with my full support.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.29.2017	09.29.17 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Discusses Tax Priorities With Hugh Hewitt WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined The Hugh Hewitt Show to discuss President Trump’s efforts to overhaul the tax code to help middle-class families and make America more competitive. Click here to listen to the interview. Highlights: Compete Globally: “President Trump is trying to focus on competitiveness, and that’s what we’ve taken for granted for all these years. We’ve got to get the corporate rate down to 15 to 20% because the rest of the world averages 22%. We’ve got to become competitive with the rest of the world.” Lower Rates: “I’m a business guy, so I’m looking at corporate tax reduction and particularly at small businesses. More than two-thirds of people in America believe that small businesses should have a lower tax rate.” Bring Profits Home: “We need to get rid of the repatriation tax. This is where U.S. companies and individuals have profits overseas and they get double taxed. That’s a tax on American workers. What we’ve got to do is get rid of it.” No Excuses: “As an outside guy, I can tell you that all this financial modeling in Washington – they call it ‘scoring’ – has nothing to do with the reality.” Produce Results: “Some of us in the Senate are pushing leadership to turn the Senate on 24-hours a day, let’s stay here over the weekend because we’ve still got nominations too. The Republicans have been given a probation period to get something done this year and next year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.29.2017	09.29.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Georgia National Blue Ribbon Schools Nine Georgia recipients honored for high-learning standards or notable improvements WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today honored nine Georgia schools, ranging from elementary to high school, that received a National Blue Ribbon School designation by the U.S. Department of Education. The recognition is based on a school’s overall academic performance or progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. The following Georgia schools received the designation: Cumming – Big Creek Elementary School Cumming – Brookwood Elementary School Hapeville – St. John the Evangelist Catholic School Marietta – Dickerson Middle School Marietta – Dodgen Middle School Peachtree City – Kedron Elementary School Roswell – Atlanta Academy Savannah – Savannah Christian Preparatory Lower School Suwanee – Riverwatch Middle School “Congratulations to these outstanding schools that are going above and beyond for Georgia students,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate committee that oversees education. “I encourage them to keep up the good work as they serve as guideposts for exceptional achievement.” “Congratulations to these schools’ principals, teachers, students, and parents on this high honor,” said Senator Perdue. “As the son of two school teachers, I know how much hard work goes into earning distinctions like this. Our entire state is very proud of these schools for going the extra mile to help Georgia students succeed.” ###
09.29.2017	09.29.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Valdosta State University President WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) met with Valdosta State University President, Dr. Richard Carvajal. To download a photo, click here or on the image below. “Valdosta State University is providing students with the tools they need to excel in their careers,” said Senator Perdue. “Through research, service projects, and hands-on learning, Valdosta State is actively working to solve rural health care challenges, stimulate economic development, and support small businesses. Dr. Carvajal’s commitment to his students’ success is inspiring, and I’m proud of the impact Valdosta State is having on the community.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.29.2017	09.29.17 Senator David Perdue Meets Georgia Principal Of The Year WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) met with 2018 Georgia Principal of the Year, Dr. Tommy Welch of Meadowcreek High School in Norcross, Georgia. Dr. Welch is one of three finalists for 2018 National Principal of the Year. To download photos, click here or on the image below. “Both of my parents were school teachers and education is something very dear to me,” said Senator Perdue. “Under Dr. Welch’s leadership, Meadowcreek High School’s graduation rates have skyrocketed and SAT scores are up over 40 percent. Most importantly, students are receiving the skills they need to succeed in the future through on-campus internships with local business partners, college and career academies, and more STEM courses. I’m extremely impressed by the great work Dr. Welch is doing for Meadowcreek High School and wish him all the best as he competes for National Principal of the Year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.28.2017	09.28.17 Senators Perdue, McCaskill Team Up To Fix Financial Regulation Legislation eases burdensome ‘Dodd-Frank’ regulations on regional banks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) are working together to provide regional banks with regulatory relief from a burdensome Dodd-Frank financial regulation that restricts their ability to lend to consumers and businesses in their communities. “Regional banks offer a lifeline to small businesses and entrepreneurs looking to create jobs,” said Senator Perdue. “Dodd-Frank overregulated these banks by placing them into the same category as huge banks with a global reach. This sent these banks’ compliance costs through the roof and limited their ability to do what they do best—support their communities. This legislation would actually test banks for systemic risk rather than forcing banks to comply with an arbitrary figure.” “When even some of the architects of ‘Dodd-Frank’ agree the law is unnecessarily burdensome on regional banks, you know we’ve got a problem on our hands,” said Senator McCaskill. “This is a commonsense fix that’ll untie the hands of our small regional banks and return to them the flexibility to lend to Missouri customers who want to buy a house, or start a business. I’m glad to join Congressman Luetkemeyer’s efforts to help get this bill across the finish line in the Senate.” The senators’ bill, the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act, gives the Federal Reserve the flexibility to exempt banks not designated as Globally Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) from reporting requirements and merger and acquisition limitations imposed by the Dodd-Frank law on institutions with more than $50 billion in assets. Currently, any financial institution with $50 billion in assets face stronger capital requirements and other regulatory burdens. The senators’ legislation would test larger financial institutions in a five-factor test: 1) size, 2) interconnectedness, 3) substitutability, 4) global cross-jurisdictional activity, 5) complexity. View the bill text here. ###
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Senator David Perdue: “We Need A Sense Of Urgency Like Never Before” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor about President Trump’s tax framework and why we must change the tax code this year. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Delivering For American Workers: “I've lived around the world. I've run businesses. I started my career working on an hourly wage in construction. I understand that America, and I can say this with authority, has some of the best workers anywhere in the world and in the history of the world. On the back of that, we have innovation, capital formation, and the rule of law. That's what has created this economic miracle over the last 70 years, but we’ve taken it for granted.” Leveling The Playing Field: “Today we absolutely have the highest corporate tax rate in the world. We're one of the last major OECD countries to actually still have a tax on repatriated earnings.” Protecting American Jobs: “If our corporate rate today was just 20 percent, over 4,700 companies that have been purchased over the last 12 years would still be in the United States. I think that is tantamount to a marching order for us here in the Senate to make this change.” Can’t Wait Any Longer: “Nearly every CEO surveyed by the Business Roundtable said that delays on tax would damage our economy.” No Washington Excuses: “We can't get bogged down in the scoring and financial modeling that is only done this way in Washington. People back home don't run their small businesses this way. They don't run big businesses this way, and they sure don't run their personal finances this way.” Only Score That Matters: “We can't get wrapped up in the bad numbers and bad timing coming from the Congressional Budget Office. The only score that matters to me is GDP growth and the jobs it creates.” Time To Act Now: “The reason we want this tax code changed is to put people back to work and change lives here in America. The long-term benefit of this gives us more flexibility and more capital with which to solve this debt crisis. Growing the economy alone will not fix this debt crisis and we will not fix the debt crisis unless and until we fix this tax code. We need to have a sense of urgency like never before in order get this done this year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
10.11.2017	10.11.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Tax Speech WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s tax speech in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: “President Trump did a great job making the case for eliminating our regressive repatriation tax. This is a tax on American workers. Today, there’s almost $3 trillion in profits stuck overseas because of our archaic tax system. Companies want to bring these profits back home to the United States. We’ve got the best workers in the world. We’ve got the rule of law, innovation, and capital formation. These are all of the ingredients that cause growth." ###
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Historic Opportunity To Fix Tax Structure WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the tax reform framework released today by the two Congressional tax writing committees: “This is a historic opportunity to defend American workers against unfair competition. Other countries have already lowered their corporate tax rate and eliminated their repatriation taxes. Our current tax system penalizes American workers and we have to change that now. It’s time to simplify the archaic, 100-year-old individual tax structure and put the United States on a level playing field with the rest of the world. There must be a sense of urgency to get this done before Christmas.” Background: Earlier today Senator Perdue discussed key components of tax reform on Bloomberg TV. Watch here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s Tax Plan On Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with David Westin on Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak about President Trump’s efforts to overhaul the tax code to help middle-class families and make America more competitive. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Working Together: “The Senate Finance Committee has been working with President Trump and White House staff for nine months. We’ve been kept very informed on this. I am very excited about this. President Trump is moving this to his top priority.” Putting Americans Back To Work: “Let’s put it in perspective, why do we want to grow the economy so badly? We want to put people back to work, improve the standard of living for our middle-class, get more people involved in this economic miracle in America.” Lowering Rates: “If we get the corporate tax rate to 20 percent, do away with the deductions that keep us from having a level playing field, get rid of the repatriation tax, and simplify our individual tax code, President Trump knows instinctively this will grow the economy.” Bringing Profits Back: “I have lived this. I ran a Fortune 500 company that had un-repatriated profits overseas. That’s the big issue. I would bring those profits back and invest here in America. We’ve got the best workers in the world. We have the rule of law, innovation, and capital formation. Those are all the ingredients that cause growth.” Impacting The Economy: “Right now consumer confidence is at a 16 year high and that’s being reflected in demand which has been fairly strong in the third quarter. The reason we have to get tax done this year is so we can have some impact on holiday season consumption next year.” Leveling The Playing Field: “In 1986, when we lowered our corporate tax rate, we had the third lowest corporate tax rate in the world. Today, we are absolutely the highest. When you look at the rest of the world, they caught up.” Investing In The Economy: “In the first few years, there is no question this is an investment we’re making by lowering this corporate tax rate. But, look at what’s happened in the rest of the world and look at what happened here back in the 80s when we did it before. The Reagan tax cuts, in the early 80s, set the tone for the economic miracle a decade later. What we have now is the same opportunity.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.26.2017	09.26.17 Senator David Perdue: What Happened Today In Washington Was A Failure “Georgians and Americans are fed up, and they should be.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate’s effort to repeal and replace Obamacare: “What happened today in Washington was a failure. Let’s be clear, Obamacare was perpetrated on the American people by a Democratic supermajority and is collapsing under its own weight. Premiums have skyrocketed and middle-class American families cannot afford health insurance or have been priced out of the individual market. Georgians and Americans are fed up, and they should be. There is a complete lack of Congressional leadership and no accountability to get results. From the get go, three Republican Senate Chairmen failed to support our efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare as we have all promised to do. Today, political interests have again outweighed our national interest. The current health care system is failing and we have to change direction to help those hurting under Obamacare, which is still the law of the land.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.26.2017	09.26.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Tax Priorities On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria about President Trump’s efforts to overhaul the tax code to help middle-class families and make America more competitive. Click here to watch or on the image below. Acting on Tax: “The first thing is to get this tax bill that the President wants passed. The reason we need this tax package is to get the economy growing again and to put people back to work.” Driving A Solution: “Right now I'm moving on and trying to drive to a solution on tax. I'm really optimistic that we will get to a tax bill because this economy wants to turn. Consumer optimism is at a 16-year high right now. If we move on this tax fix, I believe we’ll see a nice rebound next year.” Lowering Rates: “We have to get the corporate tax rate as low as we can. President Trump wants 15 percent and so do I.” Investing Back Home: “We can clean up corporate welfare as we work on deductions, but the real thing is we’ve got to eliminate is the repatriation tax. There is between $2 and $3 trillion stuck overseas in U.S. profits. That money can come back into the country as a capital investment and create jobs.” Solving Fiscal Problems: “Job one is get the economy going, then start working on these redundant agencies. I believe if we get tax done this year, the economy starts to work, then we can start saving social security, whose trust fund goes to zero in 17 years, and Medicare.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.22.2017	09.22.17 Senator David Perdue Joins Congressional HBCU Caucus WASHINGTON, D.C. – During National Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Week, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) announced his membership in the Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus. Click here or on the image below to download a photo. Senator Perdue and Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell, President of Spelman College “Georgia is home to 10 fantastic HBCUs that play an important role in educating America’s next leaders,” said Senator Perdue. “I’m excited to join the Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus and look forward to working with my colleagues to highlight HBCUs and tackle the challenges they face.” Senator Perdue has consistently worked to promote the interests of Georgia’s HBCUs in the U.S. Senate. Senator Perdue met with Georgia’s HBCU leadership. Senator Perdue applauded President Trump’s support for our country’s HBCUs. Senator Perdue secured funds to support minority women in STEM at HBCUs in this year’s defense bill. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.22.2017	09.22.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Army Secretary Nominee, Dr. Mark Esper WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after meeting with Dr. Mark Esper, President Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Army: To download a high-resolution photo, click here or on the image below. “Dr. Mark Esper’s business experience paired with his military service makes him a great choice to fill this critical post within the Department of Defense,” said Senator Perdue. “Serving as the top civilian in the U.S. Army, Dr. Esper will oversee the over one million Army active duty, reserve and national guard soldiers serving our country, a position of great importance to Georgia and its military bases. Dr. Esper and I discussed the urgent need to focus on the Army’s readiness and the need to recap the major platforms in the Army to meet the ever changing global threats. I look forward to hearing more on how he plans to address these and other challenges facing the Army today during his confirmation hearing before the Armed Services Committee.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.22.2017	09.22.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Expanded Sanctions Against North Korea WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s bold action to impose additional sanctions against North Korea: “President Trump was very clear to world leaders at the United Nations that he would do whatever necessary to reign in the deranged regime of Kim Jong-un. It didn’t take long for President Trump to follow through and take strong action to hold North Korea accountable for its dangerous behavior. Today, a loud message has been sent to financial institutions around the world: choose between doing business with the U.S., or supporting a rogue regime.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.21.2017	09.21.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Immigration & Health Care With Laura Ingraham WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined The Laura Ingraham Show to discuss President Trump’s address at the United Nations General Assembly meeting, health care, and why the RAISE Act should be included in any Congressional solution to fix our country’s immigration problems. Click here to listen to the interview. Leading Again: “President Trump is reengaging with the rest of the world. He’s doing two things: One, he's telling our allies that we're going to be there for them. But, more importantly, he's telling other people – who are doing nefarious things – what’s important to America.” Leveling The Playing Field: “I’ve worked in Asia and Europe. I’ve dealt with these archaic trade rules all of my career. Job one right now is getting our economy going again, and getting on a level playing field with the rest of the world is one of the best ways to do it.” Fixing Health Care: “At this point, given the terrible nature of the structure of Obamacare and given that we failed several weeks ago in repealing Obamacare, it's very difficult to get a perfect solution. I'm afraid that this bill is the only thing standing between us and a single payer system, and that's a real concern.” Securing America: “The wall has got to be there. We’re going to find a way. This is a precept that got President Trump elected, and we're not going to stop fighting for that. It's a national security issue.” RAISE Act Proven To Work: “The RAISE Act moves us to an immigration system based on merit, just like Canada and Australia. They’ve had this for decades and they’re attracting the best and brightest of the world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.20.2017	09.20.17 Senator David Perdue Introduces Georgia Federal Judge Nominees in Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced President Trump’s nominees for two judicial vacancies on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, William M. “Billy” Ray, II, of Grayson, Georgia, and Michael L. Brown, of Atlanta, Georgia, in their Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing. Click here or on the image below to watch. Transcript: “It is my high honor to be here today to introduce two outstanding individuals who have been nominated by President Trump to fill two judicial vacancies in the Northern District of Georgia – Mr. Mike Brown and Judge Billy Ray. I will be brief and echo what the senior senator from Georgia has just done to introduce these two fine men. Both of these gentlemen have served my state well in various positions throughout the course of their careers. After graduating with honors from the University of Georgia School of Law in 1994, Mike went on to clerk for Judge J.L. Edmondson on the Atlanta-based Eleventh Circuit. He served for six years as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Northern District of Georgia and the Southern District Florida, where he tried more than two dozen cases. His career has included stints at two of Atlanta’s most respected law firms – King & Spalding and Alston & Bird, where he currently serves as co-chair of the Government and Internal Investigations Team. Judge Ray graduated from the University of Georgia School of Law with honors in 1990 and began his legal career as a trial attorney in private practice in Lawrenceville, Georgia. In 1996, Judge Ray won a seat in the Georgia State Senate where he served with distinction for six years. After being appointed by former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes to fill an unexpired term for a Superior Court judgeship in Gwinnett County in 2002, Judge Ray went on to serve in that position for 10 years and was the Presiding Judge for one of our state’s first treatment courts. Judge Ray currently sits on the Court of Appeals of Georgia where he has served since 2012. I’m proud to support both of these impressive nominees without reservation and applaud the President for his selection of two such qualified and well-regarded Georgians to fill these seats on the federal bench in my state. This is a high honor to introduce both of these candidates from Georgia.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.19.2017	09.19.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s United Nations Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s address at the United Nation’s General Assembly meeting: “American leadership is needed now, more than ever. The world is more dangerous than any time in my lifetime, and I am glad to see President Trump and UN Ambassador Nikki Haley aggressively taking on these challenges at the United Nations to get better results. President Trump was very clear that improving accountability and effectiveness at the United Nations is a top priority. For too long, the UN's budget process has lacked transparency, and the organization has relied too heavily on U.S. contributions. President Trump sent the message that all sovereign nations must come together in a united effort to counter North Korea's reckless behavior and the growing threats from Iran’s continued support of terrorist groups and human rights abuses.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.19.2017	09.19.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Passage Of Annual Defense Bill “Six years of arbitrary defense budget cuts and Washington's broken budget process have led us to this point.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, voted to prioritize troop readiness, expedite an audit of the Department of Defense, and increase service member pay in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, which included 30 of Senator Perdue’s priorities. “Over the last 30 years, Washington has disinvested in our military and we are seeing the dangerous impact of this decision,” said Senator Perdue. “This year’s defense bill is a step in the right direction but our military needs more support from Congress. Sixteen years at war, six years of arbitrary defense budget cuts, and Congress’ broken budget process have all led us to this point. Today, every dime we spend on our military, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and domestic discretionary programs is borrowed. This culmination of tragic disinvestment has created a situation where most of our major military platforms are approaching the end of their life, and many are already past this point. With $20 trillion of debt today, the challenge is how do we rebuild the military and reestablish readiness?” Senator Perdue secured 30 priorities in this year’s defense bill that address a range of issues from the readiness issues to acquisition reform and reinvesting capabilities in our warfighters. Here are some highlights: Protect JSTARS Readiness: Prohibits the use of FY18 funds to prematurely retire the JSTARS fleet, and requires a report on potential capability gaps should the Air Force decide to halt the JSTARS recapitalization program. A related provision also requires a briefing from the Air Force on addressing maintenance backlogs in the legacy fleet, as well as ensuring a sufficient maintenance plan. Additionally, the bill provides funding for the continued maintenance of the legacy fleet. Hold Iran Accountable: Requires additional reporting on technology transfers to and from Iran, including nuclear and ballistic missile technology. This also requires reporting on Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ use of civilian transportation infrastructure and assets for military purposes. Iran has been using civilian infrastructure to support Bashar al-Assad in Syria. This provision requires additional reporting on military cooperation between Iran and Syria, North Korea, Cuba, Venezuela, Russia, Pakistan, Sudan, and other countries as identified by the Secretary of Defense. Department of Defense Audit: Clarifies the Department of Defense’s audit-related terminology and reconciles it with that which is used in other government agencies and the private sector. This provision also requires a ranking of how far along all defense agencies and activities are with the audit annually. Expedite “Clean” Audit: Improves Department of Defense accountability and urges swift compliance with the CFO Act of 1990 which requires the department to obtain a “clean” audit opinion. The Department of Defense is the only federal agency has not complied with the law. This provision also directs the Defense Business Board to study audit progress to date and propose incentives and actionable recommendations for improving the Department of Defense’s standing. Supporting The All-Volunteer Force: Improves military readiness by authorizing an increase in the size of the total force, including a plus-up of 5,000 active duty Army, 1,000 active duty Marines, 500 Army Reserve, and 500 Army National Guard. Allow Joint Use of Dobbins Air Reserve Base: Reverses a 1989 prohibition on joint use of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, opening up the possibility of greater community partnerships as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force. These public-private partnerships will help offset operating costs for Dobbins, and foster better community relations. Columbia Class SSBN: Kings Bay is home to the Atlantic fleet of the nuclear submarines, the most survivable leg of our nation’s nuclear triad. This year’s bill keeps the Ohio Class replacement plan for the new fleet of nuclear submarines on track to ensure there will not be a capability gap. Protects A-10s: Funds the A-10 Thunderbolt II to stay online, and funds a necessary wing overhaul, which was on the Air Force unfunded requirements list. Encourage Direct Hire Authority: Requests a status update and encourages swift implementation of the Department of Defense’s authorized use of direct hire authorities to resolve critical backlogs for civilians who work in defense depots, ranges, and labs. As of today, the Department of Defense has yet to implement the policy changes, leading to continued readiness issues. Support Minority Women In STEM: Secures funds to support the creation of a center of excellence for promoting minority women in STEM at an Historically Black Colleges and Universities to increase the participation of all American citizens in defense and related national security efforts. Cyber-Training Initiatives: In 2013, the Secretary of Defense directed the standup of the Cyber Missions Forces and asked the Services to create a joint, federated cyber training program that would avoid duplication and build upon the strengths of each service. This language requests the issue be resolved in the next budget planning cycle and requests an update for the committee. Encourage Cross-Service Depot Maintenance: Expresses concern about this backlog and directs the Secretary of Defense to assess feasibility of using cross-service depot maintenance within the organic industrial base to avoid future backlogs. The Navy has a well-documented fighter pilot readiness problem due in large part to depot maintenance backlogs. Space-Based Sensor: Directs the Missile Defense Agency to develop a space-based sensor architecture using sound acquisition practices for a highly reliable and cost-effective persistent space-based sensor architecture capable of supporting the ballistic missile defense system. This is in response to the growing threat from North Korea and Iran to protect the homeland. Harness Commercial Off-The-Shelf Technology: Encourages the Department of Defense to use commercial off-the-shelf technology to save money from unnecessary research and development (R&D) and help the department acquire new equipment and systems faster. M4 Rail: Although the Army has made over 90 upgrades to the M4 carbine rifle, it still uses a legacy rail system that is inferior to rails currently in use by other parts of the forces. This provision encourages the Army to examine using a free-float rail system, which would lead to greater accuracy for the warfighter compared to the current legacy rail. DLA Reverse Engineering: Ensures the Department of Defense protects patented intellectual property that is shared by small businesses working with the Department. Item Tracking Compliance Report: Directs the Department of Defense to report to Congress on the progress for complying with the Item Unique Identification policy that was released in 2003 to better track department resources. Holistic Equipment Strategy: Instructs the Department of Defense to take a holistic approach to the acquisition strategy for service members’ individual equipment. This is in an effort to help lighten the load for warfighters and encourage the latest commercially available materials to be integrated. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Senator David Perdue On Fox News: Immigration Solution Should Include RAISE Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with ‎Ainsley Earhardt, Steve Doocy, and Pete Hegseth on Fox News Channel’s Fox & Friends about the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act and why it should be included in any solution to fix our country’s immigration problems. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Bipartisan Solution: “I applaud President Trump for reaching out. There is going to have to be a bipartisan solution to DACA. We all want a compassionate solution, but it must also include a fix to our archaic, 50-year old immigration system. That solution should include the RAISE Act. It eliminates chain migration and for once brings us merit based immigration.” Historic Opportunity: “This is a national security issue. Parts of that border need a wall. There’s no question about it. President Trump said we are going to build a wall and we will build that wall. Let's not miss this historic opportunity to fix this immigration system to better our economy.” Securing America: “We’d love to have e-verify, the wall, security for the border, and the RAISE Act. These are things that conservatives in America really want. If you look at President Trump’s election last year, you can see that today.” Broad Support: “The RAISE Act is extremely popular. Nearly three-fourths of Americans want some sort of reform of the immigration system to focus it on the worker and the immediate family.” Top Priority For Americans: “This is an issue the American people want solved. Almost two-thirds of Americans believe this needs to be a merit-based immigration system just like the President has outlined. Tom Cotton and I have been working on this for months. It should be a bipartisan solution because the Democrats first had the idea in the 1990s.” Breaking Through Gridlock: “Forget about partisan politics, the American people want to break through the gridlock and get this resolved. President Trump wants results.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.15.2017	09.15.17 Senator David Perdue Interviews Blue Ridge Student In Senate Page Program On Facebook Live WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) interviewed Evelyn Doss, a high school junior from Blue Ridge, Georgia, about her experience in the U.S. Senate Page Program on Facebook Live. To view the interview, click here or on the image below. Click here to download a high-resolution photo. “Congratulations to Evelyn and her family on her acceptance into the Senate Page Program,” said Senator Perdue. “As an impressive young leader in her school and community, Evelyn has certainly earned this high honor, and I look forward to hearing about her continued success in the future.” Evelyn is the first page Senator Perdue has appointed to the program. She is a student at Fannin County High School and participates in student government, mock trial, and drama club. Evelyn is also a member of the National Honor Society and plays the flute in her school’s band. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Senators Release Bipartisan Recommendations For Economic Growth In Appalachia Partner With Bipartisan Policy Center To Address Region’s Most Pressing Needs WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Mark Warner (D-VA) joined the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Appalachia Initiative to release a bipartisan report to boost prosperity and economic growth in the region. Over the past few months, the senators led policy roundtables with regional and national stakeholders on four critical topics: entrepreneurism and job creation, energy and infrastructure, rural health, and education and workforce, and then developed 19 bipartisan recommendations designed to address the region's most pressing economic needs. Click here to download a photo and click here to watch the panel discussion. L-R: Bipartisan Policy Center President Jason Grumet, Senator Manchin, Senator Perdue, Senator Warner, Senator Tillis “The economic miracle we witnessed over the last 70 years was built on innovation and capital formation,” said Senator Perdue, who led on entrepreneurism and job creation. “We must encourage innovators to stay and invest in Appalachia to help spark growth in the region.” “We must take advantage of the region's abundant energy resources and economic opportunities while working to overcome our infrastructure challenges,” said Senator Manchin, who led on energy and infrastructure. “With the right investments and smart policy, we can benefit from the energy transition now underway, as well as build and modernize transportation, water and sewer, and broadband infrastructure for the next century.” “To reach communities in Appalachia experiencing poor health outcomes, we will need creative partnerships that leverage federal, state, local, and private resources to ensure that both clinical and community-based services are available to those who need them most,” said Senator Tillis, who led on rural health. “Lifelong education and worker training – not just to get a job but to hold one – are key building blocks for sustainable economic development in Appalachia,” said Senator Warner, who led on education and workforce. “We should focus on ideas that are proven to work, helping people to successfully acquire the skills that create opportunity for the region.” The senators’ recommendations are outlined in Appalachia Initiative: A Bipartisan Approach for the 21st Century, which conveys the need for federal support, state and local coordination, and partnerships with businesses and academic institutions. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Former Joint Chiefs Chairman, Admiral Mike Mullen WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with Admiral Mike Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Following his distinguished military career in the U.S. Navy, Admiral Mullen now helps those both inside and outside the government navigate the ever intensifying global security crisis. To download a high-resolution photo, click here or on the image below. “The greatest threat to our national security is our national debt,” said Senator Perdue. “The world is more dangerous now than any time in my lifetime and yet because of our government’s own intransigence, our military is in a weakened state. Today, we have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the smallest and oldest Air Force ever. Admiral Mullen and I agree that our country’s financial situation cannot be ignored any longer. It’s time to get serious about solving the nation’s debt crisis so we can fund our military and confront the global security crisis before those threats are sitting on our doorstep.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Debt Surpassing $20 Trillion WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on our nation’s debt surpassing the $20 trillion mark: “If a tree falls in the forest and no one is there, does it still make a sound? One thing is for sure, most Americans don’t know yesterday our country’s debt surpassed the $20 trillion mark. This should have sounded the alarms in Washington. Instead, today it is business as usual. “Washington has got to wake up. This debt crisis is well past the tipping point and it is directly impacting our ability to fund our priorities. A perfect example is natural disaster relief funds. This isn’t anything new. The warning signs have been there. What’s been missing is the political will to do something about it. We can get out of this debt crisis but first we will have to fix Congress’ budget process.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Respond to Aftermath of Hurricane Irma Send thanks to all levels of response, share resources for recovery efforts WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of Hurricane Irma’s impact on Georgia, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released additional information on aid and recovery efforts while praising the thorough and direct responses of local, state, and federal preparedness officials. The senators cautioned that Georgians should only return home after local officials say that it is okay and keep in mind that Hurricane Irma may have ongoing impacts and disruptions to daily activities because of its widespread damage across the state. Georgia state parks are able to provide shelter for 5,000 individuals. A state of emergency remains in effect for all 159 Georgia counties through Sept. 17. There are currently more than one million without power across the state. Three deaths have been reported as a result of the storm. “Hurricane Irma was a serious and devastating storm that affected our entire state along with millions of people in neighboring states and multiple countries,” said Senator Isakson. “Thanks to the preparation efforts by Governor Deal in close coordination with state, local and federal officials in advance of Hurricane Irma, Georgia was ready to respond on all levels. I appreciate the efforts by Georgia officials, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and all of the local first responders and medical personnel who helped keep Georgians aware and alert before and during Hurricane Irma. My prayers are with all those who experienced loss during this terrible storm and with the emergency first responders working to aid those in need.” “Since Hurricane Irma hit Georgia, Governor Deal, our first responders, the Georgia National Guard, the Georgia Department of Transportation, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency have been working around the clock to help keep Georgians safe,” said Senator Perdue. “Everyone is doing an incredible job responding to emergency calls and providing Georgians in the storm’s path with real-time updates. Like many Georgians, Bonnie and I evacuated this weekend too, and we encourage everyone to pay attention to the official schedules for returning home. Senator Isakson and I remain in constant contact with Governor Deal’s office, and our state and federal agencies, as they begin to assess the damages and get our communities up and running again.” Senators Isakson and Perdue urged Georgians to follow guidance from the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency before returning home or to businesses to help prevent additional risks. On Sept. 8, ahead of the storm, Senators Isakson, Perdue and the Georgia congressional delegation sent a letter to President Trump in support of Governor Deal’s request for a state of emergency declaration for Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Irma. In response, the president quickly approved initial disaster assistance requests and issued an emergency declaration for Georgia to provide direct federal assistance to the state. A day before the storm’s arrival in Georgia, Governor Deal issued a final state of emergency declaration for all 159 Georgia counties on Sunday, Sept. 10, 2017, and closed state government on Sept. 11 and 12 for all employees except essential personnel. Governor Deal today issued a post-disaster request for public assistance, including direct federal assistance in all 159 Georgia counties for items such as public safety and debris removal. Six coastal counties, Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh, are included in a new request for individual private assistance that was submitted today. State of emergency declaration requests help mitigate the impacts of the storm and provide a quicker response in its aftermath. The Georgia congressional delegation is working with Governor Deal and the Trump administration to ensure that full federal resources are made available to those in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days. Georgians can find out more about and apply for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance or register your sustained damage here. Georgians can also self-report basic damage information on homes, businesses, and public facilities with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency here. Additional Georgia hurricane resources: View up-to-date emergency declarations from Governor Deal here. View a list of Georgia shelter locations here or call 1-800-TRY-GEMA. Download FEMA’s app with emergency information by county here. Download Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency’s Ready Georgia mobile with the “I’m safe” alert feature here. Follow Georgia 511 for real-time traffic 24/7. List you and your family as safe with the Red Cross here. Red Cross disaster assistance: 1-877-500-8645. See safety tips from the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency here. Volunteer to get involved with recovery efforts after Hurricane Irma has passed with local and nationally known organizations. A list of volunteer websites is available at www.nvoad.org. For additional updates, please visit the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight to Protect Critical Surveillance Aircraft Offer amendment to NDAA to ensure Georgia-based JSTARS remains ‘national defense priority’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today introduced an amendment to the fiscal year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure that the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) is maintained as a national defense priority. The amendment would prohibit the use of funds by the U.S. Air Force to prematurely retire the E–8 JSTARS aircraft, based out of Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia, while ensuring that the Air Force maintains the entire current fleet. Additionally, the amendment requires the Department of Defense to continue with the current recapitalization of JSTARS unless the secretary of defense can certify that there will not be increased capability gaps. The Air Force has previously identified the JSTARS recapitalization as its number four acquisition priority. “Our number one priority is ensuring that the men and women in uniform have the best available tools at their disposal when we send them into battle," said Isakson. “JSTARS provides unparalleled battle management, command and control, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities. It has proven itself indispensable in our campaign to defeat ISIL, in counter-terrorism operations, and even during the current hurricane disaster responses. We will fight against any effort to prematurely retire this critical national defense asset. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment to ensure we do not leave our warfighters with a capabilities gap in future missions.” “Make no mistake, our military needs to have cutting edge platforms and equipment to use in combat today and in the future,” said Perdue. “Today, JSTARS is our nation’s premier Battle Management, Command and Control (BMC2) asset used in theater. In fact, right now, the Air Force does not have another asset that can sufficiently replace JSTARS capabilities. It's extremely concerning that the Air Force is considering ending this critical program without a plan to avoid a potential extended capability gap.” Senators Isakson and Perdue have worked to ensure the capability and presence of the current JSTARS fleet until the new fleet is at full operational capacity. In addition, Senators Isakson and Perdue have repeatedly requested that funding for JSTARS be prioritized in Department of Defense budget requests. Last week, Senators Isakson and Perdue sent a letter with Georgia U.S. Representatives Austin Scott (R-GA), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), and Tom Graves (R-GA), to Defense Secretary James Mattis urging against wasting taxpayer funding by continuing to explore alternative platforms after multiple studies have recommended continued pursuit of the recapitalization efforts of the JSTARS fleet. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Hurricane Irma & Tax Priorities On CNBC WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Joe Kernen on CNBC’s Squawk Box about Hurricane Irma’s impact on Georgia and President Trump’s efforts to overhaul the tax code to help middle-class families and make America more competitive. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Responding To Hurricane Irma: “We had a big storm. There was an 11-foot surge in Savannah because it hit at high tide yesterday. Georgia's digging out today. As I was evacuating over the weekend, I noticed dozens of out of state power trucks headed down to restore electricity. So water and wind are a big story in Georgia. Unfortunately, we did have three fatalities and over a million people are still without power. We've got to get power going again and make sure people can return to their homes safely.” Doing The Right Thing: “Congress stepped up and voted for relief funding in a moment of crisis. The problem is, in the future, we're going to have less and less of the ability to deal with these emergencies. In a moment of crisis, we do what we have to do.” Spending Borrowed Money: “Every dollar that President Trump and Congress allocated toward relief for Harvey and now for Irma, is borrowed money. We've had this conversation. Because of our debt crisis, we’re losing the right to do the right thing.” Making America More Competitive: “Our corporate rates are not competitive with the rest of the world. That makes our companies in the U.S. very vulnerable. We are the last country to have a repatriation tax. Those two things alone will free up a lot of capital and get our economy going again.” Americans Expect Tax Changes: “We've got to get this priority done at all cost. That's what the American people want. I just spent several weeks around Georgia and I can tell you that’s exactly what people expect. If we can get this tax package done in some form, this economy is ready to turn right now.” Washington Is Out Of Touch: “These scoring models up here have no relation to the real world. We've got to change the way Washington decides on these financial matters, including the budget process. All of this finagling around scoring doesn’t lead to the right decisions in many cases.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.11.2017	09.11.17 Senator David Perdue: The Stories Of Heroism And Faith Will Not Be Forgotten “Out of one of the darkest days in our country’s history came the spirit of American resolve and resilience.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the sixteenth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Even sixteen years after the terrorist attacks on September 11th, the stories of heroism and faith will not be forgotten. Out of one of the darkest days in our country’s history came the spirit of American resolve and resilience. These ruthless attacks meant to cripple us as a nation and shake our foundation only united us and made us stronger. Today, the world is more dangerous than any time in my lifetime. The terrorist attacks of September 11th are stern reminders that we must remain vigilant here at home by taking every precaution to protect the safety of all Americans. Today, we honor the over 3,000 victims and their families, as well as the thousands of brave men and women who continue fighting every day to defend our nation." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.11.2017	09.11.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Hurricane Irma Preparation Efforts In Georgia ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the ongoing Hurricane Irma preparation efforts in Georgia: “I join all Georgians in applauding the ongoing efforts of our first responders, state and local government officials, and emergency volunteers. Across the state, we have seen Georgians come together and help others as we brace for this dangerous storm. Currently, folks across the state have turned their churches, schools, and community centers into shelters to assist not only Georgians, but also Floridians. Thank you to everyone who is lending a helping hand. We must continue to take precautions seriously. My team stands ready to help, but the most important thing right now is to continue to heed these warnings and prepare accordingly.” Georgia Hurricane Resources: View up-to-date emergency declarations from Governor Deal here. View a list of Georgia shelter locations here or call 1-800-TRY-GEMA. Download FEMA’s app with emergency information by county here. Download GEMHSA’s Ready Georgia mobile with the “I’m safe” alert feature here. Follow Georgia 511 for real-time traffic 24/7. Self-report basic damage information on homes, businesses, and public facilities with GEMHSA here. Apply for FEMA assistance or register your sustained damage here. List you and your family as safe with the Red Cross here. Red Cross disaster assistance: 1-877-500-8645. See safety tips from the Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.08.2017	09.08.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Nomination Of Georgian Bobby Christine To U.S. Attorney Christine nominated to Southern District of Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the announcement by President Trump of his intent to nominate Bobby L. Christine of Evans, Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. Christine was appointed in 2012 to serve as State Judge Advocate for the Georgia National Guard. While also practicing as a litigator at his private firm, Christine and Evans, he has served as a part-time Judge of Magistrate Court for Columbia County since his appointment in 2005. Previously, he served for a decade as a prosecutor in the District Attorney’s Office in Augusta, Georgia, and as chief of the Columbia County division. Christine has also served in the U.S. military, having joined the National Guard at age 17 and earned his commission as an officer at age 19. He has been a combat engineer platoon leader and company executive officer, a Judge Advocate General (JAG) Trial Counsel, Brigade Judge Advocate, and Staff Judge Advocate. Christine earned numerous medals for his meritorious service in Iraq as a Judge Advocate General and a combat engineer with the 265th Engineer Group. Christine earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Georgia and his law degree at Cumberland School of Law at Samford University in 1995. Christine and his wife Sheri have two daughters and one son. “Bobby Christine has served our state and nation in countless ways, and I look forward to his continued service,” said Senator Isakson. “I applaud President Trump on another outstanding choice for U.S. attorney.” “Bobby Christine is an experienced legal professional and has served our state and nation for years,” said Senator Perdue. “Once again President Trump made another great nomination. I look forward to working with Bobby through the Senate confirmation for his nomination to a U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia.” The Southern District of Georgia includes 43 of Georgia’s 159 counties in the southeastern region of the state. The White House press release on today’s announcement can be found here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.07.2017	09.07.17 Senator David Perdue: Congress Must Get Its Financial House In Order “Congress will not be able to continue dealing with these emergencies if we don’t have a functioning government that can pay its bills.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor after supporting President Trump’s bipartisan deal to provide relief for Hurricane Harvey victims and highlighted how Washington’s refusal to deal with the broken budget process got us into this debt crisis. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Hurricane Harvey: “Our hearts go out to the people impacted by Hurricane Harvey. I relate to this personally because just last year, almost exactly to the day, my family was evacuated from our home in South Georgia.” Losing Ability To Do Right Thing: “Hurricane Irma reminds us of a bigger issue—that because of our inability to get our financial house in order and the resulting debt crisis we have today, we're losing the right to do the right thing, whether it's medical research, infrastructure, education, or funding our military.” Getting Finances In Order: “Moving forward, we will not be able to continue dealing with these emergencies and crises if we don’t have a functioning federal government that can pay its bills and has its financial house in order.” Arbitrary Measure: “I would argue the debt ceiling has been the most ineffective thing that I've seen in the United States Senate. It's been extended or increased over a hundred times, and it has not slowed down deficit spending in Congress. It has not kept us from being in $20 trillion of debt today.” Spending Borrowed Money: “Every dollar we're spending on our defense, our veterans, and our discretionary domestic programs, like what we're doing here today, is borrowed money. This simply cannot continue.” Saw This Coming: “Back in June, I led a group of senators who listed the debt ceiling as one of the key reasons why we thought we ought to stay here during the month of August instead of going home for the state work period. We felt that this needed to be debated and we needed to get to a long-term solution.” Overdue Action: “The debt ceiling issue should have been resolved way before now. We actually hit this debt ceiling earlier this year. The Treasury is now using extraordinary measures to keep the government funded during this period of uncertainty. In fact, we hit the debt ceiling at a time when we should have been dealing with the budget.” Debt Ceiling Isn’t The Issue: “The debt ceiling has got to be dealt with, but it is not the driver of our problems. The budget process is the underlying release valve that causes this problem. It allows both parties to spend money that we don't have.” There Is A Solution: “The budget process is broken but can be fixed. Right now, we have Democrats and Republicans working together behind the scenes to find a bipartisan, politically neutral platform that responsibly funds the federal government without all this drama and without the release valve of extra spending.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.07.2017	09.07.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue: Take Hurricane Irma Threat Seriously Urge Georgians to follow evacuation recommendations, prepare for potential threat WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today urged Georgians to take seriously the threat posed by Hurricane Irma. Governor Nathan Deal expanded the state of emergency on Thursday to 30 Georgia counties that could potentially be impacted by the storm: Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Brantley, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Camden, Candler, Charlton, Chatham, Clinch, Coffee, Echols, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Glynn, Jenkins, Jeff Davis, Liberty, Long, McIntosh, Pierce, Screven, Tattnall, Toombs, Treutlen, Wayne and Ware Counties. As officials continue to monitor Hurricane Irma’s path in the days ahead, Senators Isakson and Perdue further caution Georgians to follow state and local officials’ safety guidance in advance of the storm. The storm is expected to begin affecting Georgia later this week. “We have learned time and again that preparedness saves lives,” said Senator Isakson. “Hurricanes provide warnings that they are coming, and I urge Georgians to take advantage of this window of time to prepare their homes and properties, and more importantly, to heed evacuation advice. We will pray for all those staying to aid in emergency work, and we are working closely with Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the storm moves closer to the Georgia coast. As always, Senator Perdue and I will work together in the Senate and do all we can to support all levels of storm response.” “Hurricane Irma is a life-threatening storm that has the potential to impact many Georgians as it makes landfall in the United States,” said Senator Perdue. “For everyone’s safety, including the safety of our first responders, everyone must take this storm seriously. Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the American Red Cross are working hard to prepare for Hurricane Irma and will continue to update Georgians as the situation develops. As we saw with the devastation in Houston, we must take potential threats seriously and prepare accordingly. My team stands ready to help, but the most important thing right now is to heed these warnings.” Senators Isakson and Perdue also reminded Georgians that they can find information on preparedness efforts and storm updates from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency by visiting www.gema.ga.gov. Individuals can also visit http://ready.ga.gov/ or www.listo.gov to learn evacuation routes and preparedness tips for tropical storms and hurricanes. In accordance with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security’s hurricane preparedness advice, Isakson and Perdue urged Georgians to follow these safety precautions if a hurricane is likely in your area: Listen to the radio or TV or download the Ready Georgia app. Secure your home, close storm shutters and secure outdoor objects or bring them indoors. Turn off utilities if instructed to do so. Otherwise, turn the refrigerator thermostat to its coldest setting and keep its doors closed. Learn how to keep food safe in an emergency. Turn off propane tanks. Avoid using the phone, except for serious emergencies. Moor your boat if time permits. Have a supply of water for sanitary purposes such as cleaning and flushing toilets. Fill the bathtub and other larger containers with water. As of Wednesday afternoon, Governor Deal has issued a state of emergency for six coastal Georgia counties: Bryan, Chatham, Liberty, McIntosh, Glynn and Camden counties. Should Georgians be directed by local authorities to evacuate, they should be sure to follow local authority’s instructions to do so. In addition, Georgians outside of these counties but within the storm’s wake should evacuate under the following conditions: If you live in a mobile home or temporary structure – such shelters are particularly hazardous during a hurricane no matter how well fastened to the ground. If you live in a high-rise building – hurricane winds are stronger at higher elevations. If you live on the coast, on a floodplain, near a river, or on an island waterway. If you are unable to evacuate, go to a safe room. If you do not have one, follow these guidelines: Stay indoors during the hurricane and away from windows and glass doors. Close all interior doors – secure and brace external doors. Take refuge in a small interior room, closet or hallway on the lowest level. If flooding occurs, be prepared to take shelter on a floor above the flooding. Avoid elevators. Senators Isakson and Perdue urged evacuees to bring water, non-perishable snacks and emergency supplies for their journeys, be aware of fellow travelers and make careful assessments before returning home. Before evacuating, Georgians should: Move electronics, valuables and important documents to a safe place. Roll up area rugs where possible and store them on higher floors or elevations. Shut off electrical service at the main breaker if the electrical system and outlets may be under water. If expenses are incurred due to protecting homes in preparation for coming storms and flooding – such as purchasing sandbags – it may be possible to file a claim against individual National Flood Insurance Program flood policies for reimbursement. Georgians should call their insurance agent to discuss your coverage and learn more. The American Red Cross has available a list of locations where evacuees can seek safe shelter, hot meals and essential relief supplies on their website here: http://www.redcross.org/get-help/disaster-relief-and-recovery/find-an-open-shelter. After the hurricane, local authorities may not be able to immediately provide information about what is happening and what you should do. Residents should listen to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather Radio, watch local TV or check the internet often for official news and instructions as they become available. In addition, the following guidelines are recommended for staying safe after Hurricane Irma: Stay out of flood waters, if possible. The water may be contaminated or electrically charged. However, should you find yourself trapped in your vehicle in rising water get out immediately and seek higher ground. Be alert for tornadoes and flooding. If you see a funnel cloud or if local authorities issue a tornado warning take shelter underground or in an interior room away from windows. If waters are rising quickly or local authorities issue a flood or flash flood warning, seek higher ground. Stay away from downed power lines to avoid the risk of electric shock or electrocution. Do not return to your home until local authorities say it is safe. Even after the hurricane and once flood waters recede, roads may be weakened and could collapse. Buildings may be unstable, and drinking water may be contaminated. Use common sense and exercise caution. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.07.2017	09.07.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Comment On Georgia Federal Judge Nominees Branch nominated to 11th Circuit, Baker to Southern District WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statements regarding President Trump’s announcement of his intent to nominate two Georgians to fill vacant federal judicial seats on the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals and the Southern District of Georgia. President Trump intends to nominate Judge Elizabeth L. “Lisa” Branch, of Atlanta, to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. Branch has served as the 77th Judge on the Georgia Court of Appeals since September 4, 2012. For the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia, President Trump intends to nominate R. Stan Baker of St. Simons Island, Georgia, where he has served as magistrate judge for the same district since February 3, 2015. “I applaud the president’s choices and look forward to working with these excellent judges as the confirmation process moves forward in the Senate,” said Senator Isakson. “Once again President Trump has nominated two impressive Georgians to fill judicial vacancies in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “I look forward to working through the Senate confirmation process with Lisa Branch on her nomination to a Georgia-based seat on the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals and Stan Baker on his nomination to be a judge in the Southern District of Georgia.” The White House press release on today’s announcement can be found here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.06.2017	09.06.17 Senator David Perdue: Making America More Competitive Is A Top Priority “Lowering our corporate tax rate will put U.S. companies back on a level playing field.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on President Trump’s speech on tax reform in North Dakota: “President Trump is right that a top priority when it comes to fixing our tax system is to make American businesses more competitive with the rest of the world. We’ve got to lower our corporate tax rate. We also have several trillion dollars stuck overseas in U.S. profits because of our repatriation tax. Getting rid of that archaic tax in its entirety and lowering our corporate tax rate will put U.S. companies back on a level playing field. President Trump has my full support as he continues to make America more competitive and simplify our tax system for everyone.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.06.2017	09.06.17 Senator David Perdue: August 2017 In Photos ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue shared a behind the scenes look at some of his travels throughout Georgia during the Senate’s state work period. Download the full gallery here. 1. Savannah – Meeting with law enforcement officers at the Peace Officers Association of Georgia’s annual conference. 2. Atlanta – Discussing the importance of American investment and diplomacy around the world at the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition. 3. Blairsville – Speaking to the Blairsville-Union County Chamber of Commerce about issues that matter to the business community. 4. Savannah – Visiting Gulfstream to learn about the tremendous economic impact it has on Georgia. 5. Sandy Springs – Addressing the Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber of Commerce. 6. Atlanta – Discussing important issues with community leaders. 7. Blue Ridge – Meeting with local employers and community leaders. 8. Atlanta – Holding a roundtable discussion with Atlanta press. 9. Gainesville – Joining B.J. Williams on WDUN Radio. 10. Columbus – Getting ready to speak at the 2017 Jim Blanchard Leadership Forum at Columbus State University. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
09.05.2017	09.05.17 Senator David Perdue: The RAISE Act Should Be Part Of Congress’ Immigration Solution “Any immigration proposals considered by Congress must protect the interests of working Americans.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “President Obama acted outside of his constitutional authority when he unilaterally changed our immigration laws through executive order. It is clear President Trump and Attorney General Sessions are committed to tackling the problems with our broken immigration system. Moving forward, it is imperative that any immigration proposals considered by Congress protect the interests of working Americans, including immigrants. We cannot repeat the mistakes of the past with a comprehensive immigration bill that does not work. The RAISE Act’s changes to our legal immigration system should be part of the solution. I will continue working with Senator Cotton and my colleagues to advance this merit-based system that is pro-worker, pro-growth, and proven to work.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.30.2017	08.30.17 Senator David Perdue: Failure To Deliver On Tax Is Not An Option “Americans are watching the tax debate closely and counting on Congress to deliver real results.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on President Trump’s speech on tax reform: “President Trump's comments today are spot on. Thanks to American voters, we now have the opportunity to create a new tax system that is fairer for everyone and makes our country competitive again. The clock is ticking. There are only 61 session days until the end of the year to pass a plan that eliminates the repatriation tax, lowers the corporate tax rate, and simplifies the individual tax system to bring relief to working men and women. Make no mistake, failure to deliver results on tax is not an option. “Consumer confidence is at a 16 year high and many businesses are investing and creating more jobs than ever before. We are on the cusp of an economic turnaround, and these tax changes must happen this year in order to have any real impact on business decisions that can produce significant economic growth. Americans are watching the tax debate closely and counting on Congress to deliver real results.” ###
08.28.2017	08.28.17 Senator David Perdue Stresses Importance Of American Global Leadership “We must continue America’s role as a global humanitarian leader.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue joined General Richard E. Hawley and Michael Goltzman at the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition to discuss the importance of American investment and diplomacy around the world. To download photos, click here or on the image below. (From left to right: Michael Goltzman, Senator Perdue, General Richard E. Hawley, Liz Schrayer) “As we work to combat a myriad of threats around the world, we must continue America’s role as a global humanitarian leader,” said Senator Perdue. “After years of failed policies and weak leadership abroad, there is still much work to do to reengage with the rest of the world and encourage development. A great place to start is with improving the effectiveness of foreign assistance. I’m proud of the role that many of Georgia’s public and private companies play in supporting America’s philanthropic interests. The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition is doing a great job at keeping this issue on the forefront of peoples’ minds.” “An effective national security strategy must include diplomacy and development, alongside defense,” said General Richard E. Hawley, U.S. Air Force (Ret). “As we face an ever-growing number of threats, our military needs the support of our nation’s civilian forces, and our diplomats need the support of a strong military— to negotiate peace, forge alliances, and secure the peace that military success makes possible.” “More than 80 percent of what we sell globally comes from outside the United States – so if Coca-Cola is going to continue to grow, then we have got to grow in international markets,” said Michael Goltzman, Vice President of Global Public Policy and International Government Relations for The Coca-Cola Company. “But we can’t build a regulatory system, we cannot create the rule of rule, we can’t make sure there is a level playing field. Working with the U.S. government is the only way to … create the foundation and the infrastructure that allows us to be successful and invest in those markets.” “From Afghanistan to North Korea to the next pandemic, the leaders here in Atlanta clearly understand that the stakes are too high for America to pull back from the world,” said USGLC President and CEO Liz Schrayer. “Senator Perdue has been a vital force protecting American investments in development and diplomacy – helping ensure our nation’s interests and values around the world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.25.2017	08.25.17 Senator David Perdue Addresses Blairsville-Union County Chamber Of Commerce BLAIRSVILLE, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue joined the Blairsville-Union County Chamber of Commerce to discuss issues that matter to the business community, including the debt crisis, tax reform, health care, and regulatory rollbacks. To download photos, click here or on the image below. “Georgia is one of the top places to do business,” said Senator Perdue. “We have a balanced budget law and low tax burdens that allow our businesses to thrive. The business-friendly climate is evident as some of the country’s most successful companies continue to bring jobs and facilities to Georgia at a rapid pace. Our state is a great example of how Washington should work. Georgia’s success is attributable in large part to the work of local organizations, like the Blairsville Chamber.” “The Blairsville-Union County Chamber of Commerce was honored to have U.S. Senator David Perdue as the keynote speaker for our annual Power Lunch,” said Regina Allison, President and CEO of the Blairsville-Union County Chamber of Commerce. “The members and special guests in attendance all remarked at how honest and transparent he was in sharing about the direction our country is headed. He spoke openly about the debt crisis, health care reform, and the burdens of federal overregulation. Those in attendance found his direct business-like approach refreshing in the world of political rhetoric. U.S. Senator Perdue is a true public servant and we are fortunate have him representing the great state of Georgia in the Senate.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.24.2017	08.24.17 Senator David Perdue Addresses Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue joined the Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber to discuss issues that matter to the business community, including tax reform, health care, infrastructure, and regulatory rollbacks. To download photos, click here or on the image below. To download b-roll, click here. “It’s no secret Georgia is the best state to do business, and our state chambers deserve much credit for this success,” said Senator Perdue. “In order for Georgia to continue benefiting from pro-growth policies, Washington must work at a business-pace. President Trump has approached his new role with a business-like mindset and the results so far are nothing short of encouraging. While there is still a lot to do, I’m committed to advancing our Georgia priorities and getting government out of the way so we can unleash our full economic potential.” “The Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber was honored to have U.S. Senator David Perdue meet with the business leaders of Sandy Springs,” said Tom Mahaffey, President and CEO of the Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber. “Our members were impressed with his candor regarding health care, infrastructure, debt crises, and immigration. We were encouraged to hear Senator Perdue say that while he believes Congress can do a much better job of working together across the aisle, there are bipartisan efforts happening now, especially at the committee level. Georgia is privileged to have an outsider and businessman like Senator Perdue representing our state in the U.S. Senate.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.24.2017	08.24.17 Senator David Perdue Addresses Peace Officers Association Of Georgia SAVANNAH, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue addressed hundreds of law enforcement officers at the Peace Officers Association of Georgia 2017 Annual Training Conference. To download photos, click here or on the image below. “Every day officers across Georgia put their lives on the line to protect our communities and all Georgians,” said Senator Perdue. “At this time, our nation’s police forces need the support of all Americans in their mission to protect and serve. I join all Georgians in thanking our brave law enforcement officers and their families for their sacrifice and dedication to our community.” "The Peace Officers Association of Georgia is appreciative of the support of Senator Perdue and his work in the Senate to represent all Georgia Peace Officers in their efforts to serve and protect the citizens of Georgia," said John Edwards, Executive Director of the Peace Officers Association of Georgia. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.22.2017	08.22.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Visit To Southern Border “We now have a President who treats illegal immigration like the national security crisis that it is.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s visit to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection facility in Yuma, Arizona: “The American people elected President Trump because he shares our sense of urgency in securing our border to protect our country. After years of careless immigration policies and leaders who have turned a blind eye to the chaos at our southern border, it’s reassuring we now have a President who treats illegal immigration like the national security crisis that it is. In seven short months, the Trump Administration has already worked to advance Kate's Law, stop sanctuary cities from harboring illegal aliens, enforce existing deportation laws, decrease illegal border crossings, and tackle the problems at the root of our broken immigration system. Today’s visit is further proof of President Trump’s commitment to protecting all Americans.” Background: Senator Perdue is working to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system. To do so, he has: Introduced the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act to create a skills-based immigration system that will make America more competitive, raise wages for American workers, and better meet the needs of our economy. Co-sponsored the Securing the Border and Protecting Our Communities Act to withhold federal transportation grant funds from cities that refuse to cooperate with the Department of Justice and reallocate funds towards the completion of the border wall project authorized in the Secure Fence Act of 2006. Co-sponsored Kate’s Law to establish a 5-year mandatory minimum for those who unlawfully reenter the United States after being removed. Supported President Trump's efforts to build a wall to secure the U.S. border. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.21.2017	08.21.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Path Forward In Afghanistan WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s path forward for American involvement in Afghanistan: “President Trump and Secretary Mattis outlined a clear way forward for American involvement in Afghanistan. This is welcome news for our troops, our Afghan partners, and our allies working hard to eradicate terrorism and create stability. Due to weak leadership and arbitrary restrictions of President Obama’s Administration, the situation in Afghanistan is now at a stalemate. The Trump Administration's regional approach will take into account the interrelationship of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, while working to counter destructive foreign interests. Last month, I visited with General Nicholson, his commanders, the Afghan military and our troops on the ground, and this is exactly the type of plan and leadership from the White House they said they need. “Tonight, Americans, our troops, and our allies heard directly from President Trump that the United States of America refuses to let Afghanistan become a safe haven for radical Islamic terrorists to mount global attacks. I look forward to working with Secretary Mattis and General Nicholson to ensure they have the resources needed to properly implement this strategy and ensure success in Afghanistan.” ###
08.15.2017	08.15.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Efforts To Protect Intellectual Property “Intellectual property has a significant impact on a country’s economic competitiveness.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s directive to investigate China’s intellectual property laws to determine their impact on U.S. commerce: “I fully support President Trump’s efforts to protect America’s interests and engage our largest trade partner, China, on issues like intellectual property. Having lived and worked in Asia, I understand the importance of protecting intellectual property rights wherever they originate. Intellectual property has a significant impact on a country’s economic competitiveness. Ultimately, this action is in the best interest of both countries and the international community.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.09.2017	08.09.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses RAISE Act On Various Radio Shows “It’s pro-worker, pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recently discussed the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which would create a skills-based immigration system to make America more competitive, raise wages for American workers, and better meet the needs of our economy, on various radio shows. Attract the Best and Brightest: “For America to continue to be the economic leader, we’ve got to continue to be the innovator and we’ve got to continue to attract the best and brightest from around the world. We’ve also got to close this income gap between the skilled workers and the unskilled workers in America. This bill does all of that.” (Breitbart News Daily) Non-Partisan Issue: “The liberal left better look at their history because, honestly, they looked at this in the mid-90s under Bill Clinton and they said, ‘Look, we need to be more like Canada in relation to bringing in skilled workers with a merit-based system.’ This is something that really shouldn’t be that partisan, frankly.” (Breitbart News Daily) Fix the Broken System: “What our current system does is bring a worker in, and then they can bring their immediate family in and their extended family, like cousins and grandparents. … Immigration in the United States should not be based on that. It should be based on a merit system that’s been proven over decades in Canada and Australia to work.” (The Mike Gallagher Show) Proven Solution: “What we’ve come up with is pro-worker, pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work. It’s not an experiment.” (Morning Edition, WABE 90.1) Only Addresses Green Cards: “This bill is limited to only permanent legal residents. It’s only the green card side. We’re not addressing the temporary work visas that affect the agriculture, construction, and hospitality industries.” (Morning Edition, WABE 90.1) Thoughtful, Measured Approach: “The people in Congress and the people in Washington tend to go for these comprehensive, sweeping solutions for the entire thing. That's never worked. It won't work this time. So all we've done is carved out the green card piece of immigration and modeled this after something that Canada and Australia have already proven worked over the last few decades, and it's a merit-based system.” (The Laura Ingraham Show) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.09.2017	
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Bipartisan Effort To Protect Purple Heart Medals WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) led a bipartisan group of senators including, Senators Tom Udall (D-NM), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Susan Collins (R-ME), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Luther Strange (R-AL) to take action protecting the Purple Heart medal and stop second-hand dealers from profiting off of the sacrifices of America’s war heroes. The Senate passed this protection of one of our military’s highest honors for those who have fought to preserve our freedom by unanimous consent. “The Purple Heart represents the great sacrifice made by our servicewomen and men who are killed or injured while fighting to defend our freedoms,” said Senator Perdue. “This revered symbol of great military sacrifice deserves respect and should not be treated as a commodity to be bought and sold. I am glad the Senate has seen the value in preserving the honor of the sacrifices made by our servicewomen and men and joined me in putting a stop to profiteering off this treasured medal.” "We may never truly compensate these patriots for their blood and sacrifice, but we present the Purple Heart as a humble medallion of our appreciation for their service. It is unacceptable to continue allowing second-hand dealers to sell these precious medals and cheapen their value," said Senator Udall. "I'm proud to stand with my colleagues to ensure lost and recovered Purple Hearts are returned to our veterans and their families, where they belong." “Our servicemen and women sacrifice so much, giving selflessly to our country to keep us safe and protect our freedom,” said Senator Capito. “The Purple Heart recognizes the sacrifice they have made, and the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act will help protect that much-deserved honor. I was proud to co-sponsor this important legislation, which will prevent Purple Heart medals from being improperly sold for profit, and I am thrilled it passed the Senate today.” “There is no more powerful symbol of the sacrifices made by members of the armed services than the Purple Heart. The men and women who put themselves in harm’s way, and who carry the wounds of battle, deserve our deepest respect,” said Senator Collins. “Our legislation will help ensure these medals are safe from profiteers and continue to honor the brave servicemembers who have made many sacrifices to protect our country and uphold our freedoms.” “The men and women who earn the Purple Heart have made unimaginable sacrifices for our country, and the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act honors and commemorates those sacrifices by protecting the integrity of this sacred symbol,” said Senator Leahy. “As a cosponsor of this bill I am proud to have supported this award’s long line of recipients, including Vermont’s own Major Zachariah Fike, who was instrumental in making this bill’s passage a reality.” “The Purple Heart recognizes brave sacrifices and lasting physical scars,” said Senator Strange. “I am proud to stand with Senator Perdue and my colleagues to reaffirm that no price can be placed on the significance of this decoration.” Background: Senator Perdue introduced the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act on March 29, 2017. Companion legislation was introduced by Congressman Paul Cook (R-CA-8) in the House of Representatives on January 13, 2017. Private Corrado Piccoli was an Infantryman assigned to Company H, 180th Infantry Regiment, which fell under the 45th Infantry Division. Corrado was reported missing in action in the village of Fremifontaine, France, and later reported Killed in Action there on October 7, 1944. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Senators Perdue, Cotton Discuss RAISE Act On Tucker Carlson Tonight “It’s pro-worker, it’s pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) spoke with Tucker Carlson on Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson Tonight about the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which would create a skills-based immigration system that will make America more competitive, raise wages for American workers, and better meet the needs of our economy. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: System Proven To Work: “People out there in the real world get this. It’s pro-worker, it’s pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work in Canada and Australia.” Broken System Penalizes Americans: “Today, the system is so broken that only one out of every 15 who come into America come in with a skill. This is a broken system and it penalizes people who have been here and who just got here.” Pro-Growth Effort: “I can’t understand why anybody who wants a pro-growth effort in America would oppose this.” Top Priority: “This is what the President talked about in his campaign. It’s one of the reasons, quite frankly, I think he got elected, and I give him high marks for making this a priority in his new administration.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.03.2017	08.03.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses The RAISE Act On Fox News “This system is pro-worker, pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Brian Kilmeade on Fox News Channel’s Fox & Friends about the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which would create a skills-based immigration system that will make America more competitive, raise wages for American workers, and better meet the needs of our economy. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Top Priority For Americans: “Immigration was a seminal issue during the election last year. It’s one of the reasons President Trump got elected. He had an ear to what people in America were saying.” No Harm To Agriculture Industry: “What we're focused on in this bill is permanent legal immigration—green cards only. What Senator Graham is talking about, in the agriculture and tourism business, is more impacted by our temporary worker visa program, the H-1B, H-2A, and H-2B visas. They do need work. But that is not in the scope of what we’re doing in the RAISE Act.” System Proven To Work: “Almost 3/4 of Americans believe immigration should focused on the worker and the immediate family. Over 60% believe it ought to be merit-based. This system is pro-worker, pro-growth, and it’s been proven to work.” Global Economic Leader: “If we want to continue to be the innovator and global economic leader, we’ve got to simply bring in and be the brain sake for the best and brightest in the world. That is not what our current immigration system does.” On To Something Good: “Anytime a liberal politician starts fear-mongering you know you're on to something good. We’ve modeled this after Canada, a program they’ve proven for a decade works. It brings the right skills in. It balances the workforce, and it helps the wage disparity become more manageable.” Growing The Economy: “President Trump and I are from the business world. People in the real world can focus on two priorities at the time. This is absolutely pro-growth, and it means that we can fulfill the President's first goal to get the economy growing again.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Senators Perdue, Cotton Introduce The Reforming American Immigration For A Strong Economy Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) today will introduce the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, a bill that would spur economic growth and raise working Americans’ wages by giving priority to the best-skilled immigrants from around the world and reducing overall immigration by half. “President Trump campaigned on growing our economy and fixing our immigration system,” said Senator Perdue. “Right now, our current immigration system does not meet the needs of our economy. We want to welcome talented individuals from around the world who wish to come to the United States legally to work and make a better life for themselves. The RAISE Act will create a skills-based system that is more responsive to the needs of our economy and preserves the quality of jobs available to American workers.” “For decades, our immigration system has been completely divorced from the needs of our economy, and working Americans’ wages have suffered as a result. Our legislation will set things right,” said Senator Cotton. “We will build an immigration system that raises working wages, creates jobs, and gives every American a fair shot at creating wealth, whether your family came over on the Mayflower or just took the oath of citizenship.” Specifically, the RAISE Act would: Establish a Skills-Based Points System. The RAISE Act would replace the current permanent employment-visa system with a skills-based points system, akin to the systems used by Canada and Australia. The system would prioritize those immigrants who are best positioned to succeed in the United States and expand the economy. Applicants earn points based on education, English-language ability, high-paying job offers, age, record of extraordinary achievement, and entrepreneurial initiative. Prioritize Immediate Family Households. The RAISE Act would retain immigration preferences for the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents while eliminating preferences for certain categories of extended and adult family members. Eliminate the Outdated Diversity Visa Lottery. The Diversity Lottery is plagued with fraud, advances no economic or humanitarian interest, and does not even promote diversity. The RAISE Act would eliminate the 50,000 visas arbitrarily allocated to this lottery. Place a Responsible Limit on Permanent Residency for Refugees. The RAISE Act would limit refugees offered permanent residency to 50,000 per year, in line with a 13-year average. Click here to read the full text of the legislation. Additionally, click here for a section by section summary and here for a fact sheet on the legislation. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New FBI Director, Christopher Wray WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm Christopher Wray as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI): “Americans need someone they can trust to lead our nation’s highest law enforcement agency. I am confident that Christopher Wray will uphold the values and integrity of our Justice system as he works every day to keep Americans safe. There’s no question, his experience and qualifications make him the right person to take on this significant role. I’m delighted with his confirmation and I’m looking forward to working with Director Wray as he assumes his new post at the FBI.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate’s Effort To Repeal & Replace Obamacare “Throughout this entire process, we have witnessed everything that’s wrong with Washington.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate’s effort to repeal and replace Obamacare, which he supported. The effort ultimately failed tonight by a vote of 49 to 51. “Throughout this entire process, we have witnessed everything that’s wrong with Washington. The Senate had a real opportunity to dismantle the most damaging parts of Obamacare. As Republicans have railed against the failures of Obamacare for the last seven years, Democrats have failed to acknowledge any shortcomings of Obamacare and refused to try to fix a broken system. “Now, due to an unworkable budget process and politicians who put their political self-interests ahead of national interest, Obamacare remains the law of the land. This means that the poorest among us will continue to be fined because they can’t afford Obamacare. This means more than 300,000 Georgians below the poverty line will still not have access to the insurance Obamacare promised. Additionally, this means the Medicaid expansion will continue as an open-ended government program that cannot be sustained. “The American people should be outraged and should demand real change now. It is extremely important that we get this fixed. We have to make sure people have access to affordable health care, which they don’t under Obamacare. We have got to work to reduce premiums, which have skyrocketed and priced people out of the market. We have got to put Medicaid on a sustainable path and make sure preexisting conditions continue to be covered. Those are the big objectives and nothing has changed. Now, we have got to come together and get this done for the American people.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Senator David Perdue: It’s Finally Time To Trust The Free-Enterprise System WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee and the Senate Banking Committee, comments on the exclusion of the Border Adjustment Tax in the initial proposal to simplify our tax code: “It’s refreshing to see Congress and the White House working together to change our tax code. This, along with the ongoing effort to reform regulations, will renew our global competiveness. I’m glad that the Border Adjustment Tax is not included in this initial proposal. It’s finally time to trust the free-enterprise system. By simplifying the tax code, reducing the corporate tax rate to be competitive with the rest of the world, and eliminating our archaic repatriation tax, we have the opportunity to reestablish our economic leadership globally.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Impose Sanctions On Iran, Russia, & North Korea WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the Senate’s 98-2 vote to add U.S. sanctions against North Korea to the package of U.S. sanctions against Iran and Russia passed by the Senate on June 15: “These three regimes have become increasingly emboldened in their destabilizing behavior which we will not let stand. The Senate’s action to impose sanctions on North Korea could not come at a more important time. Just this week, the Defense Intelligence Agency found that North Korea could achieve an intercontinental ballistic missile next year, two years earlier than previously expected. It’s critical the United States uses every tool at our disposal to deter North Korea’s nuclear weapons program and protect the U.S. homeland.” On June 15, Senator Perdue supported the expansion of U.S. sanctions on Iran and Russia. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Senator David Perdue: This Failed System Isn’t Going To Fix Itself “The Senate's action this week is designed to increase competition, lower prices, and expand choices.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate’s vote to continue the process of repealing Obamacare: “Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight and soon the very people who need help the most will lose their insurance. In Georgia, 96 of 159 counties only have one health care provider leaving consumers with no choice. Premiums have risen more than 105% because of Obamacare making healthcare unaffordable for so many Georgians who need it most. To make matters worse, just a few weeks ago, the only provider in those 96 counties announced it will be increasing premiums 41% next year. Due to the flaws of Obamacare, more than 300,000 Georgians today do not have access to the insurance they were promised. “This failed system isn’t going to fix itself, and I am glad the Senate has started a full debate on ways to improve health care. For weeks, Democrats have refused to work with us on bipartisan solutions and today not one of them voted to help fix the damage they did to our health care system. The Senate's action this week is designed to increase competition, lower prices, and expand choices. Now that debate has begun, it is my hope Democrats decide to put aside their political self-interests and work with us to improve health care for Georgians and all Americans.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Senator David Perdue Takes To Senate Floor To Combat Democrat Misinformation On Obamacare “The problem is we have a campaign of disinformation that's underway right now.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke at 11:00 PM last night after presiding over the Senate floor, to combat Democrat’s continued stream of misinformation on the damaging effects of Obamacare and why the Senate must act now to fix the failing health care system. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Setting The Record Straight: “I don't think there's a member of this United States Senate that doesn't want America to have the best health care in the world. The problem is, we have a campaign of disinformation that's underway right now and it is outrageous, and I cannot let it stand.” Five Health Care Systems: “We only talk about Obamacare right now, but there are five health care systems in America. First, we have group policies. This is what the vast majority of Americans are in. Anybody who works in a company or in a large organization has a group policy. Then there's the individual market. The individual market is what Obamacare addresses, but it's only 13% of the entire health care system—only 13%. Then there's the VA, Medicare and Medicaid.” Obamacare Hurts People It Claims To Help: “Let me talk about who’s hurting people in America today. In 2014, the IRS – under Obamacare – fined nearly 8 million people almost $1.8 billion. The irony of that is that 85% of the people that were fined $1.8 billion in 2014 made less than $50,000, and almost half of them made less than $25,000.” CBO Numbers Don’t Add Up: “Today, the CBO is determined to be the Holy Grail up here in Washington. I haven’t seen a number come out of the CBO that I would depend on yet. In fact, in 2010, they overestimated the number of people who would sign up for Obamacare by 12 million people. They missed the estimate by more than 50%. This isn’t a rounding error.” Premiums Up Because Of Obamacare: “The premiums under Obamacare, prior to this year, over the last two years, are up over 105% in America. Democrats say premiums are going up because of uncertainty coming out of the White House. This year’s rates were determined last year before we even knew President Trump was going to be a nominee. It sounds like a good story, until you see the facts.” Georgia’s Reality Today: “The premiums in my state of Georgia alone, going into next year, are going up 42% and here’s the untold truth. In my state, 96 of 159 counties only have one carrier. That’s a monopoly. They can pretty much do whatever they want. That’s under Obamacare, not anything else we’re talking about. That’s the reality today.” Single-Payer? Double Your Tax Bill: “Big government does not work in situations like this. I lived under a single-payer. This is the alternative that Democrats are after. I’ve heard it mentioned three times on the floor of the Senate tonight. We cannot go there. It bifurcates delivery. It would add $3.2 trillion – that’s more than we spend on all mandatory expenses today – every single year. That’s impossible. If you think that will work, imagine this. Go home and look at your tax bill. Whatever you paid the federal government last year, double it.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.21.2017	07.21.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Nomination of Two Georgians to Serve as U.S. Attorneys Peeler nominated to Middle District, Pak nominated to Northern District WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the announcement by President Trump of his intent to nominate Charles E. Peeler to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia and Byung J. “BJay” Pak to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. Peeler has more than 17 years of litigation experience and currently resides in Albany, GA, where he founded an independent litigation firm. He was appointed by district court judges in the Middle District of Georgia to serve on the local rules advisory committee and was appointed by Georgia Governors Sonny Perdue and Nathan Deal to serve on the state Judicial Nominating Commission. Pak has almost 20 years of prosecution and litigation experience and currently resides in Atlanta, GA. He served as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Northern District of Georgia for six years and was formerly a state legislator. “These are two great Georgians whom the president intends to nominate to serve as U.S. attorneys,” said Senator Isakson. “I look forward to working with them as they go through the confirmation process in the Senate.” “President Trump has nominated two impressive Georgians to fill the U.S. Attorney vacancies in the Northern and Middle Districts of Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “I look forward to working with BJay Pak and Charles Peeler as they go through the Senate confirmation process.” The Middle District of Georgia includes 70 of Georgia’s 159 counties with a population of approximately 1,600,000. The Northern District of Georgia includes 46 counties in Georgia with a population of more than six million. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.21.2017	07.21.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Take Action To Protect Legal Options For Consumers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) are joining Senate Banking Chairman Mike Crapo (R-ID) in taking action to stop a government agency from implementing a final rule that discourages consumers and companies from settling their differences outside of the courtroom. To help protect consumers, the senators are filing a Congressional Review Act Joint Resolution of Disapproval against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) arbitration rule, which prohibits the use of pre-dispute arbitration agreements and ultimately encourages class action lawsuits. The CFPB issued this rule despite its own study showing that arbitration procedures actually result in consumers receiving larger and faster compensation payments than class actions. The Congressional Review Act, known as a CRA, permits Congress to overturn an agency rule by a simple majority vote within 60 legislative days after a final rule has been submitted to Congress. “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has overstepped its authority yet again with another punitive rule that would benefit trial lawyers but ultimately harm both consumers and job creators,” said Senator Isakson. “This resolution of disapproval will help stop another burdensome government regulation, and I urge my colleagues to support it.” “It makes no sense for the CFPB to issue a regulation that discourages arbitration, which has been used as a cost-effective method to resolve disputes,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. “There’s only one group that will benefit from this rule and that’s trial lawyers, not consumers. I applaud Chairman Crapo for putting consumers first and taking action to eliminate this rule.” “Members of Congress previously expressed concerns with the proposed version of the rulemaking – concerns that were not addressed in the final rule,” said Chairman Crapo. “The rule is based on a flawed study that leading scholars have criticized as biased and inadequate, noting that it could leave consumers worse off by removing access to an important dispute resolution tool. By ignoring requests from Congress to reexamine the rule and develop alternatives between the status quo and effectively eliminating arbitration, the CFPB has once again proven a lack of accountability. Given the problems with the study and the Bureau’s failure to address significant concerns, it is not only appropriate but incumbent on Congress to vote to overturn this rule.” In addition to Senators Isakson, Perdue, and Crapo, original co-sponsors of the measure include Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Bob Corker (R-TN), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Dean Heller (R-NV), James Lankford (R-OK), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Luther Strange (R-AL), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Roger Wicker (R-MS). ###
07.21.2017	07.21.17 Senator David Perdue Works To Improve 401(k) Portability “Auto portability will set millions of working Americans on a better path to a secure retirement” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) in urging the Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta to clear the path for implementation of 401(k) auto portability, which would make it easier for Americans to save for their future. On average, approximately 14 million Americans change jobs each year, and about 40% of those individuals opt to “cash out” their 401(k)s instead of transferring those funds to another retirement account. These cash outs incur penalties and taxes, which ultimately lead to a $70 billion annual loss in savings. The highest cash out rate occurs with workers with the smallest account balances, $5,000 or less. “Retirement plan cash out leakage at the time of a job change is harmful to workers’ retirement,” wrote the senators. “With an estimated 14 million workers with 401(k) plans changing jobs each year, reducing leakage and consolidating low-dollar accounts through greater use of auto portability will set millions of working Americans on a better path to a secure retirement.” The auto portability option suggested by the senators could result in more than two million employees opting to keep their savings in retirement accounts instead of “cashing out” and incurring losses that carry long term consequences. U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Cotton (R-AK), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Todd Young (R-IN) also joined this effort, which is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Financial Services Roundtable, American Benefits Council, American Retirement Association, Investment Company Institute, and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. View the full text of the letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Trump Administration Six Month Mark WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the progress the Trump Administration has made during its first six months: “So far, President Trump is doing exactly what he told the American people he was going to do. Job one is to get the economy going again. Georgians and Americans elected him as President of the United States because he is an outsider to the Washington system. As an outsider, he can break the gridlock in Washington and begin to get real results. His goal was clear: Make America Great Again, and the results we have seen so far are nothing short of encouraging. “After eight years of failed policies and weak leadership abroad, there is still much work to do to reengage with the rest of the world. Looking back over the last six months, it’s easy to see our economy is in the early stages of a potential turnaround. “President Trump has approached his new role with a business-like mindset and as a result, he’s tackling issues at a business-pace—not a Washington-pace. Since he was sworn in, Associate Justice Neil Gorsuch has been confirmed, we’ve witnessed the largest regulatory reform since Reagan, coal jobs have been saved, 800,000 jobs have been created, accountability has been restored at the VA, illegal border crossings are down 53 percent, ISIS is on the run, NATO member contributions are on the rise, and harmful trade negotiations have been voided. Because of President Trump’s leadership we are now on a solid path back to greatness and I look forward to helping President Trump continue to deliver results.” Six Months Of Accomplishments: Filling Supreme Court Vacancy: Associate Justice Gorsuch has been confirmed and filled the Supreme Court vacancy. Rolling Back Regulations: Through Executive and Legislative action, we’ve seen the largest regulatory rollback since Ronald Reagan and there’s much more to come. Releasing America’s Energy Potential: Keystone XL is approved and coal jobs have been saved. Creating Opportunity: Over 800,000 jobs have been added and consumer confidence is at a 13-year high. Serving Our Veterans: Accountability is being restored at the VA and over 500 negligent employees have been fired. Protecting The Homeland: Illegal border crossings are down 53% and 10,000 ICE officers have been hired. Strengthening Our Alliances: NATO member contributions are on the rise. Standing Up To Terrorism: Mosul has been freed, Bashar al-Assad has been reprimanded for using chemical weapons, we’ve reengaged our allies through a multinational approach, and the need for a strategy in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria is being tackled head-on. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senator John McCain WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on Senator John McCain: “John McCain is a friend, a mentor, and a true patriot. If anyone can tackle a challenge like this, it's him. Bonnie and I extend our heartfelt prayers to John, Cindy, and the entire McCain family. We also pray for John's doctors as they give him the best care available." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.19.2017	07.19.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Health Care & Tax Reform On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria about moving forward on President Trump’s agenda to fix the health care system and overhaul the tax code. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Prioritizing National Interest: “My observation after two years, coming from the business world, is that self-interests sometimes trump the national interest. I see that in every issue we take up in Washington.” Cleaning Up Obamacare Mess: “You know what is dysfunctional, is that there was a Democrat super majority in 2009 and 2010 that crammed Obamacare down our throats and now millions of people are hurting. If we could start over and not have to fix this mess, it would be a lot easier.” Doing Nothing Is Not An Option: “Right now, Obamacare lives and you see more and more people losing insurance every day. This thing is collapsing under its own weight. The reality is Congress has to do something, sooner rather than later.” Delivering A Solution: “Right now, people are afraid of losing access. Premiums have skyrocketed and people are losing their insurance because they can't afford it. We put Medicaid on a long-term sustainable path. And we protect preexisting conditions. That’s what we wanted to do and that’s what this Senate bill actually does.” Looking Forward: “We’re not going to get to tax reform before September 30th. We’ve got to fund the government first.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.19.2017	07.19.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Meeting With FBI Nominee Christopher Wray WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on his meeting with Christopher Wray, nominee for FBI Director: “President Trump did an excellent job selecting a fellow Georgian, Christopher Wray, for this important position. There’s no question, his experience and qualifications make him an ideal candidate for Director of the FBI. Americans need someone they can trust to lead our nation’s highest law enforcement agency. Now, the Senate needs to come together and act quickly to move Mr. Wray through the confirmation process so he can take his new post at the FBI.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.14.2017	07.14.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Health Care & Economic Optimism On Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Kevin Cirilli on Bloomberg TV about fixing the broken health care system and jumpstarting the economy. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Delivering A Solution: “I think we’re getting to a point now where we’re very close. I remain hopeful and I really think we’ve got something here we can work with.” Ending The Obamacare Crisis: “Perfection is difficult to achieve, and that's why we have been working so hard. But let’s remember we have a crisis on our hands. Obamacare has been collapsing over the last seven years.” Increasing Access: “We want to repeal as much as we can repeal. What we've got to do is fix the problem that is out there. We've got to make sure that people continue to get access or will get increased access.” Renewing Optimism: “Chair Yellen acknowledged that the economy wants to turn. Consumer confidence is up and unemployment is down below five percent.” Encouraging Capital Investments: “If you don't do something with Dodd-Frank to free capital up in the banking system, and you don't give confidence to the business community so they invest again, you could be in a real capital crisis in the next year or two.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Debt And Economic Growth With Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, asked Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen about the U.S economic recovery since the recession and the risks poised on the global economy by the normalization of U.S interest rates. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Global Economic Risks from the Normalization of U.S. Interest Rates Senator Perdue: “Are you concerned about the emerging market debt with so much of that denominated in dollars today?” Chair Yellen: “Well, it is a risk. A significant amount of that is in China but that’s not the only country where there is substantial corporate dollar denominated debts and certainly that is a risk we’ve considered that affects the global economy.” Economy Continues to Recover Senator Perdue: “This is a long recovery we’re in. It’s been very weak, but it’s been very long—almost nine years, and the typical recovery in U.S. history is about 58 months, or about five years. With consumer confidence right now being at a 13 year high, what are your concerns relative to the strength of this market and the fiscal policy that’s coming out of Washington over the last couple years and even this year relative to a potential correction in this long-standing recovery, the weak recovery? Does the economy have energy to pop and recover from this extended period of weak economic growth?” Chair Yellen: “I do have a reasonable level of confidence that the expansion can continue, and we’re trying to put in place a monetary policy that will facilitate that.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Comment On Three Georgia Federal Judge Nominees Self nominated to Middle district, Ray and Brown nominated to Northern district WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statements regarding President Trump’s announcement of his intent to nominate three Georgians to fill vacant federal judicial seats in Georgia’s Middle and Northern districts. President Trump intends to nominate Tilman E. “Tripp” Self, III, of Macon, GA, to serve in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia. Self has served as the 83rd Judge on the Georgia Court of Appeals since January 1, 2017. For the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Trump intends to nominate William M. “Billy” Ray, II, of Grayson, GA, and Michael L. Brown, of Atlanta, GA. Ray has served as the 76th Judge of the Court of Appeals of Georgia since 2012. Brown is a former assistant U.S. attorney in both Georgia and Florida and co-leads the government and internal investigations team as a practicing attorney with Alston & Bird LLP. “The president has nominated three outstanding Georgians, and I look forward to working with them as they go through the confirmation process in the Senate,” said Senator Isakson. “President Trump nominated an impressive and qualified group of individuals to fill the vacant federal judgeships in the Middle and Northern Districts of Georgia. I look forward to meeting with Mike Brown, William Ray and Tripp Self as they go through the Senate confirmation process,” said Senator Perdue. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.12.2017	07.12.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses August Recess & President Trump’s Priorities On Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Shannon Bream on Fox News Channel’s America’s Newsroom about postponing the scheduled August state work period to make continued progress on President Trump’s priorities. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Postponing State Work Period: “I applaud the Leader’s decision to delay this. We had 10 senators actually put a letter together to encourage our caucus to stay in, and that’s what we are doing.” Confirming President’s Nominees: “There are over 130 nominations and because of Democratic obstructionism here, we can’t get them confirmed. We’ve got to get that done.” Acting On Priorities: “We’ve got the debt ceiling to deal with. We’ve got the fiscal year 2018 budget, the reconciliation that goes with that, and 12 appropriations bills—and we’ve got to do that by September 30th. We only have 40 working days, between now and September 30th, and then—if we get all of that done—we’ve got the tax package in front of us.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.12.2017	07.12.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Postponing August Recess On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria about postponing the scheduled August state work period, ending the Obamacare crisis, and tackling our country’s debt crisis. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Focus On The People’s Priorities: “I think Don Jr. was very open and honest. We've got three investigations under way right now. One in the House, one here in the Senate and then independent investigators looking into all of this...I'm focused on getting back to the things that we're trying to focus on here, in order to get the people's work done.” Outsiders Producing Results: “I am an outsider myself. That’s exactly how I got elected and that’s how President Trump got elected…What I am looking at is a President who is working at a business pace not a bureaucratic pace. He is focused on why the people elected him. Job one is to get the economy going again and let me tell you, aside from the headlines, the work going on in the White House is producing results.” Working Through August: “Right now we've got to focus on getting the people's work done…We’re focused on this health care issue right now but we've got to move on. We've got so many things that we've got to do and that’s the reason we wrote the letter to Senate leadership.” Ending The Obamacare Crisis: “This is an effort to try to find an 80 percent acceptable solution, just like you do in the business world every day. Nobody gets a 100 percent perfect solution in a business deal. What we're trying to do here is find something that is certainly better than Obamacare.” Tackling The Debt Crisis: “We’re down a rabbit hole. Maria talks about the debt all the time and this is something we've got to start facing. The long-term dangers of that are really republic-threatening.” Moving Forward: “The economy wants to turn. Consumer confidence is at a 13-year high. I have studied that for a long time and I have to tell you it’s fragile, because household debt is now back up to just where it was before 2009. This is a fragile potential turnaround, and we need to see the work in Congress move.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Group of Senators Comment On August Recess Delay “It is time to get results for the American people” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) comment on Majority Leader McConnell’s decision to cancel the first two weeks of the Senate’s scheduled August state work period: “We are glad leadership took our concerns into consideration. It is time to get results for the American people.” On June 30, the Senators sent a letter to Leader McConnell outlining their request to work through the August recess period. They will continue working to make progress on fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.11.2017	07.11.17 ICYMI: CBS News Highlights Senator David Perdue’s Push For Working Through August Recess WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Nancy Cordes on CBS News’ This Morning about his effort to cancel or truncate the Senate’s scheduled August state work period if meaningful progress has not been made on the following five priorities: fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Acting On Priorities: “I can tell you what, if you did a vote out there in the real world, they would vote for us to stay here and get their work done.” Breaking Through Gridlock: “The gridlock up here is not understood by people back home, nor is it going to be tolerated.” On June 30, Senator Perdue was joined by nine other senators in sending a letter sent to Leader McConnell outlining their request to work through the August recess period. Senator Perdue also wrote an op-ed on the need to cancel or truncate August recess in the Daily Signal. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.10.2017	07.10.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue: Health Insurance Rate Increase Further Evidence Obamacare Failing, Replacement Needed WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) again highlighted the high costs facing Georgians under Obamacare, citing additional evidence that a replacement is urgently needed to give Americans affordable, accessible health care choices. Filings released by the Georgia Department of Insurance last week show that insurance carriers are seeking to increase rates for 2018, in some cases by more than 40 percent. These increases would come on top of an average 106 percent premium increase for Georgia since 2013, the last year before Obamacare took effect, according to data from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “Georgians are already hurting from the effects of Obamacare, and this news is further proof that this law is failing Georgians and all Americans who simply want an affordable health care system that meets their needs,” said Senator Isakson. “I am eager to get to work on a system that would cover preexisting conditions, provide relief from costly mandates and regulations, and prioritize returning the oversight of individual markets to the states, which can then tailor insurance programs to best benefit their unique populations. It’s past time to bring back private competition, state regulation and authority and see to it that health care in America is accessible and affordable.” “In Georgia, 96 out of 159 counties only have one insurance option in the Obamacare exchange and that’s Blue Cross,” said Senator Perdue. “This rate hike means 60 percent of all Georgians who have Obamacare insurance are likely to see their health care costs increase dramatically next year. This is unmanageable. I have said it all along. Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. This rate hike is further evidence that free-market solutions are needed now to increase competition, drive down costs, and increase choice in the individual market.” The report, published on July 7, 2017, also confirms that even more carriers may exit the Obamacare exchange marketplace after 2018. Other insurance carriers have indicated they may exit in 2018 and that could affect thousands more Georgians. Already in 96 out of 159 counties in Georgia, only one option remains for health insurance coverage on the Obamacare exchange, leaving citizens in rural areas without options for the coverage that they need. Senators Isakson and Perdue remain concerned that unless Congress acts to fix this failing law, thousands of Georgians will be caught in Obamacare exchanges next year with rising premiums and few or no options. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.10.2017	07.10.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Appointment Of Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald As CDC Director WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the appointment of Georgia Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald to serve as director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): “Dr. Fitzgerald has years of experience leading Georgia’s Department of Public Health and decades of experience in the medical field. She will do a great job leading the CDC. We’ve seen the CDC play a critical role in combating viruses like Ebola and Zika, and it will continue to be on the frontlines protecting our country and people around the world. There is no question that Dr. Fitzgerald understands this responsibility and is prepared for the challenges ahead. I congratulate Dr. Fitzgerald on her appointment as Director and I am certain that under her leadership the CDC will continue to be the preeminent authority on combating deadly diseases across the globe.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.07.2017	07.07.17 Senator David Perdue Recognized By U.S. Marine Corps At Historic Sunset Parade WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was honored by the United States Marine Corps at a special Sunset Parade. Since September of 1956, the Marine Corps marching and musical units have been paying tribute to those whose "uncommon valor was a common virtue" by holding Sunset Parades in the shadow of the 32-foot high figures of the United States Marine Corps War Memorial in Washington, D.C. Click here or on the photo below to view the whole album. (From L-R: Mrs. LaDonna Crenshaw, Major General Craig Crenshaw, Mrs. Suzanne Dana, Lieutenant General Michael Dana, Mrs. Bonnie Perdue, and Senator David Perdue) “It was an incredible honor to be recognized by our United States Marine Corps in this 51-year-old military tradition,” said Senator Perdue. “Having grown up in a military town in Georgia, I have a profound respect for the perseverance and sacrifice of our servicewomen and men. America’s best and brightest serve in uniform around the world, defending our freedoms and ensuring our safety every single day. Thank you again to Lieutenant General Michael Dana and Major General Craig Crenshaw for inviting me to be part of this incredible experience and for your unwavering dedication and leadership to not only the Marine Corps but also our country.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.05.2017	07.05.17 Senator David Perdue Joins Efforts To Grow U.S. Navy Fleet “A robust naval fleet is critical to maintaining global security” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined thirteen other senators, led by Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), in making it the policy of the United States to meet the U.S. Navy’s requirement of 355 ships, needed to respond to military and humanitarian missions around the world. This guidance was included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 passed by the Senate Armed Services Committee last week. “Today we have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the smallest and oldest Air Force ever,” said Senator Perdue. “At the same time, we are seeing the greatest number of emerging threats around the world. A robust naval fleet is critical to maintaining global security and access to critical waterways and shipping lanes. Our current battle fleet of only 276 ships is strained to meet combatant commander requirements to respond to threats, support our allies, and deter aggression worldwide. At the price tag of $26 billion annually over the next 30-years, Congress must identify a way to responsibly fund our priorities. This bill helps clear the way under President Trump’s leadership to find a way to finance the 355-ship Navy that the President has called for.” Background: The Securing the Homeland by Increasing our Power on the Seas (SHIPS) Act establishes the policy that the 355-ship Navy be comprised of an optimal mix of platforms, with funding levels subject to annual appropriations. The legislation reflects the Navy’s recent force-structure assessment indicating it needs 355 ships to meet the demands on its forces. Currently, there are only 276 ships in the battle fleet. The 2016 Navy Force Structure Assessment determined that to fully resource platform-specific demands with very little risk in any theater while supporting enduring missions, ongoing operations and setting the theater for prompt warfighting response, the Navy would require a 653-ship force. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
07.03.2017	07.03.17 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Shares Independence Day Message WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ahead of Independence Day, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the below video message on America’s 241st birthday: Click here to watch the video or on the photo below. Transcript: 241 years ago, democracy became the law of the land in the United States of America. Our founding mothers and fathers took a stand, and against all odds, they prevailed in the fight for our independence. They are true patriots and heroes. It’s because of their courage that we today have a representative democracy and a country founded on these principles of economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. As we remember those who paved the way, let’s not forget those who continue the fight today. This Independence Day, I’m visiting our soldiers overseas to thank them for their selfless sacrifice and unwavering resolve and to assure them that they have the full support of everybody back home. America is still a land of liberty and opportunity because of their service. Thank you to all those past and present who have made great sacrifices to defend our country. We are a nation indebted to you. May God bless our women and men in uniform, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.30.2017	06.30.17 Group Of Senators Call For Cancellation Of August Recess “We are united in our belief that we must work with a sense of urgency to deliver conservative solutions for pressing legislative issues on behalf of the American people.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) was joined by U.S. Senators Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Thom Tillis (R-NC), in asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to cancel the Senate’s scheduled August state work period if meaningful progress has not been made on the following five priorities: fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent Leader McConnell on Friday, June 30, 2017, which included a countdown of the remaining scheduled work days until the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year,” said the senators in the letter. “This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work.” “Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort,” concluded the senators. View the full text of the letter here and below. Dear Leader McConnell: We are united in our belief that we must work with a sense of urgency to deliver conservative solutions for pressing legislative issues on behalf of the American people. Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year. This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work. There are five imperatives which must be accomplished this year. We must complete the first phase of Obamacare repeal and replace. Next, we have to pass a budget that serves as a reconciliation vehicle for reforming our outdated tax code. Before September 30th, we must agree on an appropriation that responsibly funds the government. Also, we must deal with our debt limit before that approximate date. If we successfully navigate those priorities, we can finally get to our once in a generation opportunity on tax reform. Growing the economy, repairing our infrastructure, and rebuilding our military are all dependent on accomplishing the tasks before us. Each of these issues is challenging in its own right. For example, the passage of a budget and all twelve appropriations bills before September 30th is a rarity, occurring only 4 times in the last 43 years. However, the stakes are much higher this year. We simply cannot afford to lose any additional time in resolving these issues when tax reform is hanging in the balance. Robust change to our tax code is our single most important economic growth tool, and there is already growing anticipation for us to act. Failure to deliver could have devastating economic consequences. We appreciate your leadership, both in advancing our agenda and by moving a package of bills this year to roll back regulations. This effort has already helped deliver much needed relief and advance economic growth. Further, we have been encouraged by your work to date to help us stay on track. However, there is much to be done. Please be assured that our request is fully backed by our commitment to thoughtfully and diligently work through these issues. We simply recognize that making America great again requires a certain time commitment. Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort. Sincerely, ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Senator David Perdue Secures Numerous Priorities In Annual Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced the inclusion of nearly 30 of his provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. The NDAA will now go to the Senate floor for further consideration. The FY18 NDAA authorizes a base defense budget of $632 billion. In combination with the Trump Administration’s request of $8 billion for other defense priorities, the NDAA supports a total defense budget of $640 billion in funding for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. “One of six reasons why 13 colonies came together in the first place was to provide for the national defense,” said Senator Perdue. “Over the last ten years the world has become more dangerous, and the Senate Armed Services Committee has taken action to ensure our military has the resources it needs. Given my seat at the table for the Defense Authorization bill, we were able to fight for priorities important to our national security and Georgia’s military community including easing the burden on military families and strengthening our state’s military bases. Responsibly funding our national defense remains a top priority and is necessary to protect our homeland and advance U.S. interests around the world.” Senator Perdue secured nearly 30 provisions in this year’s NDAA addressing a range of issues from the readiness crisis to acquisition reform and reinvesting capabilities in our warfighters. Here are some highlights: Protect JSTARS Readiness: Prohibits the retirement of the JSTARS fleet until the recapitalized fleet reaches full operational capability (FOC). This provision also requires a briefing from the Air Force on addressing maintenance backlogs in the legacy fleet, as well as ensuring a sufficient maintenance plan. Additionally, the bill provides funding for the continued maintenance of the legacy fleet. Hold Iran Accountable: Requires additional reporting on technology transfers to and from Iran, including nuclear and ballistic missile technology. This also requires reporting on Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ (IRGC) use of civilian transportation infrastructure and assets for military purposes. Iran has been using civilian infrastructure to support Bashar al-Assad in Syria. This provision requires additional reporting on military cooperation between Iran and Syria, North Korea, Cuba, Venezuela, Russia, Pakistan, Sudan, and other countries as identified by the Secretary of Defense. Expedite “Clean” DOD Audit: Improves DOD accountability and urges swift compliance with the CFO Act of 1990 which requires the DOD to obtain a “clean” audit opinion. This provision also directs the Defense Business Board to study audit progress to date and propose incentives and actionable recommendations for improving the DOD’s standing. The DOD remains the only federal agency that has yet to comply with the law. Columbia Class SSBN: Kings Bay is home to the Atlantic fleet of the nuclear submarines, the most survivable leg of our nation’s nuclear triad. This year’s bill keeps the Ohio Class replacement plan for the new fleet of nuclear submarines on track to ensure there will not be a capability gap. Protects A-10s: Funds the A-10 Thunderbolt II to stay online, and funds a necessary wing overhaul, which was on the Air Force unfunded requirements list. Encourage Direct Hire Authority: Requests a status update and encourages swift implementation of DOD’s authorized use of direct hire authorities to resolve critical backlogs for civilians who work in DOD depots, ranges, and labs. As of today, the DOD has yet to implement the policy changes, leading to continued readiness issues. Support Women In STEM: Secures funds to support the creation of a center of excellence for promoting minority women in STEM at an Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), in efforts to increase the participation of all American citizens in defense and related national security efforts. Cyber-Training Initiatives: In 2013, the Secretary of Defense directed the standup of the Cyber Missions Forces and asked the Services to create a joint, federated cyber training program that would avoid duplication and build upon the strengths of each service. This language requests the issue be resolved in the next budget planning cycle and requests an update for the committee. Encourage Cross-Service Depot Maintenance: Expresses concern about this backlog and directs the Secretary of Defense to assess feasibility of using cross-service depot maintenance within the organic industrial base to avoid future backlogs. The Navy has a well-documented fighter pilot readiness problem due in large part to depot maintenance backlogs. Space-Based Sensor: Directs the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) to develop a space-based sensor architecture using sound acquisition practices for a highly reliable and cost-effective persistent space-based sensor architecture capable of supporting the ballistic missile defense system. This is in response to the growing threat from North Korea and Iran to protect the homeland. Harness Commercial Off-The-Shelf Technology: Encourages DOD to use commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) technology to save money from unnecessary R&D and help the DOD acquire new equipment and systems faster. M4 Rail: Although the Army has made over 90 upgrades to the M4 carbine rifle, it still uses a legacy rail system that is inferior to rails currently in use by other parts of the forces. This provision encourages the Army to examine using a free-float rail system, which would lead to greater accuracy for the warfighter compared to the current legacy rail. DLA Reverse Engineering: Ensures that DOD protects patented intellectual property that is shared by small businesses working with the Department. IUID Report: Directs DOD to report to Congress on the progress for complying with the Item Unique Identification (IUID) policy that was released in 2003. IUID helps better track DOD items and provides logistics and maintenance efficiencies. Holistic Equipment Strategy: Instructs DOD to take a holistic approach to the acquisition strategy for service members’ individual equipment. This is in an effort to help lighten the load for warfighters and encourage the latest commercially available materials to be integrated. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.28.2017	06.28.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Praise Rollback Of Government Takeover Of Waterways Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw ‘Waters of the United States’ rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) praised Tuesday’s announcement by the Trump administration that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will take action to begin rolling back an ill-conceived regulation from the Obama administration known as “Waters of the United States.” “This is great news for Georgia’s farmers and our entire agriculture industry who are eager to see the rights returned to our states and local communities to oversee our land and waterways,” said Senator Isakson. “Federal government bureaucrats should not have the ability to control our streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches, and I applaud the administration for the steps they are taking to dismantle this harmful, overreaching rule.” “This is a huge victory for our farmers, businesses, ranchers, and landowners,” said Senator Perdue. “We all finally have a President who is taking our concerns seriously. This Obama-era rule was a blatant overreach from the federal government. Immediately after the rule was announced, Georgians pleaded with the government to not overregulate their land. I worked directly with our Georgia farmers to raise the issue with the federal government. This is just one example of how President Trump and a Republican-led Congress are reversing the onerous regulations that have sucked the life out of our free-enterprise system.” The EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced this action on Tuesday, and it will be implemented in accordance with Supreme Court decisions, agency guidance and longstanding practice. The previous administration’s overreaching rule, Senators Isakson and Perdue argued, allowed the federal government to regulate nearly all private and state waters in the United States, including thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches. In February, President Trump signed an order to require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency to review and reconsider the “Waters of the United States” rule. Tuesday’s action would, when finalized, provide certainty in the interim, pending a second rulemaking in which the agencies will engage in a substantive re-evaluation of the definition of “Waters of the United States.” Georgia has previously taken steps to challenge the ruling in federal court. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in favor of Georgia and 17 states in 2015, granting a nationwide stay of the regulation. In addition, Georgia also challenged the same regulation in a case brought in the U.S. District for the Southern District of Georgia that has been stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Senators Isakson and Perdue previously co-sponsored a resolution that would have overturned the rule, sending a message to the Obama administration that they failed to address concerns raised by farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and small businesses in Georgia and across the country. In 2016, Isakson and Perdue voted with a majority of Congress to overturn the harmful rule, but it was vetoed by President Obama. Senators Isakson and Perdue also co-sponsored the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, S.1140, in 2015. The legislation would have required the secretary of the Army and the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to propose a regulation revising the definition of the term “Waters of the United States,” to define clear limits and to take into account an economic analysis of the rule. ###
06.26.2017	06.26.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Court’s Action To Reinstate President Trump’s National Security Directive WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to reinstate much of President Trump’s executive order to improve national security: “From day one, President Trump and his national security team took swift action to protect Americans by placing a temporary pause on admissions to the U.S. from countries that pose national security concerns. Today, the Supreme Court decided to allow President Trump’s directive to be largely implemented and hear appeals later this year on lower court rulings relating to that directive. The world is a very dangerous place and the President is right to try to protect Americans.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.26.2017	06.26.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On CBO Score Of Senate Health Care Discussion Draft WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score for the Senate health care discussion draft: “When the CBO scored Obamacare in 2010, it overshot its projection of how many people would gain insurance by more than 12 million people. It’s clear the CBO cannot predict the purchasing patterns for millions of Americans. Just like the House CBO score earlier this year, this bureaucratic analysis will do nothing to prevent Obamacare from failing. In Georgia, 96 out of 159 counties have only one insurer within the Obamacare exchanges, leaving hundreds of thousands of Georgians with no competition to choose from for their health insurance. Nationwide, 40 percent of counties will only have one insurer to choose from in the exchange next year. The bottom line is, Obamacare isn’t working and we have to act to put our health care system back on a solid foundation.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate Health Care Discussion Draft WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate health care discussion draft: “After reviewing the initial working draft, I believe it includes many substantial fixes to our broken health care system. Obamacare is the law of the land and collapsing under its own weight, and now we are closer than ever before to delivering real relief to millions of Americans struggling under the current system. Obviously, this will not be the final bill, but I’m hopeful that we can resolve the remaining disagreements and deliver a consensus bill that is a vast improvement over Obamacare." ###
06.21.2017	06.21.17 Senators Perdue, Shaheen, Bennet Act In Support Of Lebanon Lebanon is hosting more refugees per capita than any other nation and on the front lines of the fight against ISIS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Michael Bennet (D-CO) took action in support of Lebanon. On the heels of World Refugee Day, the senators introduced a bipartisan resolution acknowledging the burden Lebanon endures with the Syrian refugee crisis and highlighting the hurdles to long-term stability for Lebanon. The senators signaled the support of the United States for Lebanon’s continued efforts to combat threats from ISIS and curb the influence of the terrorist group Hezbollah. “It is in the best interest of the global community to support a secure and stable Lebanon, which is home to the largest percentage of Christians of any nation in the region,” said Senator Perdue. “Lebanon bears the burden of the current Syrian refugee crisis, a major contributor to the worst refugee crisis the world has ever known, all while carrying out the ongoing fight against ISIS on its own soil. At the same time, Lebanon has been undermined for years by the undue foreign influence of Iran and its terrorist proxy, Hezbollah, that is also threatening U.S. allies in the region including Israel. This dire situation requires bold action from the international community, but progress cannot be achieved without U.S. leadership.” “Lebanon has shouldered an enormous burden as a result of the ongoing conflict in Syria, and our Senate resolution acknowledges the importance of the bilateral relationship between the U.S. and Lebanon,” said Senator Shaheen. “The Lebanese people have demonstrated true humanitarian spirit in welcoming more than one and a half million Syrian refugees while also suffering attacks by ISIS. To help preserve stability in Lebanon and counter the destabilizing influence of Iran’s terrorist proxy Hizballah, the U.S. has and must continue to provide crucial humanitarian support, as well as economic and security assistance, to the government of Lebanon.” “Lebanon has continued to open its doors to refugees despite the tremendous strain it puts on the country’s resources,” said Senator Bennet. “This resolution recognizes that we must work with our partners to address not just the immediate refugee crisis, but also to build stability, counter Hizballah, and support investments in security, services, and infrastructure.” Text of the resolution is available here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.21.2017	06.21.17 Senator David Perdue Meets Georgia Congressional Award Gold Medal Recipients WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) met with The Congressional Award’s Gold Medal recipients, Cristina Dalton, a student at The Westminster Schools, and Rachael Liu, an Archer High School student, and shared the experience on Facebook Live. Also receiving the award is Margaret Silliman, a student at The Westminster Schools. Click here to view the video or on the image below. To download a high-resolution image, click here. Rachael Liu, Senator Perdue, and Cristina Dalton “Congratulations to Cristina, Rachael, and Margaret on earning the Congressional Award Gold Medal,” said Senator Perdue. “This outstanding achievement is a testament to their work ethic and commitment to their communities. They make Georgia proud, and I have no doubt that we will continue to see great things from them in the future.” Background: The National Office of The Congressional Award’s Gold Medal is the highest honor Congress can give to a young civilian and requires the completion of 400 hours of community service and an additional 200 hours of personal development and physical fitness activities. The 2017 Gold Medal class is the largest in history with 373 recipients from 39 states. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.19.2017	06.19.17 Senator David Perdue Guest Co-Hosts CNBC Squawk Box, Discusses President’s Agenda WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today guest co-hosted CNBC’s Squawk Box and led a conversation about fixing health care, jumpstarting the economy, and breaking through Washington gridlock. During the show, Senator Perdue also interviewed Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Current Crisis: “We've got three drivers of our debt over the next ten years. The current baseline budget says we’re going to add $10 trillion to the $20 trillion debt today. Most of that is Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid…We've got to reach out and save those programs, and here we have an opportunity to reengineer Medicaid. That's why this is taking some time.” Borrowed Money: “We have sat here over the last eight years and borrowed 35 percent of what we spent as a federal government. That means every dime we spend on the military, every dime we spend on the VA, and every dime we spend on domestic non-mandatory programs is borrowed money.” Turnarounds Are Messy: “Anytime you go into a turnaround it's messy and you have to invest in order to grow long-term. President Trump said job one is growing the economy. I support that. He's focused on regulatory reform and focused on tax reform, but we're actually in the middle of one of the larger regulatory reforms in my lifetime.” Obamacare Never Going To Work: “Here's the problem: the individual market, the way that Obamacare set it up, was never going to work. It was a mathematical problem…One of the problems that I have as a CEO looking at Obamacare is the solutions are right here before us. The problem is getting it through the political dysfunction in Washington.” Working Through August: “There are a number of us saying we just don't see the number of days left in the fiscal year as being adequate. We have a five-week work period during which we go back to the states and travel, but if we don't get this done, we ought to stay here for a few weeks and focus on getting some of these priorities done.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.19.2017	06.19.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Syria Conflict & Government Funding On Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services and Budget Committees, today spoke with Shannon Bream on Fox News Channel’s America’s Newsroom about recent developments in Syria and upcoming government funding deadlines. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Syria Conflict: Sending A Clear Message: “This is a way that sends a message not only to Russia but also to Bashar al-Assad. No more chemical weapons, and we’re going to defend our people on the ground.” Ousting Assad: “The bigger issue in my mind is once this is settled, and we will get this settled eventually, what do you do with Syria? It's a non-state today. Bashar al-Assad has to go.” Rebuilding Syria: “The economy has got to be rebuilt. We need a global Marshall Plan. There are 65 million refugees walking the face of the Earth today—many of them in that region. We have to find a way to give those people a reason to go home and have a reasonable life once this is over.” Government Funding: Tallying Budget Failures: “This budget process is broken. It’s not worked but four times in 43 years. The Budget Act of 1974 is broken.” Impacting Our Military: “We have had 178 continuing resolutions. Continuing resolutions hamstring our military.” Quickly Approaching Deadline: “We only have 43 working days between now and the end of this fiscal year so we are guaranteed we won't have regular order appropriations. We’ve only averaged two and a half appropriations bills a year in the last 43 years to fund the government. We should appropriate 12 appropriation bills every year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.16.2017	06.16.17 Senator David Perdue Hosts Military Academy Send-off Breakfast ATLANTA, GA – Last Friday, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) held a breakfast in honor of the 20 Georgians nominated and appointed to the United States Service Academies. Click here to view the full album or on the photo below. (From L-R: Juliet Waldman, Abigail Waldman, Senator Perdue, and Michael Waldman. Click here to view other photos of appointees in attendance.) “The very best of our country is serving in our military today, and these 20 young women and men are taking it to the next level,” said Senator Perdue. “These students have worked very hard to achieve appointments to our prestigious military academies. This is no small feat. Over the years, they have dedicated themselves to their schools, communities, and our country. These young women and men have put in countless hours studying, volunteering, and fine tuning their skills, which got them to this place today. I join all of Georgia in applauding each of our appointees on their acceptance to our academies and thank them for their service to our country.” U.S. Air Force Academy Alexis Shirley (Watkinsville) Brooke Schumacher (Tyrone) William Johnson (Warrenton) Sean McKendree (Norcross) Matthew Jones (Richmond Hill) U.S. Naval Academy Christopher Kalafut (Acworth) Joe Tondera (Albany) Shaun Herock (Cumming) Avery Rodts (Atlanta) Benjamin Johnson (Dunwoody) Harrison Ray (Brookhaven) Christopher Cassidy (Fayetteville) Daniel Lovell (Rome) U.S. Military Academy Branton Fletcher (Buford) Abigail Waldman (Acworth) Christopher Weaver (Atlanta) Alexander Field (Johns Creek) William Caldwell (Milledgeville) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Daniel Mansfield (Columbus) Derek Ferguson (Newnan) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses U.S. Ability To Compete With Naval Buildup In Asia-Pacific WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked U.S. Navy Admiral John M. Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations about the shortage of naval assets available to fulfill required missions and to compete with the international buildup in the Asia-Pacific region. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Washington’s Broken Budget Process Has Defrauded Our Military Senator Perdue: “We have twenty five working days in the United States Senate between now and the end of this fiscal year. Twenty five. There is no chance we are going to fund this federal government the way that budget law of 1974 prescribes that will allow us to debate and fully fund our military. This has got to stop…Just know there are people working up here to try and change that. This is such an institutional dysfunction and it puts our men and women at risk. It puts the future of this country at risk because it endangers it. We have talked nothing but dollars and cents today. If you had the money it wouldn’t be a problem—we’ve got the innovation, the technology, the capital—it doesn’t matter. We could defend our country. We’re not giving you the money you need.” U.S. Ability to Compete with Naval Buildup in Asia-Pacific Senator Perdue: “Admiral, there are about 400 foreign submarines total in the world, is that directionally correct?” Admiral Richardson: “That sounds about right, yes sir.” Senator Perdue: “Admiral (Harry) Harris says about 230 of those are in the Asia-Pacific region, including in the Indian ocean as well. How many submarines do we have allocated to the Pacific right now? Attack submarines, not the boomers?” Admiral Richardson: “In the neighborhood of 30.” Senator Perdue: “A little less than 30. Admiral Harris confirmed that. And our plan in the 2020’s, say, in the next 10-15 years: we have 52 attack submarines in our inventory today. Our plan in the Navy is taking that down to 42. So we basically have 30 attack submarines trying to keep up with over 200 submarines in that area. And 160 of those 230 are China, Russia, and North Korea. Sir, how are we going to mitigate that? And give us some confidence about how those 30 boats are going to be able to protect us in the Asia-Pacific.” Admiral Richardson: “We are going to mitigate that in every way we can. That will be a combo of some of the unmanned undersea vehicles that we talked about earlier. That’ll help. We’re looking to increase production of submarines. So the addition of the submarine in [FY] 21 was one step in that direction. We’re looking to see what the industrial base can bear with respect to taking that even higher. We’re looking at life extensions with the current submarines so that will help us through that trough. But I will tell you we will be below the requirement.” Transition to Ohio Class Ballistic Missile Submarine Replacement Senator Perdue: “That’s good news but we’re trying to replace 14 Ohio Class with 12 Columbia Class. What period of time is that projected over? And is that still in your current thinking, in the current plan?” Admiral Richardson: “Yes sir and there is good engineering logic behind that by virtue of putting a life-of-the ship core into each one of those SSBNs. We eliminate the need for a long mid-life refueling overhaul and so we get more operational availability of that submarine that allows us to cover down on the same mission in the strategic triad with 12 submarines.” Senator Perdue: “By the time we get to commissioning those 12 Columbia Class, how far past the useful life will the Ohio Class submarines be?” Admiral Richardson: “Oh, there is zero margin in that plan. It is end-to-end. We have stretched the Ohio Class out to longer than any other class of submarine we have built so there is no more margin for that transition. In fact, we go down to ten SSBNs for a while in that transition period really kind of banking on reliability of the submarines to get us through that.” View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the U.S. Navy’s fiscal year 2018 budget here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate Approval Of Sanctions Against Iran & Russia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the Senate’s bipartisan approval of strengthening U.S. sanctions against Iran and Russia: “Nuclear deal or not, Iran is still the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. This has got to stop. A bad nuclear deal did nothing to stop the expansion of Iran’s ballistic missile program, aggression, or support for terrorism. After the Obama Administration’s eight years of ignoring bad actors around the world, the Senate acted decisively today to further clamp down on Iran’s destabilizing behavior and curb Russia’s regional aggression. These new sanctions send a strong warning to both Iran and Russia that the U.S. will hold them accountable for their actions.” Background: The Countering Iran’s Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals involved with Iran’s ballistic missile program and those who transact with them. It also applies terrorism sanctions to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and codifies sanctions on individuals who are currently sanctioned due to Iranian support for terrorism. It will strengthen and expand current U.S. sanctions against the government of Russia in response to Russia’s violation of the territorial integrity of the Ukraine and Crimea, its cyber-attacks on critical U.S. infrastructure, and its continuing aggression in Syria. Senator Perdue has been working for two years to hold Iran accountable for its belligerent actions and nefarious behavior. To do so, he has: Led a letter, with 12 other senators, to Secretary Tillerson, Secretary Mnuchin and Attorney General Sessions requesting a report on the Obama Administration’s prisoner swap with Iran. Supported President Trump’s sanctions against Iran. Introduced legislation to prohibit cash payments to state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran. Pursued action on the Department of the Treasury’s decision to approve licenses for the sale of American aircraft to an Iranian airline with ties to terrorism. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.14.2017	06.14.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Senate Action On Russia Sanctions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Senate’s action to include an amendment on Russia sanctions into the Countering Iran’s Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017: “Today, we increased economic pressure on Russia to stop it’s aggression in the region and stop interfering with U.S. interests around the world. Russia is currently violating the territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine, has conducted cyberattacks on critical U.S. infrastructure, and continues to wage a propaganda war worldwide. These sanctions will send a strong message to Russia that their actions have consequences.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.14.2017	06.14.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Congressional Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the shooting in Alexandria, Virginia at the practice for a charity baseball game: “It is not said enough. Thank you to our U.S. Capitol Police officers who work around the clock to protect and serve our country. When tragedy broke out today, two Capitol Police officers engaged and took down the shooter. One of the police officers—after being shot—stopped the shooter and helped others before even attending to his own wounds. This is true heroism. Steve Scalise is a personal friend, and Bonnie and I join the country in praying for him, our Capitol Police officers, and all of the individuals who were injured in this horrific shooting.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.13.2017	06.13.17 Senator David Perdue Echoes Secretary Mnuchin’s Call For Regulatory Changes “I’m really concerned with our competitive position relative to the rest of the world.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, joined BloombergTV to discuss President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget proposal and the need for deregulation to encourage economic growth. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Fixing The Budget Process: “In one of my questions [to Secretary Mnuchin] I asked, ‘If you were king for a day, would you re-do Dodd-Frank?’ He said, ‘yes but before that I did that, I would re-do the budget process.’ We’ve been screaming for years that this budget process is broken, particularly in the past year and a half. We’ve been working to change that.” Dismantling Dodd-Frank: “The White House is working on some executive orders and regulatory changes inside the Department of Treasury that would reverse some of the more onerous capital formation rules inside Dodd-Frank, which I think would benefit capital flow, small banks, and regional banks.” Creating Jobs: “This economic miracle over the last 70 years is really caused by innovation, capital formation, and the rule of law. In the last eight years, we have punitively shut down capital formation where jobs are created by the way, and that is small banks. I think the Trump Administration is on that, and I think we’ll see things that relieve the pressure and let capital flow again in the place where jobs are created.” Empowering Main Street: “The Senate must address repealing Dodd-Frank here. The protection against the abuses that we saw in 2008 and 2009 are there. The problem I have is the overreaching, punitive nature of some of the regulations in Dodd-Frank and how that is shutting down capital formation and small banks.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.09.2017	06.09.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Comey & President Trump's Agenda on Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Bill Hemmer on Fox News Channel’s America’s Newsroom about yesterday’s Senate Intelligence Committee hearing and the progress on President Trump’s agenda. Click here to watch or click on the image below. President Trump Vindicated: “My take on the testimony yesterday, as I objectively look at it, I think the President was totally vindicated. Comey himself said three times the President wasn't under investigation and the President had not asked him and did not ask him to stop the Russia investigation. I think this totally vindicates the President and shows how the national and Washington media hyped this into something that it wasn't.” Fixing The Immediate Crises: “We've been focusing on healthcare day-to-day. That's the immediate crisis. We're trying to get that bill done in the Senate. Remember, we have about 47 days left until the end of this fiscal year. We have a debt ceiling limit coming up on us shortly. More importantly we have this tax package that hopefully will give some relief and make us more competitive with the rest of the world.” Pressure On Congress: “President Trump is doing what he said he was going to do, and that is roll back regulations, adjust our tax situation, and make us more competitive with the rest of the world. People are responding to that...In Congress, what that does is put pressure on us and should bring a sense of urgency to get these things done now.” Staying In Washington To Work: “I'm one of the few in the Senate saying we should not leave Washington and go back to our home states in August during that five-week state work period. We should stay in Washington and get this tax package done. That's what we would do in the business world.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.09.2017	06.09.17 Senator David Perdue Addresses 2017 Faith And Freedom Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today addressed the future of the United States at the Faith & Freedom Coalition’s “Road To Majority” Conference. Click here to watch the speech or click on the image below. Correcting Failed Policies: “This battle today is not about Donald Trump’s tweets. This battle is about the abject failure of liberal Democrat policies.” Keeping Promises: “He said was going to nominate someone for the Supreme Court… and we in the Senate confirmed Neil Gorsuch… He said he was going to reverse crushing regulations… He and the Senate have embarked on the boldest rollback of onerous regulations since Ronald Reagan was President… He said America was going to lead again in the world… He actually visited Israel and made sure the world knew that America would always stand by our strongest ally.” Protecting American Workers: “He said he would protect American workers, and just last week he removed us from that one-sided Paris Accord deal.” Turning Around Country: “After eight years of Barack Obama, this is definitely a turnaround. Turnarounds are messy. Turnarounds take time. Turnarounds break some eggs, but a successful turnaround always starts with a strong leader establishing a change in direction. That’s exactly what President Trump said he would do and that’s exactly what he’s doing.” Growing Confidence: “President Trump is moring at a business pace, not a bureaucratic pace, and people are beginning to pay attention. Small business optimism is at a 10-year high. Consumer confidence is at a 17-year high. Manufacturer optimism is at a 20-year high. President Trump is already delivering results, but there is so much more to do.” Creating Better Future: “This is bigger than Donald Trump. This is bigger than you or me. This is about the future of our country and the security of our children, and our children’s children… Throughout our history, Americans have always stood up to the challenges of our time. This time will be no different.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.07.2017	06.07.17 Senator David Perdue Calls On Congress To Responsibly Fund Government Urges Senate to use next 50 days to work towards a bipartisan solution to fix budget process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke about how Washington’s broken budget and unworkable appropriations process is preventing Congress from responsibly funding our country’s priorities. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights: Totally Broken System: “This is the only enterprise I can find anywhere in the world that funds its operations this way. The problem is we have a system that is absolutely, totally broken. It's a fraud that's being perpetrated on the American people.” Budget Not Law: “There is no way to solve the debt crisis until we solve the budget process. Right now, the budget process doesn't work for this very reason: the budget itself is not a law. It's a resolution.” Debating Borrowed Money: “In the next ten years, according to the current CBO baseline budget, we will borrow over 30% of what we spent as a federal government. Discretionary spending over the next 10 years is going to be less than that. What that means is over the last 8 to 10 years, every dime that we've spent on discretionary spending has by definition been borrowed. There is no other way to look at it.” Debt Is Limiting Opportunities: “I can think of no other call higher than this right now because it risks the things that we need to do: take care of our domestic needs, take care of the people who need the safety net, take care of the legacy programs of Social Security and Medicare, and defend our country. This debt is limiting the opportunities we have and we will not solve that until we address this budget process.” This Can Be Fixed: “This can be fixed. It’s not that difficult. Several of us have been working behind-the-scenes looking at best practices around the world, in other countries, companies, and even states. What we found is nobody else tries to fund their government the way we try to fund the government.” Politically Neutral Solution: “We need a politically neutral platform that brings all expenses into the budget process — all $4 trillion today and that would include discretionary and mandatory spending — that the budget becomes a law, which means that we have to get bipartisan support for the budget, and then lastly, if we don't get the budget done by a certain date and don't fund the government by the end of the fiscal year, severe consequences are borne by the people who have the responsibility to fund the government.” Bipartisanship Needed: “As we go through the next 50 days, I believe we need to look for opportunities on both sides of the aisle to find a bipartisan way to stop this nonsense and get to where we can fund the government in a responsible way each year, not just one year, and get past the past 43 years of total failure in terms of funding the government.” Time To Act Now: “I can find no other time better than now to raise the question on both sides of the aisle. This is not a partisan conversation, both sides are guilty. Let's come up with a politically neutral platform that would allow both sides to talk about tax increases, spending cuts, and all the responsibility we have in Congress of funding the federal government.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.07.2017	06.07.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s FBI Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s nomination of Christopher Wray to lead the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI): “Today President Trump chose former Atlanta federal prosecutor, Christopher Wray, to lead our nation’s highest law enforcement agency. Mr. Wray has proven he is dedicated to upholding our nation’s laws and seeking justice. His work with DOJ on major cases like the Enron scandal and September 11th terrorist attacks make him an ideal candidate for this very important job.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Our Responsibility To Our Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the Senate’s actions to increase accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs: “Our responsibility to our veterans does not end when we welcome them home from the frontlines. In recent years, however, the Department of Veterans Affairs has failed in its commitment to the women and men who served our country. Little accountability within the VA has threatened veterans’ access to the continuous care they need and deserve. Today that changes, thanks to the hard work of Chairman Isakson and the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. We are empowering the VA to take overdue action to increase accountability and prioritize the women and men who sacrificed everything to defend our freedom.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Senator David Perdue: The Budget Is The Number One Concern Here “The threats we have today are more dangerous than any time in my lifetime.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked Secretary Heather Wilson, Secretary of the Air Force, and General David Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air Force about how budget constraints are hurting U.S. Air Force readiness. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Senator Perdue: The budget is the number one concern here. I’m concerned that we’re not funding you at the level to where you can meet the missions you need to meet to protect our country and fulfill the missions that the General laid out earlier. Today we’re in a different world than we were just 10 years ago. China is spending equivalently about $826 billion [when adjusted for purchasing power parity]. We’re spending about $600 billion in that budget. The Air Force gets a little more than 20% of that budget. The threats we have today are more dangerous than any time in my lifetime. I’m concerned we’re putting arbitrary restraints on you guys and we haven’t had a bottom-up look at this since 2011 when Secretary Gates did a five-year analysis. For fiscal year 2016, we’re spending $100 billion less than what he thought we’d need, adjusted for inflation. In 2016, we spent roughly 3% of our GDP on our military. That’s 100 basis points less than our 30-year average. That’s about $200 billion dollars less. We can triangulate around this $200 billion number many different ways. If we don’t remove the Budget Control Act limits, what will that mean to the Air Force this year, and what will that mean to the Air Force over the next five years? Secretary Wilson: If the Budget Control Act limit isn’t fixed—if we have to go to a sequester—that will be a $15 billion cut. Senator Perdue: And what will that mean to end-strength? Readiness? Capacity? Secretary Wilson: That would mean we would go through pretty much what we did when we had a sequester in the 2013 timeframe. We’d have to cut flying hours. Senator Perdue: But we’re only flying about 150 flying hours right now per pilot, correct? Secretary Wilson: Yes. It’s devastating. Senator Perdue: That’s devastating. If that were to happen, can you fulfill the mission that was laid out so articulately by the General that is the mission of the Air Force today? Secretary Wilson: Senator, we’re too small for what the nation expects of us now. Senator Perdue: Thank you, that was the answer I was looking for. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the posture of the U.S. Air Force here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.05.2017	06.05.17 Senator David Perdue Commemorates 50th Anniversary Of Reunification Of Jerusalem “Israel’s victory in the Six Day War was a pivotal moment in the Middle East. Despite facing great odds, Israel triumphed and reunified the city of Jerusalem, opening it to all faiths and strengthening Israel’s commitment to religious freedom. As part of this larger vision of peace in the Middle East, both Egypt and Jordan have continued to uphold their respective peace treaties with Israel. President Trump has shown Israel is a priority, and we will continue to support our longtime friend and ally as they promote peace in the Middle East.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
06.01.2017	06.01.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Paris Climate Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on President Trump’s decision to exit the Paris Climate Agreement: “Today, President Trump chose to make a clean exit from the Paris Agreement. This agreement was a perfect example of Obama-era overreach in which the previous administration entered what should have been considered as a treaty without any congressional approval. The U.S. withdrawal is the next step in fulfilling President Trump's promise to rescind burdensome regulations like the Clean Power Plan that are raising energy costs and stifling our economy, while still maintaining a seat at the table for future international climate talks. When other countries are not willing or able to fully adhere to the terms and meet these targets it ultimately puts American companies and workers at a tremendous disadvantage.” Background: On May 25, 2017, Senator Perdue and 21 other senators sent a letter to President Trump calling for the United States to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. Read the full letter here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.31.2017	05.31.17 Perdue, Woodall Act To Strengthen Secure Mail Initiative Program “DHS and USPS will be able to provide peace of mind and more effective service to customers.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) are taking action to improve the Secure Mail Initiative program, created by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and U.S. Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS). The senators’ Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative (SECURE) Act helps ensure and verify delivery of sensitive immigration-related documents. It provides the recipient of a document with the option to have the U.S. Postal Service hold for pickup or require signature confirmation for delivery. U.S. Representatives Rob Woodall (GA-07) and Jackie Speier (CA-13) took similar action in the House of Representatives. “When sensitive immigration documents such as green cards, travel papers, and employment authorizations wind up in the wrong hands the consequences for families can be dire,” said Senator Perdue. “These situations are easily avoidable with simple safety measures like signature confirmation or in-person pick up options. By making these options available within the Secure Mail Initiative, DHS and USPS will be able to provide peace of mind and more effective service to customers.” “Good public policy can always be traced back to good public service, and that’s certainly true of this bill,” said Representative Woodall. “On many occasions I’ve worked with constituents in my district who have directly experienced the personal and financial damage that occurs when their requested USCIS documents do not arrive. I’m always happy to help constituents recover these vital documents on a case-by-case basis, but this joint effort addresses the underlying problem by offering applicants a mechanism that prevents them from being lost in the first place. I was proud to partner with Rep. Speier in this effort last Congress – where it was passed unanimously by the House – and I welcome the opportunity to work with colleagues in both Chambers and on each side of the aisle to move it to the President’s desk this Congress.” Too often, important documents have been confirmed as delivered to a specific address, but not necessarily received by the addressee. The bill amends the Secure Mail Initiative to help deliver sensitive immigration documents, to ensure that the proper person receives their documents rather than it just being delivered to the right address. View the Strengthening the Department of Homeland Security Secure Mail Initiative (SECURE) Act here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.30.2017	05.30.17 Senator David Perdue Interviews Hiram Student In Senate Page Program On Facebook Live WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) interviewed Hannah Seawell, a junior at South Paulding High School and participant in the U.S. Senate Page Program, on Facebook Live. Click here to view the video or on the photo below. “Hannah is an impressive young leader who represents Georgia well,” said Senator Perdue. “It was great to learn more about her experience as an ambassador for Georgia’s youth in the Senate Page Program. I look forward to hearing more about Hannah’s success in the future and wish her the best.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.26.2017	05.26.17 Senator David Perdue Joins Efforts To Hold Iran Accountable “President Obama’s failed nuclear deal empowered Iran to become more blatantly aggressive.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined thirteen senators, led by Senator Bob Corker (R-TN) in holding Iran accountable for its increasingly aggressive behavior. The senators are taking steps to expand sanctions on Iran for the development of ballistic missiles, support for terrorism, transfers of conventional weapons to or from Iran, and human rights violations. “President Obama’s failed nuclear deal enriched and empowered Iran to become more blatantly aggressive in its destabilizing actions in the Middle East,” said Senator Perdue. “The Iranian regime has taken full advantage of the benefits of the deal, increasing its pursuit of regional supremacy since it was signed. We now have a President who sees the value in remaining firm with the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. Congress is joining President Trump in sending a message that has been absent in Iran for too long: the United States will be taken seriously.” The Countering Iran’s Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals involved with Iran’s ballistic missile program and those who transact with them. It also applies terrorism sanctions to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and codifies sanctions on individuals who are currently sanctioned due to Iranian support for terrorism. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed the Countering Iran’s Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 on May 25, 2017. Senator Perdue has been working for two years to hold Iran accountable for its belligerent actions and nefarious behavior. To do so, he has: Led a letter, with 12 other senators, to Secretary Tillerson, Secretary Mnuchin and Attorney General Sessions requesting a report on the Obama Administration’s prisoner swap with Iran. Supported President Trump’s sanctions against Iran. Introduced legislation to prohibit cash payments to state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran. Pursued action on the Department of the Treasury’s decision to approve licenses for the sale of American aircraft to an Iranian airline with ties to terrorism. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.25.2017	05.25.17 Senator David Perdue: The Debt Threatens Our Republic WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today asked Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney about the impact Congress’ broken budget process has on Washington’s ability to tackle our country’s fiscal catastrophe. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Budget Is All Borrowed Money Senator Perdue: Thank you for addressing the debt. It's the dirtiest four letter word in our English language today. It threatens our republic…In the last 16 years, under one Republican president and one Democratic president, this federal government has grown in constant dollars from $2.4 trillion to $3.9 trillion. I know it's a philosophical debate up here between parties about big government but let’s just look at results…Big government has failed…In the last eight years, as a federal government, we borrowed about 35% of what we spend, and right now, in the 2016 budget that goes through 2025, CBO projected that we would borrow another 30% per year on average over that period of time. Discretionary spending is directionally $1 trillion on a $4 trillion budget and we are spending less than 30 percent on discretionary, the rest of it is mandatory. That means, by definition, every dollar we spend—every dollar we are debating here today—is borrowed money. Headed For Train Wreck Again Senator Perdue: The budget process itself is absolutely broken. It has only worked four times in 43 years...As a matter of fact, over the last 43 years, we have averaged two and half appropriations bills being passed on average during that period of time. We have to pass 12 to fund the federal government. That means we are headed for a train wreck again this year. We will go to September 30th, we will not have the government funded, we will do a continuing resolution, or we will have to have an omnibus where six people get in a room and the rest of us get an up-or-down vote about how we spend a trillion dollars—and that doesn’t even address the $3 trillion of mandatory expenditures. Accounting For All Government Expenditures Senator Perdue: Would you support a budget process eventually that would include all expenditures of the federal government? Director Mulvaney: Senator, yes…I think it’s something we should start discussing. Senator Perdue: Well, as we know, to get at debt we’re not going to do it by working on the $1 trillion. Director Mulvaney: No, you can’t. You can’t balance the budget within the non-defense discretionary portion of the budget at all. You simply cannot do it. Freeing Up Capital To Increase Investment Senator Perdue: Politicians think that if you want to stimulate economic growth, you need more capital from the federal government. That’s the last thing we need, frankly. I believe that right now we need to do whatever we can to free up the $6 trillion not at work in our economy. The $2 trillion on the Russell 1000 balance sheet because of government policy, not just over the last 8 years, but possibly over the last 20 years. The second is our small banks and regional banks have about $2 trillion on their balance sheets because we’ve taken that capital reserve from 3% to 6% to 7.5% unilaterally. Lastly, the repatriation tax has $2 trillion or more stuffed overseas. My question is, are those things you’re going to focus on not just in this budget, but over the next few years to continue to develop a consistent 3% growth in this economy? Director Mulvaney: Senator, I think you heard that in part of my exchange with Mr. Warner. You must have more capital investment to get the productivity up. Senator Perdue: But is that capital from the federal government more productive, or from the private sector? Director Mulvaney: That’s the point, and what this budget does is tries to focus on private capital investment and not public. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.25.2017	05.25.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Health Care & President Trump’s Agenda On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Lou Dobbs on Fox Business Channel’s Lou Dobbs Tonight about fixing health care and President Trump’s agenda to re-establish American leadership. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Re-establishing American Leadership: “This is a man re-engaging with the world and what we see is the world responding to him. On the Foreign Relations Committee, I traveled a lot and spoke to heads of state. The number one request they had was America needs to step up and lead again. That doesn't mean 100,000 troops on the ground in Syria, but what it does mean is we need to re-engage and coalesce against terrorism and to get our economies going again.” Rescuing Americans From Obamacare: “The solution is complicated, but it's not impossible. We have got to get behind President Trump and follow his leadership to get this done. This is a crisis. Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. There are about 1,100 counties across the country down to one provider in the individual market. We have seen premium increases of 140 percent.” Governing Again: “In 2017 and 2018, Republicans have to learn to govern again. This two-year period is a probation period, not a mandate. The first thing we had to do was get Judge Gorsuch confirmed and approved and we did that. Second is regulation. We passed 14 bills to move on regulation and the President is acting on that.” Doing The Heavy Lifting: “Now comes the heavy lifting. We have to give our version for the future of health care in the country a solid vote in the Senate and get it passed. Lastly, we have to pass this tax package that President Trump has already outlined in his one-page proposal.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.25.2017	05.25.17 U.S. Army Chief Of Staff Tells Senator David Perdue “Continuing Resolutions Hurt” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked Secretary Robert Speer, Acting Secretary of the Army, and General Mark Milley, Chief of Staff of the Army, about the damaging effect the broken budget process has on U.S. Army readiness. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Effect of the Broken Budget System on Army Readiness Senator Perdue: If you were to get a Continuing Resolution (CR) at any point in that four or five-year period you’re talking about, that would tie your hands to divert money from one area to another to address this readiness. How would that impact your ability to do what you’re talking about doing? General Milley: CRs hurt. I’ll let Secretary Speer—he’s a finance guy and he knows more about how they hurt than I do, but I can tell you they hurt. Acting Secretary Speer: One of the things about the CR—especially the longer-term they go but any CR—they have a cumulative effect. That’s part of what we’re coming out of from FY13, FY14, FY15 on—not only for a commander to know and sustain predictability for training and what they’re trying to do, but also, they are by nature conservative. So when they see the funding may run out, they react differently. They can be risk averse to that, but also you start making bad purchasing decisions. Those types of things go on. Senator Perdue: Make shorter-term decisions is what you’re saying? Acting Secretary Speer: Right. Correct. Senator Perdue: Less optimal decisions than you would make if you had a steady runway of dependable funding? Acting Secretary Speer: They’re more expensive, too. They hold things to the very end and you have a whole bunch of purchases at the very end of the year that you don’t get the best bargain for. General Milley: It’s a crazy way to do it. This CR thing—this is just one man’s opinion I suppose, but it’s a crazy way to do it. Senator Perdue: Sir, I come from a different world, too. I come from the business world. I’ve never seen this done anywhere else in the world. It’s absolutely absurd that we would do that and tie your hands to move money from one department to another—to even adapt to reduce levels of spending. U.S. Army Brigade Combat Team (BCTs) Readiness Senator Perdue: General Allyn just in February before our Subcommittee on Readiness that one-third of your Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs), one-fourth of your Combat Aviation Brigades (CABs), and half of your Division Headquarters—only half—were deemed “ready” at that point. He also went on to say that only three of our 58 BCTs in total, including Guard and Reserve, could be called upon to “fight tonight.” How does the President’s FY18 budget proposal allow you to address that? General Milley: Our readiness objective for the Regular Army is [to have] 66 percent of the formations at the highest level of combat readiness. And our objective for the reserve component (both National Guard and Army Reserve) is 60 percent of their enabling capabilities…Readiness is cumulative, and I think based on our current projections, assuming we hold constant things like up-tempo, and we get steady, predictable funding, then I think you’ll see significant improvement in readiness at the end of FY 18, for sure. It won’t necessarily be at the objective level, but it will be a significant improvement over what it is today. Senator Perdue: How much would you need to get to the objective level? General Milley: Steady, predictable funding for several years in a row. And a growth in the size of the force. We chose in this particular budget to flat-line the end-strength growth. If more money became available, I certainly would like to see that as well. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the posture of the Department of the Army here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.24.2017	05.24.17 Senator David Perdue: Regardless Of CBO Score, Obamacare Is Collapsing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score for the House-passed health care bill: “Regardless of any CBO score, it’s no secret Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. Families need real relief now from the limited choices and skyrocketing costs of the failed law. Doing nothing is not an option. The Senate is working now to build on the efforts in the House to make our health care system more affordable and accessible for everyone.” Background on Obamacare in Georgia: In Georgia, average monthly health care premiums have doubled since Obamacare’s key provisions were implemented from $209 in 2013 to an unaffordable $431 in 2017. 96 out of 159 counties in Georgia only have one insurance carrier and many counties nationwide have been told their only insurance carrier will not be in business next year. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.24.2017	05.24.17 Senator David Perdue On Historic Arrival Of Global Hawk At Robins Air Force Base WARNER ROBINS, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, commented on the historic arrival of the RQ-4 Global Hawk to Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia: “Robins is the first Air Force Air Logistics Complex to receive the Global Hawk aircraft. This state-of-the-art remotely piloted aircraft is a critical weapon in the arsenal of combatant commanders around the world. I’m glad to see the potential for additional mission sets are being investigated at Robins. I’m extremely proud of the hard work of everyone at Robins in preparing for this new opportunity. Georgia continues to be a leading contributor to our national security, building on our state’s long and proud military tradition.” Background: The RQ-4 Global Hawk is a high-altitude, long-endurance remotely piloted aircraft system with an integrated sensor suite that provides intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capability worldwide. The Global Hawk's mission is to provide a broad spectrum of ISR collection capability to support joint combatant forces in worldwide peacetime, contingency and wartime operations. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2017	05.23.17 Senator David Perdue: Combatting Symmetric Threats From China And Russia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked Dan Coats, Director of National Intelligence, and Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, about the threats posed against the U.S. by China and Russia. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. China’s Efforts to Expand Its Influence Senator Perdue: General Stewart, you said in your opening remarks that we’ve gone from a “1 + 1” strategy in our military today to a “4 + 1”—you just mentioned five: North Korea, Russia, China, Iran, and extremists. On top of that, we have cyber and space. I want to talk about China and Russia, our two symmetric, contrarian threats. This year China will spend $826 billion, projected in real equivalent purchasing power parity terms, on their military. We’ll spend directionally $600 billion. I would argue that today we have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the smallest and oldest Air Force ever. What is China’s purpose in this massive buildup that they are in the midst of right now? Lt. Gen. Stewart: Purpose number one: to be able to fight and win in the Pacific. Senator Perdue: Would you say they’re on parity with us in the Pacific today? Does your intelligence reveal that? Lt. Gen. Stewart: In some aspects, and I won’t talk about them here, there’s parity; but in some areas we’re still far superior. We look at them in all domains: space, cyberspace, air, land, sea, and surface—so we’re competing in all those domains. [Their] primary objective: fight and win in the Pacific; be prepared if the United States entered a conflict in the Pacific; and increase the cost of any of our actions in the Pacific. Russian Anti-Access Area Denial (A2AD) Senator Perdue: Russia in the last five years has dramatically increased its global footprint. They have Mirmansk, Kaliningrad, Crimea, and now, Tartus and Latakia on the coast of Syria. What does our intelligence say that Russia intends to do having encircled that part of the world with those major bases? Lt. Gen. Stewart: The “encirclement” as you describe it—the Western anti-axis barrier—runs from the Arctic through Mirmansk, through Kaliningrad, Crimea, and down. [Russia’s military buildup] is to break out of the “encirclement”—their words—caused by NATO countries in their near abroad. So again, the Anti-Access Area Denial (A2AD) capability is to increase the cost of any U.S./NATO action against Russia, and to protect and give them buffer space. I don’t think they’re done. I think they’d like to extend that barrier down through the Mediterranean. I’m worried about actions that they might take in Libya to increase that barrier. But that is about breaking out of the NATO encirclement. China’s Military Buildup In Africa Senator Perdue: Africa is a major involvement for China: economically, militarily—they’re building a base right now in Djibouti just miles away from our base at Camp Lemonnier. What is the purpose of that base and are you concerned? What does our intelligence say that their objective is in Africa? Director Coats: Well the Chinese are expanding their influence globally. They are looking at areas of the world that you wouldn’t necessarily think a regional power like China would want to be engaged in. The Chinese are making substantial investments, and sometimes linking that, as you mentioned, with Djibouti and building a base there. I think they view that as part of their long-term strategy to become a global power—not just a regional power. They are spending an extraordinary amount of effort and investment. That One Belt, [One] Road situation gives them access: expedited access to Europe, but access, also, to the Indian Ocean region and the Middle East. So they’ve been very aggressive in pursuing those types of initiatives, I think, with the long-term strategy in mind of being a global power. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on worldwide threats here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2017	05.23.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On White House Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, comments on President Trump’s budget for fiscal year 2018: “We finally have a president who is willing to make tough choices and work towards dealing with this financial catastrophe. Despite heading in the right direction, in reality, this budget proposal will likely never be put into action because of the broken budget process in Washington. We cannot take our eye off the bigger picture, and I believe the only way forward is to completely change the way Congress funds the federal government.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.23.2017	05.23.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On The Manchester Terror Attack WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the Manchester terror attack: “Last night’s attack in Manchester was devastating. Such senseless acts of terror will not be tolerated, and those responsible for this cowardly act of violence will be held accountable. The United States stands with our long-time ally, the United Kingdom, in defeating this shared enemy. Last night's attack is a grim reminder that we must remain vigilant here at home by taking every precaution to protect the safety of all Americans. Bonnie and I extend our deepest sympathy to all those affected by this tragedy and continue to keep the victims and their families in our prayers.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.22.2017	05.22.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On President Trump’s Trip To Israel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on President Trump’s trip to Israel: “My first foreign trip as a United States Senator was to Israel where I personally met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. It is critical to engage our strongest partner and ally in the most volatile part of the world. President Trump is sending a powerful message today by visiting Israel on his first international trip as commander-in-chief. As the first sitting U.S. President to visit the Western Wall, this further demonstrates the unbreakable bond between the United States and Israel.” View photos of Senator Perdue’s first trip to Israel here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.18.2017	05.18.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On “The Future Of Navy” Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on “The Future of Navy” report released by U.S. Navy Chief of Naval Operations Admiral John Richardson: “The Navy is an essential force that we rely on to deter aggression, project power, and maintain freedom of the seas. However, the national debt and Washington’s broken budget process has undermined our ability to fully support our defense priorities. This includes building and maintaining the ships and submarines required to meet the increasing demand of global missions. I share Admiral Richardson’s vision of growth and his concern with the debt. I look forward to working with him through the Armed Services Committee to strengthen our naval forces.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Senator David Perdue Thanks Transportation Leadership Team For I-85 Repair WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) thanks Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) Commissioner Russell McMurry, contractor C.W. Matthews, the Georgia State Patrol, and local and state government officials for their successful effort to get the I-85 bridge rebuilt a month ahead of the projected date of completion. Click here or on the photo below. (GDOT Commissioner Russell McMurry and Senator David Perdue) “I want to congratulate GDOT Commissioner Russell McMurry, Governor Deal, and their teams for their unbelievable accomplishment of repairing the I-85 bridge in an astonishing six weeks. The cooperation we witnessed from Governor Deal, GDOT, Georgia State Patrol, and local leaders is something that should be replicated around the country. President Trump, Secretary Chao, and the Georgia Congressional Delegation responded immediately to remove any regulatory impediments and ensure initial seed funding was made available for this work. When I visited the site, I was so impressed with the workers, the coordination with suppliers, and the productivity that was being achieved in accomplishing this repair. These construction teams should be commended because they went above the call to accomplish this significant project. This entire experience has proven to be a perfect example of how federal, state, and local governments can work together in a crisis to avoid the typical government delays and get the job done. Congratulations again to everyone involved in getting this bridge up and functioning again.” Click here to view photos of Senator Perdue touring the I-85 bridge repair. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s Agenda On Bloomberg TV WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with David Westin on Bloomberg TV’s Bloomberg Daybreak about national security and President Trump’s tax priorities. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Responding To Memo Reports: “Knowing President Trump the way I know him and seeing how he has operated over the last four months, it would be hard for me to believe that this will be substantiated so we will see how it turns out. I'm anxious to get past all of this this week and move on to the agenda the people in America really want us to focus on.” Confidence In Committee Investigations: “The select committee we have is an intelligence committee in the Senate. They have been investigating the Russia accusations, and they will look into these allegations as well. I have full confidence they will get to the bottom of all of this.” Improving Our Competitive Edge: “What the border adjustment tax does and the reason they are talking about it is to pay for these cuts, but let's focus on what we are really trying to do. The corporate tax rate and the repatriation tax need to be adjusted so we can compete with the rest of the world.” Shelving Regressive Tax Idea: “I think this border adjustment tax is a regressive tax. It hammers low-income and middle-income consumers. More importantly, we saw what happened in Europe when they put a consumption tax on top of an income tax, central governments grew by two-thirds over there.” Encouraging Capital Investments: “We’ve got $2 trillion stuck on the balance sheets of American banks because of Dodd-Frank, and you’ve got somewhere between $2 trillion and $3 trillion stuck overseas in un-repatriated profits. I was a CEO. I had profits stuck overseas. I know when I wanted to build assets, some of those decisions were made based on where I could deploy that money.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.16.2017	05.16.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses National Security On Fox News WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Neil Cavuto on Fox News’ Your World with Neil Cavuto about President Trump’s national security efforts. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Fostering Ally Partnerships: “The people of Israel and the people of America have a lot in common, and we have been strong allies through the years. The Secretary of State and the National Security Adviser were in the room with the President. They say none of this happened the way the press has reported it. That's good enough for me.” Outsider-In-Chief: “He's an outsider in this process as I am, and I will tell you I give him high marks in the first four months in office.” Re-Engaging Internationally: “This is a guy who is re-engaging on the international scene. He is making sure China and Russia know what American national interests are.” Protecting Sensitive Information: “We take this very seriously in the Senate. We have to treat this classified information very carefully. I know the White House is committed to the same thing. This is a President that is beginning to reassert the national interests of America.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.16.2017	05.16.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses National Security, Tax & Budget Priorities On Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network’s Mornings With Maria about overhauling the tax code, fixing Washington’s broken budget system, and tackling our country’s debt crisis. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Shiny Object In Washington: “When General McMaster says something didn’t happen, it didn’t happen. This is the shiny object of the day for the media and Washington. I want to get back to talking about the debt, the upcoming budget, and this President re-engaging. Isn’t it refreshing that we have a President re-engaging with U.S. allies around the world on his first international trip?” Putting Patients First: “Right now, Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. In Georgia, we have 96 out of 159 counties that only have one insurance carrier, and there’re many states right now being told that their only insurance carrier will not be in business next year. What we have got to do is make sure people have access to care. Second, is get after the cost of premiums. Third, is make sure Medicaid expansion is dealt with properly, and of course, the pre-existing condition issue has to be dealt with as well.” Changing The Tax Code: “I hope that we’ve established in the Senate that the border adjustment tax does not really have a place in this tax reform package. We’re focused on corporate tax reform and becoming competitive with the rest of the world. We’re focused on the repatriation tax and also, the individual tax changes President Trump wants to make. All three of those are growth-oriented, and that’s what we’re focused on in the Senate.” Saving Social Security: “A balanced budget is going to take getting at the 800-pound gorilla in the room, and that is saving Social Security and Medicare.” Tackling Our Debt Crisis: “This is a long-term fix. This is a 20-year or 30-year fix to solve this debt crisis. We are $20 trillion in the hole. We are so far down in this rabbit hole right now, this is going to take a long-term strategy.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.16.2017	05.16.17 Senators Perdue, Strange Act To Restore Justice In Sanctuary Cities “Sanctuary cities continue to put politics over safety and security.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Luther Strange (R-AL) are taking action to restore respect for the rule of law and stop sanctuary cities from penalizing local businesses for bidding to work on the border wall. The senators’ Securing the Border and Protecting Our Communities Act, would withhold federal transportation grant funds from cities that refuse to cooperate with the Department of Justice and reallocate the funds towards the completion of the border wall project authorized in the Secure Fence Act of 2006. “Sanctuary cities continue to put politics over safety and security,” said Senator Perdue. “In their latest attempt at political grandstanding, sanctuary cities are threatening to penalize their own taxpaying local businesses if they submit plans to help enhance our border security with a wall. Our nation is a nation of laws. Until these cities join the rest of us in following these laws, they have no business receiving federal grant funds.” “The American people spoke out loud and clear last year in support of one of President Trump’s most important promises – to finish building the wall on our Southern border. This legislation will restore the rule of law in sanctuary cities while helping fund the President’s promise,” said Senator Strange. “Penalizing businesses for joining in this critical national security effort is beyond the pale. I introduced this bill to make it clear that cities do not get to play games with the safety of their people or ignore clear federal statutes. They can either follow the law or fund the wall.” Last month, California state lawmakers advanced a measure to prohibit the state from awarding contracts to any company involved in the wall’s construction. Similar measures have been introduced or considered in New York, Rhode Island, and San Francisco. The city of Berkley, California adopted a “black list” to cut off any funds to companies or contractors that want to assist with the building of the border wall. View the Securing the Border and Protecting Our Communities Act, here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.15.2017	05.15.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Recognize National Police Week Honors Georgia officers killed in line of duty on Peace Officers Memorial Day ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today co-sponsored a Senate resolution to honor law enforcement officers in Georgia and across the country by designating the week of May 15-21, 2017, as National Police Week. Today, May 15, is Peace Officers Memorial Day. The resolution remembers the 143 law enforcement officers across the United States killed in the line of duty in 2016 and the 42 law enforcement officers killed during the first four months of 2017. Additionally, the resolution expresses strong support for law enforcement officers’ efforts to build safer and more secure communities and recognizes the members of the law enforcement community for their selfless acts of bravery. “Our law enforcement officers dedicate themselves to the betterment of their communities, regardless of personal risk,” said Senator Isakson. “Declaring this week as National Police Week in recognition of our law enforcement communities’ sacrifices and bravery is but a small token of gratitude to these officers and their families. We honor all who serve and offer our final respects to those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to keep our families and our communities safe.” “This week we thank the women and men who put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe,” said Senator Perdue. “Our police officers are always a call away and the first to lend a helping hand when they see someone in need. It's because of their bravery and swift actions, that countless lives are saved every day in Georgia. I join Georgians and Americans in thanking our police officers for their hard work and remembering our fallen heroes who have been killed in the line of duty.” In Georgia, the following law enforcement officers paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty in 2016, including Greg Barney of the Riverdale Police Department, Patrick Carothers of the U.S. Marshals Service, Anthony Freeman of the Bibb County Sheriff’s Office, Daryl Smallwood of the Peach County Sheriff’s Office, Nicholas Smarr of the Americus Police Department, Tim Smith of the Eastman Police Department, Jody Smith of the Georgia Southwestern State University Police Department, Patrick Sondron of the Peach County Sheriff’s Office, and Justin White of the Newton County Sheriff’s Office. The Senate resolution was introduced by U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and is co-sponsored by 62 Senators including Senators Isakson and Perdue. The full text of the resolution can be found here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.15.2017	05.15.17 Senator David Perdue Co-Hosts Squawk Box, Discusses President Trump’s Agenda “There has been some progress. We've got some heavy lifting yet to come.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) today co-hosted CNBC’s Squawk Box with Becky Quick, Joe Kernen, and Andrew Sorkin, and led a conversion about the ongoing work on President Trump’s bold agenda. Making Progress: “It's about time that we break some eggs in Washington and change direction. The people in the real world know what needs to be done up here. It's the people in Washington who are having a tough time.” Executing On The Agenda: “Washington is always running to the latest distraction. We have some long-term systemic problems, the debt, the military recap, but President Trump put forth four priorities this year: health care, tax issues, regulations are a big item this year, as well as the Supreme Court. There has been some progress. We've got some heavy lifting yet to come.” Lowering Health Care Costs: “The thing that has not been addressed is the cost of health care. Premiums go up for two reasons. One they're managing risk, but they also reflect the rising cost of basic health care. Sooner or later we have to address the health care delivery system and the rising costs.” Tackling The Debt Crisis: “We have two crises in our country today. One is the global security crisis, but we also have a debt crisis that limits our ability to fund all the priorities we need to as a country, including our military.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.12.2017	05.12.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Co-sponsor Bipartisan Childhood Cancer Research Expansion WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) recently co-sponsored the bipartisan Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, Research (STAR) Act, which would advance childhood cancer treatments through research and program development. “It is extremely important that we increase research to develop new treatments and new therapies to cure the devastating effects of childhood cancer,” said Senator Isakson, who is a member of the Senate health committee and who also co-sponsored this legislation during the 114th Congress. “This critical legislation is a positive step forward to help find the right cures for our youngest patients.” “As a voice for Georgia, it is imperative to speak up for our state’s youngest citizens,” said Senator Perdue. “No child should have to suffer from this horrible disease. This is a step in the right direction to expand childhood cancer research and improve the quality of life of those who survive childhood cancer.” Background: The Childhood Cancer STAR Act was unanimously approved by the House in December of 2016. Specifically, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act would improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, support research to improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors, and identify opportunities to expand the research of therapeutics necessary to treat the approximately 15,700 children diagnosed with cancer in the U.S. every year. Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue are joined by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) in introducing this legislation. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.11.2017	05.11.17 Senator David Perdue Introduces Commissioner Gary Black In Agriculture Committee WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, introduced Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture Gary Black in a committee hearing addressing pesticide registration and how to give stakeholders more regulatory certainty through the Pesticide Registration Improvement Act. Click here to watch the video or on the photo below. Transcript: “I’m proud to introduce Georgia’s Commissioner of Agriculture, Gary Black. Gary is a personal friend of mine, has been for years. He is a dedicated partner and advocate for our farmers in Georgia. Throughout a 35 year career in agriculture, he is a farmer. He’s been very focused on federal policies working at the state level, and working on the impacts of food safety, science-based environmental stewardship, and marketing. Agriculture in our state is our largest economy, and we take it very seriously that Gary Black is our number one marketing officer for that industry. He has consistently supported us to where we are the number one state in the country for peanuts, broilers, pecans, and blueberries. Commissioner Black’s perspective on pesticide registration is especially important since states are partners with the federal government in this process. Over the last two decades, the ag seed and chemical industry has seen a substantial increase in the cost and time of getting new technologies from discovery and development, to farmers in the field. A large portion of these increased costs is from the increasingly complex and onerous federal regulatory environment. It’s important that the EPA and the USDA work with their state partners like Commissioner Black to ensure the process of getting pesticides to market is done in a timely manner, while still ensuring their safety. Thank you, Gary, for being here with us today. Your insight is important to Georgia and our country. I look forward to your testimony.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.10.2017	05.10.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On Former FBI Director Comey WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on former FBI Director James Comey: “President Trump acted decisively and within his authority, and I stand behind him. The FBI is much larger than one person and the bureau has thousands of agents working hard every day to keep our nation safe. I am confident a new permanent director will be nominated and confirmed as soon as possible.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Senator David Perdue: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Should Answer To Congress & Consumers “Ultimately, the CFPB should have scrapped this rule altogether but we were able to extract significant concessions to narrow its scope.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, comments on efforts to nullify a CFPB rule that impacts millions of consumers and stifles growth in the electronic payment marketplace. “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau should answer to Congress and the American consumer,” said Senator Perdue. “When the CFPB originally released its 1,689-page rule, it was entirely too broad and would negatively impact financial products millions of consumers use every day. The Congressional Review Act (CRA) process was an important tool to inject some oversight of this rogue agency, and something we will utilize again to rein in future overreaching rules. Ultimately, the CFPB should have scrapped this rule altogether but we were able to extract significant concessions to narrow its scope.” Senator Perdue has been working for more than two years to hold the CFPB accountable and shine light on this overreaching agency. To do so, he has: Introduced a 2015 budget amendment to rein in the CFPB Introduced legislation to make the CFPB accountable to the American people Intervened to prevent CFPB from implementing the Prepaid Card Rule Introduced the CFPB Accountability Act of 2017 Outlined the need for Congressional oversight of the CFPB Published an op-ed in Forbes on why the Prepaid Card Rule is bad for consumers. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Senator David Perdue: Keeping A Competitive Edge Against Adversaries’ Cyber Capabilities “We’re in a crisis stage right now in regard to our ability to detect and deter.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked Admiral Michael S. Rogers, Commander of the U.S. Cyber Command and Director of the National Security Agency, about the United States’ capabilities to detect and deter cyberattacks conducted by adversaries. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Ability To Detect And Deter Cyberattacks Senator Perdue: We’re in a crisis stage right now—and I think you would agree with that—with regard to our ability to detect and deter. I understand that in the long-term, the “ideal” might be to have a single integrated-cyber service because of the context dimension. In the interim phase, when we’re in this crisis mode, do we have a sense that a single integrated-cyber service might be counterproductive to our ability to stand up to the immediate threats? Admiral Rogers: It would be difficult to do it today in the short term. That would take a long-term investment, significant structural, cultural changes. It’s another reason why I would argue, optimize the structures and the mechanisms that are in place. Now we’ve also got to hold them accountable—don’t get me wrong—you can’t just turn to them and say, “Well do what you always do.” There has to be accountability and oversight. But I’m comfortable that the current approach is going to generate the outcomes we need. Even as I acknowledge it is not moving as fast as I would like. We’ve got a huge mismatch between current capacity and capability and what I know is the requirement. We’re always in a tail chase. Cyberattacks By Foreign Adversaries Senator Perdue: You mentioned earlier that the primary motive in hacking from Russia and China—primarily state actors—has been the extraction of data. In North Korea, we saw a little bit of a different attack where they went in and actually started placing what I would call sleeper imbedded code for a bigger event later. Do we see a continuing growth in that type of activity? Admiral Rogers: You do. You see every nation-state engage. They’ll penetrate a system. They’ll look to, not just extract, but study it, understand it, see where it connects to see if they can use this as a jumping-off point to get to somewhere else. One of the things we’re always looking for is, if a system has been penetrated, has the actor manipulated, changed, amended the configuration so they can gain access separately now? That’s one of the key things we always look for when we’re trying to do mitigation once someone has penetrated a system. So it’s the full spectrum. The simple answer is yes: it’s the full spectrum that we’ve seen a lot. Senator Perdue: Have we seen any evidence in the U.S.? Admiral Rogers: I’ve seen nation-states engage in activity in the U.S. where they’re clearly interested in a long-term presence–not just extracting data. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on U.S. Cyber Command here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Senator David Perdue Hosts Georgia Military Community Advisory Board ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with leaders from each of Georgia’s military communities to discuss how all of the state’s military bases can better work together to further strengthen Georgia’s contribution to our national defense. “This meeting was a great example of the benefit of bringing together the military community groups from around Georgia, said Senator Perdue. “We heard some very impressive presentations and had a productive discussion about best practices for increasing our role as a state in our national defense. Maintaining our national security is one of the most important jobs we have in Congress. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am proud of the role our state plays in providing for our national security.” Senator David Perdue was joined by representatives from over 15 military community groups advocating for each of Georgia’s nine bases. Albany Area Chamber of Commerce and Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission: “Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany is integral to the readiness of the U.S. Marine Corps, and critical to the economy of Albany and Southwest Georgia. We appreciate Senator Perdue's partnership in strengthening Georgia's military communities,” said Bárbara Rivera Holmes, President & CEO, Albany Area Chamber of Commerce and Justin Strickland, President, Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission. City of Valdosta: “Georgia is blessed by its military installations and the great pride they bring to our state in the national defense of our country. The men and women who live in our communities while serving our country add to the rich quality of life in our state. They contribute to the social, economic, cultural, civic, and heritage of our state and make us proud by their actions and their service. We appreciate Senator Perdue’s commitment to improve our national defense by providing the needed resources to the soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines who serve in Georgia,” said Larry H. Hanson, City Manager, City of Valdosta. Cobb Chamber of Commerce: “Dobbins ARB is an integral part of Georgia’s proud military history. As the only military base in the Atlanta region, Dobbins continues to serve our nation’s global missions and a strategic regional mission, as a disaster preparedness and recovery center. The 22nd Air Force, 94th Airlift Wing, Georgia National Guard and Lockheed Martin, and many others, within the Dobbins footprint, are all critical to its legacy of success. A legacy built upon great partnerships. Our business community, under Chamber leadership, has a long history of partnering with and supporting Dobbins ARB. Our Honorary Commanders program pairs community leaders with military counterparts for a year-long program building strong and lasting ties. The Atlanta Regional Military Affairs Council (ARMAC)-Military Appreciation Luncheon, in its 65th year, supports military members from the entire region. Most recently the Military Family Support Center, a public-private partnership provides commissary style services for National Guard and Reserve members, retired veterans and active-duty military personnel and their families. All of these programs are part of our Chamber’s core values, as they support the men and women who sacrifice for our nation. The Cobb Chamber greatly appreciates the leadership role Senator Perdue is taking in highlighting our military bases, which are important not only to our vital national interests and security but are vital components to Georgia’s overall economy,” said David Connell, President & CEO, Cobb Chamber of Commerce. Greater Columbus Georgia Chamber of Commerce: “The Department of Defense impacts Georgia in excess of $20 billion dollars a year. In the Fort Benning/Columbus Region we realize the financial impact of Fort Benning to be some $4.8 billion annually. While the financials are important, even more so is the manner in which we and Fort Benning partner and team. Fort Benning and the Columbus Region have become one family, as we are inseparable and Fort Benning Soldiers, Civilians and Family are an integral part of this regions very fabric. We are encouraged by Georgia’s support of the Department of Defense and our region is proud of the manner in which we have partnered with the state and our Georgia leadership in Washington to support our military. We have been honored to be invited and participate in today’s discussions with U.S. Senator Perdue and the other regions and communities identified with Georgia’s defense installations. It has been exciting to share and exchange ideas, experiences and focus on what roles we as well as our local and regional leadership may play to positively impact the future of our military partners in this great state of Georgia,” said Brian Anderson, President & CEO, Greater Columbus Georgia Chamber of Commerce. Southeast Georgia Friends of Fort Stewart and Hunter: “There can be no doubt of Georgia's importance to national defense. Georgia has the second largest active duty Army population in the U.S. with almost 47,000 soldiers and the fifth largest population of all active military services at over 88,000. The state’s location makes it the ideal rapid deployment hub for any crisis arising north, east or south of the United States with inter-modal facilities rivaled by none. Fort Stewart/Hunter Army Airfield has been touted as the Army Premier Power Projection Platform on the East Coast,” said Paul M. Andreshak, Executive Director, Southeast Georgia Friends of Fort Stewart and Hunter. The Camden Partnership: "We are pleased that Senator Perdue is reaching out to each of our military support organizations to be better understand the needs of our military and our installations in Georgia. After meeting, regularly for twenty years we have not met for the past few years. The collaborative efforts of this group will benefit our state, our military communities and the military who call Georgia home. Thank you, Senator,” said Sheila McNeill, President, The Camden Partnership. ###
05.08.2017	05.08.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Air Force Secretary, Dr. Heather Wilson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, congratulates former Congresswoman, Dr. Heather Wilson, on being confirmed as the next Air Force Secretary: “As an Air Force veteran and former Congresswoman, Dr. Wilson is qualified and well-poised to hit the ground running as our next Air Force Secretary,” said Senator Perdue. “Dr. Wilson and I have discussed in detail some of the Air Force’s most pressing challenges, including impending capability gaps for our most vital platforms. Not only does she understand the need to address these gaps, but she also has the experience to do something about them. I am confident Dr. Wilson will do an excellent job leading our nation’s Air Force and I was proud to support her confirmation today.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
05.05.2017	05.05.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Letter Requesting Report On Obama Administration’s Iran Prisoner Swap WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), James Inhofe (R-OK), Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Boozman (R-AR), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Luther Strange (R-AL) are requesting information on the crimes of the seven individuals granted clemency and the fourteen fugitives for whom charges were dropped as part of the prisoner exchange between the United States and Iran that was secretly negotiated by Obama Administration officials leading up to the Iran deal. “Based on new reports, we are concerned that President Obama and certain previous administration officials intentionally suppressed the seriousness of the charges against these individuals in order to garner public support for the nuclear deal with Iran, and we fear that these individuals may still pose a threat to the national security of the United States,” wrote the senators. “We have suspected for some time that the 7 individuals who received pardons or commuted sentences as part of this exchange were convicted of providing significant assistance to Iran’s nuclear program,” the senators continued. “A POLITICO investigation released on April 24, 2017 now confirms that several of these individuals were involved in aiding Iran’s illegal procurement network for microelectronics with applications for surface-to-air and cruise missiles and conspiring to supply Iran with satellite technology and hardware in violation of U.S. sanctions.” Given that much of this information was kept from the American people by the Obama Administration, the senators request a response from Secretary Tillerson, Attorney General Sessions, and Secretary Mnuchin to the following questions: Do we currently know the whereabouts of the 7 individuals whose federal prison sentences were commuted as part of the January 2016 swap? If so, are they still assisting the Iranian government in advancing its nuclear program or supporting its terrorist proxies? Do we currently know the whereabouts of the 14 fugitives whose federal charges were dropped as a part of the January 2016 swap? If so, are they still engaging in illicit activities on behalf of the Iranian government? Are you able to provide Congress with more information regarding the Obama Administration’s decision to stop supplying the National Counter-proliferation Initiative with resources? Is it true that certain Obama Administration officials may have been instructed to cease investigating certain elements of Iranian procurement networks operating in the U.S.? What counter-proliferation activities are we currently pursuing in order to combat Iran’s attempts to illicitly procure sanctioned goods? In your review of U.S. policies toward Iran so far, have you found that any of the concerning behaviors outlined above have carried over from the Obama Administration? View the full letter here. ###
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Funding Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the funding bill Congress passed for the remainder of fiscal year 2017: “President Trump is undertaking an ambitious turnaround of the federal government. His first funding bill is a step in the right direction to move forward after eight years of dysfunction. However, both the President and Congress are still hamstrung by the broken budget process. Too many in Washington will only negotiate when there is an ultimatum between funding the federal government or stopping everything in its tracks. We need to break through this vicious cycle by changing the budget process and putting in place a politically neutral platform that responsibly funds the government on time. Fixing the budget process is a prerequisite to solving our nation's debt crisis, and I will continue to work directly with President Trump and OMB Director Mulvaney to make sure we don’t take our eye off the bigger picture.” ###
05.01.2017	05.01.17 Senator David Perdue Receives Friend Of Farm Bureau Award WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, this week was presented with the American Farm Bureau’s “Friend of Farm Bureau” award at the Georgia Farm Bureau’s annual legislative meeting. Senator David Perdue presented “Friend of Farm Bureau” by Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long. “Having grown up working on my family’s farm, I’m proud to be a voice for Georgia farmers,” said Senator Perdue. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and our farmers continue to raise the bar year after year. Thank you to the Farm Bureau for this award and I look forward to continue working together to advance our state’s priorities.” “Senator Perdue has been a strong supporter of Georgia farmers since being elected to the United States Senate,” said Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long. “We are proud of our working relationship and look forward to addressing the new challenges facing our industry in the days ahead.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.29.2017	04.29.17 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Highlights President Trump’s Success At 100-Day Mark WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) highlights President Trump’s accomplishments as he marks his 100th day in office, Saturday, April 29. Renewing American Optimism “Consumer confidence, and I’ve watched this all my life, is actually up. It’s the highest it has been in 20 years. CEO confidence is up. Why is that? They are hopeful that we are actually going to break through on regulation, which they see happening right now, that we will end up with a relatively good tax package that will create a level playing field with the rest of the world, and we will solve this health care disaster that we are sitting here with and move forward.” (CNBC, 4/27/17) Removing Onerous Regulations “President Trump is serious about rolling back the more onerous regulations that have sucked the very life out of our free-enterprise system. They are looking at a President who is talking about doing the things we have been talked about for decades, including cleaning up our tax system and becoming more competitive with the rest of the world.” (CNN, 4/26/17) Turning Around Washington “We all know Washington does not like change. People are inherently adverse to change. Change is hard to visualize or even accept until it has already happened. Washington needs a complete turnaround and President Trump is in a position to help make that change stick. I’ve been through tough turnarounds in my business career. This one, like most, is not always pretty, but I like what I’m seeing so far. There’s much more that must be done, though.” (Fox News, 4/27/17) Confirming U.S. Supreme Court Justice “Judge Gorsuch has led a remarkable career in both the public and private sectors, and has demonstrated a keen understanding and appreciation of the law. He has impeccable academic and judicial records, and is a mainstream judge who knows his role is to interpret the law, not make the law.” (The Marietta Daily Journal, 2/26/17) ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.28.2017	04.28.17 Senator David Perdue Delivers Remarks At NRA-ILA Conference WASHINGTON, DC – Following President Trump’s speech today, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) delivered remarks at the 2017 NRA-ILA Conference in Atlanta, Georgia. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Getting Results “I see this man moving in so many directions. He’s moving at a business-pace, not a bureaucratic-pace. He’s looking to pull back the regulations that have sucked the very life out of this economy over the last eight years. He is fighting hard to bring justice back to our country. He nominated Neil Gorsuch…and we confirmed Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court.” Restoring Rule Of Law “This President is enforcing federal law. He will stop the insanity called sanctuary cities. This is a President who will remove felons who are in this country illegally. This is a President that doesn’t veto things that will reverse onerous rules that violate our rights as Americans. I actually put a bill in recently that scrapped an Obama-era rule that threatened due process and Second Amendment rights, and you know what, he has already signed that into law.” Putting Security First “Isn’t it refreshing that we now have a President who will stand up for our Second Amendment Rights? Isn’t it refreshing we have a President who will stand up and enforce laws? Isn’t it refreshing we have a President who will stand up to those around the world who would do us harm?... Prior disregard for our Constitution will no longer be permitted.” Supporting Americans In Uniform “We need to support law enforcement officers and give them our full, undivided support. We need to fund our women and men in the military and stop this nonsense of not building an Army, a Navy, and an Air Force. Do you know we have the smallest Army since World War II, the smallest Navy since World War I, and the oldest—and smallest—Air Force, ever. We will fix this.” Enacting Term Limits “It’s finally time to bring term limits to the United States Congress! Let’s be clear though. This is bigger than me. It’s bigger than you. It’s really bigger than Donald Trump. This is about the freedom of our children and our children’s children.” Seizing Moment Of Opportunity “We simply have to work together to seize this moment of opportunity, and change the direction of our country. God Bless you, God Bless Georgia, and God Bless the United States of America.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Secretary Of Labor, Alexander Acosta WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm Alexander Acosta as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor: “Americans can add Alexander Acosta to the long list of exceptional leaders now serving in President Trump’s Cabinet. A strong labor force is necessary to lead the United States back to economic prosperity. I am confident Secretary Acosta will deliver on President Trump’s jobs agenda, putting Americans back to work and rolling back the burdensome regulations, like the fiduciary rule, that stifle our free-enterprise system.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Senator David Perdue: China On Track To Reach Parity With U.S. In Pacific “I am concerned we’re in the middle of a paradigm shift relative to the other superpowers.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, asked Admiral Harry B. Harris, Commander of the U.S. Pacific Command about China’s increasing influence in the Asia-Pacific region and the threat of China’s growing investment in its military. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Senator Perdue: Since the Barbary Pirates and our first five frigates, the United States has always dealt with our foreign policy and our national interest from a position of strength. I’m very concerned as we sit here today that we’re in the middle of a paradigm shift relative to the other superpowers. Since 2000, China has spent or is spending today approximately six times more on their military. Is that directionally correct in your mind? About six times compared to just fifteen years ago? Admiral Harris: Probably, sir. I don’t have the data. I’ve seen the curve and the curve is dramatic in the amount of defense spending they’re doing based on just what they tell us, and they’re probably spending higher. Senator Perdue: Well I lived over there and I’ve manufactured over there. I’ve sold over there. When you adjust the currency and the ability that they have to buy their weapons and their systems cheaper than we can, I look at the developments just this year. You educated me about a year or so ago about their DF-26, the “Carrier Killer,” the first aircraft was coming online this year. The fact that 95% of their missiles would violate the INF Treaty, and that they far outrange our capabilities today, would you say today, sir, that China is on parity with the United States military capability in the Pacific Region? Admiral Harris: I would not, in terms our asymmetric advantages and the quality of our equipment and our people. That said, quantity has a quality all its own, and they are swiftly moving to exceed the United States in terms of numbers of ships, submarines and aircraft and the like. So we have to continue to work and resource those asymmetric advantages that we have. Certainly China is trying to close that gap in every regime. Senator Perdue: So in the next five years, if you continue that trajectory, there is every reason to believe going on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis that they will actually double the amount of investment that we have in the military. That’s just a projection. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the U.S. Pacific Command here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s First 100 Days On CNBC “We have to fix this budget process so we don't face this every year.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Becky Quick, Joe Kernen, and Andrew Sorkin on CNBC’s Squawk Box about the First 100 Days of the Trump Administration and President Trump’s tax priorities. Click here to view the video or on the image below. Encouraging Growth: “President Trump said job one would be get the economy going and he is trying to move in that direction. The regulatory work that has been done so far is encouraging. I like this tax conversation and I give Paul Ryan and Kevin Brady a lot of credit for starting this dialogue this year. I am hopeful that we will get there, but I am encouraged by the White House tax plan that came out yesterday… I am excited we are talking about things that are pro-growth.” Leveling the Playing Field: “Isn’t it refreshing we are having this [tax reform] conversation? What President Trump is trying to do is create a level playing field. I think he is going to get great receptivity in the Senate on that. We’ve got some tough things to get through. The revenue neutral issue is a Washington issue.” Fixing the Budget Process: “We’re actually going through a funding conversation this week that I find absolutely ridiculous. We're seven months into this fiscal year and here we are still arguing about how to fund—not 2018—but 2017…We have to fix this budget process so we don't face this every year.” Improving Consumer Confidence: “Consumer confidence, and I’ve watched this all my life, is actually up. It’s the highest it has been in 20 years. CEO confidence is up. Why is that? They are hopeful that we are actually going to break through on regulation, which they see happening right now, that we will end up with a relatively good tax package that will create a level playing field with the rest of the world, and we will solve this health care disaster that we are sitting here with and move forward.” Debating Tax Options: “I’ve lived through this…Why would you want to put a consumer tax on top of an income tax? That’s what Europe did and we saw the European central governments grow two-thirds in the next decade. Our government has already grown two-thirds." ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.26.2017	04.26.17 Senator David Perdue Comments On White House North Korea Briefing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on the White House North Korea briefing: “North Korea’s reckless belligerence threatens our allies in the region and could possibly threaten the homeland in the future. Today’s briefing signals President Trump’s willingness to engage and inform both Republicans and Democrats in Congress of the increasing risk posed by North Korea. A strong U.S. partnership with our allies in the region is essential to reining in this rogue nation and sending the message that this threatening behavior will not be tolerated.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.26.2017	04.26.17 Senator David Perdue Meets Georgia Teacher Of The Year ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) met with the 2017 Georgia Teacher of the Year, Casey Bethel. Bethel is a science teacher at New Manchester High School, which is a part of the Douglas County School System. To read more about Mr. Bethel, click here. Click here to view or on the photo below. “As the son of two schoolteachers, it is inspiring to meet a teacher who is so passionate about his profession and dedicated to helping his students succeed,” said Senator Perdue. “I congratulate Mr. Bethel on being named Georgia’s Teacher of the Year and wish him the best as he moves on to compete for National Teacher of the Year.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.26.2017	04.26.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s First 100 Days On CNN WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Alisyn Camerota on CNN’s New Day about the First 100 Days of the Trump Administration and President Trump’s tax reform plan that is expected to be announced today. Click here to view the video or on the image below. Renewing Optimism: “Consumer confidence is at a twenty-year high. CEO confidence is at a seventeen-year high. Manufacturing confidence is at a thirteen-year high. People who are looking at the results of this President in the First 100 Days are seeing hope.” Rolling Back Regulations: “They are seeing that this President is serious about rolling back the more onerous regulations that have sucked the very life out of our free-enterprise system. They are looking at a President who is talking about doing the things we have been talked about for decades, including cleaning up our tax system and becoming more competitive with the rest of the world.” Tackling the Debt Crisis: “We have 20 trillion dollars in debt…You can't cut your way out of it. You can't tax your way out of it. You can't grow your way out of it. You have to do all of the above. The first thing you have to do is get the economy going but we have got to move towards fixing our broken budget process. It has worked only four times in the last forty-two years.” Establishing America’s Interests: “We are re-engaging with the international community. President Trump has met with President Xi from China and talked about the problems in Asia. He sent [Secretary] Tillerson to Moscow. Vice President Pence just finished ten days in Asia. This is a President that is re-engaging with the rest of the world and trying to get our economy going again. I think he has really accomplished what he said he would do in the First 100 Days.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.25.2017	04.25.17 Senator David Perdue Acts To Protect Purple Heart Medals Introduces legislation to stop second-hand dealers from selling lost or stolen medals WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is leading the effort in the Senate to protect the Purple Heart and stop second-hand dealers from profiting on the sacrifices of America’s war heroes. Senator David Perdue posthumously presents the Purple Heart to the family of 1LT Franklyn Lewis Snyder on April 22, 2016 “Many Purple Heart medals are lost and stolen from the original recipient or their family members,” said Senator Perdue. “It is our job to preserve the sacrifices made by our servicewomen and men. To do this successfully, we need to stop second-hand parties from selling our veterans’ treasured medals. Frankly, I cannot believe this hasn’t already been done and I will continue to do all I can to honor the many sacrifices our troops have made to protect our freedoms.” “It’s a great day in Georgia now that Senator David Perdue has sponsored the Purple Heart Preservation Act,” said Doug Middleton, Region IV Commander for the Military Order of the Purple Heart out of Roswell, GA. “The sacrifice and valor represented by the Purple Heart Medal should never be cheapened by being treated as if it were some simple commodity that can be bartered. Recipients of the medal and families of fallen heroes appreciate the stance Senator Perdue has taken to safeguard the significance of our nation’s oldest military decoration.” “The Purple Heart is our Nation's symbol of military sacrifice,” said Hershel Gober, National Commander of the Military Order of the Purple Heart. “When lost Purple Hearts are recovered, MOPH strongly believes that they should be returned to veterans and families at no cost, not sold for profit on the collectors market. We strongly support the Purple Heart Preservation Act and thank Senator Perdue for his leadership on this issue.” “The National Military and Veterans Alliance appreciates Senator Perdue's leadership with regard to introducing the Purple Heart Preservation Act,” said Ted Painter, co-director of the National Military and Veterans Alliance (NMVA). “Regrettably, unscrupulous persons have found a profitable market in the buying and selling of our military's oldest award, given when a service member is wounded in combat. This act will make the buying or selling of these time honored awards illegal and the NMVA is proud to support this legislation.” Background: Senator Perdue introduced the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act on March 29, 2017. Companion legislation was introduced by Congressman Paul Cook (R-CA-8) in the House of Representatives on January 13, 2017. Private Corrado Piccoli was an Infantryman assigned to Company H, 180th Infantry Regiment, which fell under the 45th Infantry Division. Corrado was reported missing in action in the village of Fremifontaine, France, and later reported Killed in Action there on 7 Oct 1944. Click here to read the letter of support for the Private Corrado Piccoli Purple Heart Preservation Act from the Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH). ###
04.24.2017	04.24.17 Senator David Perdue Congratulates New Secretary Of Agriculture, Governor Sonny Perdue WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, congratulates his first cousin, Governor Sonny Perdue, upon the Senate confirmation of his nomination to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. Senator Perdue presided over the vote and voted present. Transcript: “I rise tonight to speak briefly about our new Secretary of Agriculture, my first cousin, Sonny Perdue. I grew up with this man. I probably know too much about him but we won’t go there tonight. He grew up on a farm, he became a doctor of veterinary medicine, and served in the Air Force. He had an ag business for the past 40 years. He and I have been in business together. I've seen his integrity and his responsibility all my life. He became the first Republican Governor in over 135 years in our state of Georgia, just 15 years ago. He served two terms. He created The Commission for a New Georgia, and started an economic development focus in our state that has carried on for the last 15 years. It has yielded the fact that our state today, by independent reports, is the best state in the country in which to do business. Tonight, he has been confirmed as our next Secretary of Agriculture and I could not be more proud for him, for our family, but most importantly, for our country. I want to be the first in this august body to call my cousin, Sonny Perdue, by his new title, Mr. Secretary. I believe he is an outstanding candidate. I want to commend the President of the United States for his nomination. I think this is further evidence that this President, Donald J. Trump, is building an outstanding Cabinet with which to change the direction of our country, to get this economy going, to put America back to work again, to re-engage internationally, and to develop a fair and level playing field with the rest of the world economically. As Secretary of Agriculture, my cousin has a big job. He’s got a big responsibility. I look forward to working with him as a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee to make our agriculture, farming, and ranching industries vigorous and strong now, and for future generations.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
04.14.2017	04.14.17 Senator David Perdue Speaks With Director Of Atlanta VA ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with Annette Walker, Director of the Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, to discuss issues facing the VA and ways to improve medical care for our nation’s heroes. Click here to view the photo or on the image below. Senator David Perdue and staff meet with Director of the Atlanta VA. (From L-R: Paul Seals, Dr. Tincie Lynch, Director Annette Walker, Terri Dann, and Senator David Perdu “The women and men who have served our country deserve the best care after defending our rights,” said Senator Perdue. “Finding solutions to improve our veterans’ care is of great importance to me, and I will continue working with our VA to make sure that happens.” ###
04.14.2017	04.14.17 Senator David Perdue Visits Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) visited Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta’s Egleston campus and met with the leadership team, including CEO Donna Hyland. Click here to view the photo or on the image below. Senator David Perdue and staff meet with Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta Leadership. (From L-R: John Eunice, Ron Frieson, Joyce White, Joe Rogers, Senator Perdue, Donna Hyland, Jonathan Goldman, Jamila Pope, Mary Beth Bova, Dr. Patrick Frias, Dr. Michael Davis, David Tatum) “Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta is a flagship medical facility,” said Senator Perdue. “As one of America’s largest pediatric clinical care providers, Children’s not only has a major impact on Georgia’s communities, but also the entire world. It was great to meet with CEO Donna Hyland and her leadership team today, and I look forward to a continued dialog about how we can improve pediatric care and save more lives.” “We were delighted to host Senator Perdue and showcase the specialized care we provide to Georgia’s youngest citizens,” said Donna Hyland, President and Chief Executive Officer, Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. “We always welcome the opportunity to inform policymakers of what’s essential as it relates to the care of our patients.” ###
04.14.2017	04.14.17 Senator David Perdue Attends Law Enforcement Appreciation Cookout GLENNVILLE, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) thanked Georgia law enforcement officers and first responders for their service at Wayne Dasher’s 30th Annual Law Enforcement Appreciation cookout. Click here to view the photo or on the image below. Click here to watch Senator Perdue’s Facebook Live from the event. Senator Perdue at the Law Enforcement Appreciation cookout in Glennville. (From L-R: Wayne Dasher, Host, and Senator David Perdue) “We are grateful to our law enforcement officers and first responders for all they do to keep our communities safe,” said Senator Perdue. “Because of their bravery and swift actions, countless lives are saved every day in Georgia. Thank you to all of our officers and first responders for your service to our state.” ###
04.12.2017	04.12.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses U.S. Foreign Policy On Fox News ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke with Martha MacCallum on Fox News Channel’s The First 100 Days about the Trump Administration's recent actions with NATO, Russia, and the United Nations. Click here to view the video or on the image below. Secretary Tillerson’s Russia Meeting: “I think what you see in the bigger picture is the President of the United States standing up and leading again, and that's what we needed for a long time… We are establishing what our national interests are and we’re being very explicit about that with NATO, the United Nations, with China, and now with Russia.” Establishing America’s Interests: “It's all part of a longer-term strategy to re-engage on the international global scene to support and defend America's interests around the world…That's the action of a mature, seasoned leader. President Trump has only been in here, as you said, 83 days today. I am excited at the fact that we are re-engaging in the world, and that's what I hear from foreign leaders all over the world that they want America to lead again.” Next Steps For Syria: “There are two things that need to happen in Syria. One is we have to stop ISIS, and that's job one. President Trump said that again just today. Second, Bashar al-Assad has got to go. Once those two things happen, then we have to re-establish the government in Syria and also rebuild Syria. There's nothing to go home to now. All the refugees around the world who have left that part of the world have nothing to go home to. This is another conversation we’re beginning to have.” ###
04.12.2017	04.12.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Clark Atlanta University President, Dr. Ronald Johnson ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday met with Dr. Ronald Johnson, President of Clark Atlanta University. Click here to view the photo or on the image below. “Dr. Johnson is passionate about education and equipping Clark Atlanta University students with the tools they need to become the leaders of tomorrow,” said Senator Perdue. “This is evident through the great things Clark Atlanta is doing in our community. Georgia is fortunate to have a thriving HBCU network, which provides graduates with an active and engaged alumni network. I am grateful for Dr. Johnson’s input, and look forward to a continued partnership in the future.” ###
04.12.2017	04.12.17 Senator David Perdue Tours I-85 Bridge Repair ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today toured construction of the I-85 bridge repair. Click here to view the photo or on the image below. Click here to download video from the tour. U.S. Senator David Perdue and Georgia Department of Transportation Commissioner Russell McMurry discuss the I-85 bridge rebuilding effort and construction progress. “I am grateful that no Georgians were injured during the I-85 bridge collapse,” said Senator Perdue. “A special thank you goes out to our first responders for their swift action to protect everyone in the vicinity of the incident. After surveying the damage first hand on the ground, I am confident we will continue to work closely to coordinate our state and federal entities to get I-85 up and running again as soon as humanly possible.” “It’s really great to have you here today, Senator, pledging your federal support, and all the help that you’ve afforded Georgia is just outstanding,” said Commissioner McMurry. “From President Trump to Secretary Chao to you and our whole delegation, everyone has been so helpful throughout this process. It's been really important since we are all hands on deck to get this interstate open as soon as possible.” ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Senator David Perdue: Time For Assad To Go WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today appeared on BloombergTV to discuss last night’s U.S. airstrike in Syria. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Highlights Measured Response: “I cannot applaud President Trump more. This was a measured, proportional response and I think it was decisive. It is exactly what people around the world have been calling for the last few years. The heads of state I have met with over the last two years as a former member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have all been requesting this. They have been telling us that what we need is a president that will lead. This shows the world that chemical weapons are not going to be permitted.” Time For Assad To Go: “President Trump acted decisively on something he spoke out earlier in the week about. We are not going to tolerate the use of weapons of mass destruction and chemical weapons in Syria. It is time for Bashar al-Assad to go. We have got to get in there and defeat ISIS and get Syria rebuilt.” Concerted Effort Needed: “What we need is a concerted effort on the part of many countries to get behind a practice of a strategy here to get rid of Bashar al-Assad, solve this civil war inside Syria, defeat ISIS and get Syria started on the long journey of being rebuilt. We have to solve this and get these people back home.” ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds Confirmation Of Judge Neil Gorsuch To Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch as the next Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court: “Judge Gorsuch is an unwavering supporter of the United States Constitution, and the best person to fill the Supreme Court vacancy left by Justice Antonin Scalia,” said Senator Perdue. “I was honored and proud to vote to confirm Judge Gorsuch, and I am certain he will continue to show remarkable leadership, integrity, and evenhandedness as our next Associate Justice to the Supreme Court.” Background: Watch Senator Perdue’s floor speech and previous speech in support of Judge Gorsuch. Share Georgians’ wide spread support across the state for Judge Gorsuch. Read Senator Perdue & Isakson’s opinion piece on the Supreme Court in the Macon Telegraph. ###
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On U.S. Airstrikes In Syria WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, comments on U.S. military airstrikes in Syria: “Assad is a tyrant and his chemical weapon attack against innocent civilians this week was beyond inhumane. This will not be tolerated. After six years of inaction by the Obama Administration, I am glad to see that President Trump is willing to stand up for these innocent victims and stop those responsible for this violence. I commend our brave servicewomen and men who are carrying out this vital mission tonight.” ###
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Senator David Perdue Floor Speech On Confirming Judge Gorsuch “Never before in United States history has a purely partisan filibuster killed a Supreme Court nomination.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke in support of Judge Neil Gorsuch during debate of his confirmation to be the next Associate Justice on the United States Supreme Court: Click here to watch or click on the image below. Never Before: Never before in United States history has a purely partisan filibuster killed a Supreme Court nomination. Never before, in the history of our country, has a partisan filibuster killed a District Judge nomination. Never before, and until 2003, never before had a partisan filibuster killed a Circuit Judge nomination. No 60-Vote Standard: I’d also like to point out that there is no longstanding rule or tradition that a Supreme Court nominee must obtain 60 votes to be confirmed. Justice Clarence Thomas was confirmed by a narrow 52-48 margin. Even though a single senator could have required 60 votes to invoke cloture, none did. Likewise, Justice Samuel Alito was confirmed by a 58-42 margin. Again, no senator required 60 votes to invoke cloture. Neither of those nominees were filibustered to death. They got an up or down vote. No Prior Democratic Opposition: In 2006, Judge Gorsuch was confirmed to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals by a voice vote, in this body, with no opposition. Again, no opposition right here in the Senate. Then-Senator Biden did not object. Then-Senator Reid did not object. Then-Senator Clinton did not object. Then-Senator Obama did not object. Twelve current members of this body – including the current Senior Senator from New York, the Senior Senator from Illinois, the Senior Senator from California—did not object to Judge Gorsuch’s back in 2006. It’s a simple fact: they had the opportunity to raise an objection, and they did not. This Is What Creates Gridlock: What’s at issue here is nothing but pure, unadulterated politics. This is exactly why I ran for the United States Senate, having never been involved in politics. This is what makes people back home very nervous about the gridlock in this body. This is why President Trump still cannot meet with his full Cabinet, today, months after he was sworn in as our President. This is the very cause of gridlock that, I believe, is causing the dysfunction here in Washington. Even Mainstream Media Agrees: Recently, the USA Today Editorial Board wrote, “Gorsuch’s credentials are impeccable,” and that, “he might well show the independence the nation needs at this moment in its history.” The Washington Post Editorial Board wrote, “We are likely to disagree with Mr. Gorsuch on a variety of major legal questions. That is different from saying he is unfit to serve.” The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board wrote, “No one can replace Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court, but President Trump has made an excellent attempt by nominating appellate Judge Neil Gorsuch as the ninth Justice.” If Not Gorsuch, Then Who?: If we can’t confirm this individual, who is absolutely in the middle of the profile agreed to by past Democrats and Republicans alike, who in the world will we ever be able to confirm? Seriously. Given that, if we can’t get together on this individual, who is in the mainstream, in the middle of the profile, how in the world are we ever going to save Social Security, Medicare, and all of the other critical issues that are before this body. Bipartisan compromise is what this body was built on. I call on my colleagues to put self-interest, and even party-interest, aside for the nation’s interest. Confirming Justice Gorsuch: I’m so excited that tomorrow we will confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch as the next Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court. ###
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Democrats Attempt To Block Vote On Judge Gorsuch WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) commented on Senate Democrats attempt to block debate and an up-or-down vote on the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch: “Judge Gorsuch is a principled jurist who is steadfast in his commitment to defending the Constitution. Democrats have agreed, and they confirmed Judge Gorsuch without objection in 2006. That’s why it is ridiculous Democrats today put self-interest and party-interest ahead of the nation’s interest. Republicans this year have said all along we’ll do what it takes to get Judge Gorsuch the up-or-down vote he deserves, and next week he will be an Associate Justice on the United States Supreme Court.”
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Georgians Urge Vote On Supreme Court Nominee, Judge Gorsuch WASHINGTON, D.C. – Several Georgia editorial boards have urged the U.S. Senate to vote on President Trump’s nominee to the United States Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch. Here’s what they are saying: "But the tit-for-tat politics that have become standard operating procedure inside the Beltway are heading to a new level, one that may, once again, prove how short-sided our elected leaders can be. No nominee selected by President Trump is going to make liberals happy, just as no nominee made by Obama was going to satisfy conservatives last year.” (Editorial: A question of who will blink, 3/24/17) “Everything the public has learned about Judge Gorsuch in the lead-up to and in the aftermath of his nomination Tuesday night points to a sterling record as a judge and an admirable, enviable personal life. We also love that he rejects judicial activism, saying that, ‘It is the role of judges to apply, not alter, the work of the people’s representatives. A judge who likes every outcome he reaches is very likely a bad judge,’” (Bottom Line: Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, 2/1/17) “If a man of Neil Gorsuch’s stature, knowledge, legal acumen and temperament can’t get eight Democrat votes, in order to reach 60, statesmanship will be dead for certain – if it’s not already… There is absolutely nothing objectionable about Judge Neil Gorsuch, and an endless amount of virtuous qualities to endorse him. If he can’t get a fair shake, who can?” (Time to end the filibuster?, 4/2/17) “President Donald Trump has done exactly what he promised to do with his first Supreme Court nomination, name a well-qualified, respected mainstream conservative to the fill the vacancy left by the death of Antonin Scalia last year... Gorsuch is a solid choice. We urge the Senate to confirm him, and we hope that President Trump continues to nominate equally worthy judicial candidates.” (Editorial: Trump makes a good choice, 2/1/17) “Democrats need to get over the shameful treatment Judge Merrick received and help their Republican colleagues do their job. They should delve deeply into Judge Gorsuch’s record and question him on issues of importance and then decide whether he’s worthy of the Supreme Court. The country needs a full Supreme Court. And we need one with sufficient backbone to stand up for the rule of law, whatever the political pressures of the day.” (Editorial: Trump’s Supreme Court pick - Confirm Judge Gorsuch, 2/2/17) Background: Senator Perdue praised Judge Gorsuch’s nomination and was in attendance for the White House announcement on January 31. After meeting with Judge Neil Gorsuch on February 10, Senator Perdue wrote an op-ed to encourage support for his nomination. The Senate Judiciary Committee approved Judge Gorsuch’s nomination yesterday, April 3, and a full Senate vote is expected this week. Senator Perdue has urged Democrats to not filibuster this critical appointment and allow Judge Gorsuch the up-or-down vote he deserves. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Swift Response To I-85 Bridge Collapse In Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today commented on the I-85 bridge collapse in Georgia and the ongoing recovery efforts: “We appreciate the swift action taken by Governor Deal and our state officials, local first responders and community volunteers during this very difficult disruption,” said Senator Isakson. “In addition, President Trump and his administration stepped in immediately to offer assistance to Georgia and help make sure initial recovery efforts were able to get underway as quickly as possible. As federal partners, Senator Perdue and I continue to stand ready to help expedite efforts to ensure a quick and successful long term recovery.” “Georgians stepped up to the plate and immediately responded to the devastating bridge collapse we witnessed last week,” said Senator Perdue. “From Governor Deal to our brave first responders and local leaders, there is no doubt our state’s swift action saved lives in this situation. President Trump and his team also took action to make federal support available to Georgia immediately. We are all hands on deck to expedite any regulatory requirements and we stand shoulder to shoulder to make sure we get Georgians traveling safely again as fast as humanly possible.” The Georgia Department of Transportation has released the following information on road closures and alternative routes for motorists: I-85 is closed from I-75/Brookwood split to the North Druid Hills Exit. Motorists traveling northbound on I-85 from the southside of Atlanta will be diverted to northbound I-75 at Brookwood near 17th Street. Motorists traveling southbound on I-85 north of Atlanta will be diverted to northbound on SR400. Motorists traveling southbound on SR400 from north of Atlanta will be diverted at Sidney Marcus Exit. Motorists are encouraged to utilize their favorite wayfinding app to help navigate to their destinations.
04.03.2017	04.03.17 Senator David Perdue: Pentagon’s 148-Day Hiring Process Impacting Military WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, last week asked the Air Force about the Pentagon’s bureaucratic 148-day hiring process for civilians and the negative impact it is having on the military’s ability to on-board qualified candidates. Click here to watch the exchange or click on the image below. Senator Perdue: Sir, when you’re identifying and retaining somebody, and this is true in business as well as military, finding somebody and retaining are two different things. Lieutenant General Levy: Yes, sir. Senator Perdue: You find somebody, if it takes you 148 to on-board them, you lose a lot of candidates during that process. Lieutenant General Levy: Yes, sir. Senator Perdue: So, you're perpetually finding new candidates to start another clock of 148 days. Lieutenant General Levy: Yes, sir. Senator Perdue: And that's a disaster waiting to happen. Lieutenant General Levy: It's very difficult to close that circle. Senator Perdue: So, I will tell you, in business, to hire these people today is 30 to 45 days tops – tops. 90 days for a CEO, someone at your level in business today. If I started to search as a board member, it'd be 90 days. If I didn't have an answer in 90 days, I'd be after somebody's job. This is how far out [our government is] in terms of being competitive. View Senator Perdue’s full remarks in the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support hearing here. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds Agriculture Committee Confirmation Of Governor Perdue Ag Nomination Advances To Full Senate Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Agriculture Committee’s vote of support for his first cousin, former Georgia Governor, George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III, to be the next U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. “As I’ve said since the night of his nomination, Sonny is the most qualified person to be the Secretary of Agriculture," said Senator Perdue. “I am pleased to see such broad bipartisan support from the members of the Agriculture Committee.” “Given my relationship to the Governor, please let the record show I was present but declined to participate, and I look forward to the Senate confirmation of Governor Perdue," said Senator Perdue during the committee meeting. The Senate Agriculture Committee confirmed Governor Perdue today by voice vote. Governor Perdue now awaits a confirmation vote before the full Senate. ###
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Senator David Perdue Urges Vote On Supreme Court Nominee “Judge Neil Gorsuch’s record of service lives up to the highest standards for a federal judge.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke in support of Supreme Court nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch and urged Democrats to not filibuster this critical appointment. Click here to watch or on the photo below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak about one of the greatest honors and privileges we enjoy here in the United States Senate. As outlined in Article II, Section II of the Constitution, one of the real honors of serving here in the United States Senate is the opportunity to offer advice and consent for nominees to the United States Supreme Court. This body has historically treated it in such a solemn manner, that in over 230 years of our history, no nominee to the United States Supreme Court has ever been denied a seat through the use of a partisan filibuster. Unfortunately right now, colleagues from the other side of the aisle are threatening that very precedent. As I said on the floor earlier this year, President Donald Trump promised the American people he would nominate an unwavering supporter of the Constitution to fill the vacancy left by the late Justice Scalia. President Trump has kept this promise. He has nominated somebody who was actually confirmed in the United States Senate, not that long ago, by a voice vote by members who are still here in the United States Senate—many of them. This was a nomination to the 10th Circuit. A role that Judge Gorsuch, the nominee, filled with great honor and much distinction. Judge Neil Gorsuch’s record of service lives up to the highest standards for a federal judge. His academic and legal records are impeccable. He has demonstrated a keen understanding and appreciation for the rule of law. He spoke so articulately for hour after hour in interrogation. Most importantly, Judge Gorsuch has repeatedly demonstrated his commitment to the Constitution, and to our Founding Principles of economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. His testimony last week before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee was masterful. It absolutely convinced me he is the best man for this job. Judge Gorsuch listened to questions carefully, responded thoughtfully, and gave an indication into his own demeanor that he would use in the United States Supreme Court. Over and over, he illustrated the ability to show a balance of judgement, which is what we look for in a lifetime appointment like this. He made it abundantly clear that the role of the Judicial Branch is to interpret, not to make law, but to interpret the law. In my own individual meeting with Judge Gorsuch, these same qualities stood out. I was very impressed with his disarming nature, and the ability to talk about issues without necessarily showing bias of his own opinion. Because of all of this, I know he will serve as a justice in the mold of Justice Scalia. That is as a balanced judiciary member. I should also point out that this is not a partisan viewpoint. Both conservatives and liberals have come out in support of Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation since his nomination. Neal Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general under former President Obama, has described Judge Gorsuch as ‘an extraordinary judge and man.’ The American Bar Association, which many members of this body hold as a gold standard for judicial nominees, actually gave Judge Gorsuch its highest rating. Something they don’t do very often. It did so unanimously, by the way. Those who know Judge Gorsuch best – regardless of their political persuasion – have offered ample praise and abiding respect for this well-qualified nominee. If confirmed, I have full faith that Judge Gorsuch’s rulings will be just and rooted in the letter of the law. This nomination and confirmation, right now, comes at a time in the history of this republic in which it is absolutely crucial we have a balanced jurist as the ninth member of the Supreme Court. Jonathan Turley, a Constitutional law professor at George Washington University, says the Obama Administration has created a constitutional crisis that the likes of which our country has never seen. Professor Turley talks about how President Obama has shown future Presidents a new precedent of how to run the government without Congress by blocking the Senate, and actually creating the fourth arm of government, the regulators. I think this is a time in the history of our republic that we have to reestablish the balance between the three powers. We have to have a jurist who will bring a balanced view and represent all Americans on the United States Supreme Court. I’m proud to have the opportunity to support this nominee. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to put partisan interests aside, to put the best interest of the country first, and to confirm Neil Gorsuch as the next Justice to the Supreme Court.” ###
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Augusta University President, Dr. Brooks Keel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today met with Augusta University President, Dr. Brooks A. Keel: "Dr. Keel and his team at Augusta University are committed to preparing their students for the real world,” said Senator Perdue. “The university’s research center develops courses to meet the needs of our country’s cybersecurity workforce, and has created impressive programs to equip students with the tools they need to be successful. I fully support Augusta University’s critical partnerships with our state, the Department of Defense, and the NSA, and look forward to working together in the coming years." ###
03.28.2017	03.28.17 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s Clean Power Plan Roll Back WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) applauds President Trump for dismantling Obama-era regulations on coal-fired power plants: “Under his watch, President Obama tried to kill the coal industry and, in doing so, disrupted several key industries integral to our economic growth. This is not the case anymore. President Trump has said job one is getting our economy going and he has made it a priority to champion American workers. From approving the Keystone Pipeline to eliminating this regressive energy tax, it’s great to see a President prioritizing our energy independence instead of a political agenda.” Senator Perdue originally denounced the energy tax when it was announced in August 2015 and highlighted the impact it would have on coal-fired power plants. Senator Perdue co-sponsored two resolutions of disapproval in October 2015 that would stop the EPA from implementing these harmful regulations. The Senate passed both resolutions but President Obama vetoed these efforts. ###
03.28.2017	03.28.17 Senators Send Letter to Treasury Secretary Mnuchin Urging End to Financial Stability Oversight Council’s (FSOC) 'Too Big To Fail' Policies WASHINGTON, DC – Today Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) and nine of his colleagues on the Senate Banking Committee sent a letter to Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin expressing strong support for the Department of the Treasury to use all tools available to end the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s (FSOC) 'Too Big To Fail' policies and to ensure taxpayers are not responsible for any new bailouts. Among its many flaws, Dodd-Frank enshrined 'Too Big To Fail' as an official policy by creating a Federal council to designate nonbanks as "systemically important financial institutions". These designations offer large firms implicit taxpayer backing for future bailouts and result in massive new regulatory costs. FSOC's recent designation of a nonbank was overturned by a Federal judge for being arbitrary and capricious. In addition to Senator Scott, Senators Tom Cotton (R-AK), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Mike Rounds (R-SD), John Kennedy (R-LA), Ben Sasse (R-NE), David Perdue (R-GA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) also signed the letter. The Senators expressed concern that the inconsistent practices currently used by the FSOC result in burdensome, unnecessary regulatory costs that ultimately make American companies less competitive around the world. The full text of the letter is below. Additionally, a PDF of the letter can be found here. The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Secretary Mnuchin, We write in strong support of President Trump’s Executive Order setting core principles for regulating the United States financial system. As part of your review and report on the existing laws, regulations, guidance and government policies “that inhibit Federal regulation of the United States financial system in a manner consistent with the Core Principles,” we hope that you will review the policies and procedures underlying the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s (FSOC) determination that a nonbank financial company shall be subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and subject to enhanced prudential standards. The FSOC’s process for designating non-bank systemically important financial institutions lacks transparency and accountability, insufficiently tracks data, and does not have a consistent methodology for determinations. Consequently, the designation process has created substantial new regulatory costs while putting taxpayers on the hook for any future bailout to these firms. It frustrates the ability of American companies to be competitive with foreign firms, while thwarting economic growth. Please know you have our strong support for using all the tools available as Secretary of Treasury to end ‘Too Big To Fail’ and ensure that hard-working Americans are not responsible for any new bailouts. Sincerely, Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL) Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD) Senator John Kennedy (R-LA) Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) Senator David Perdue (R-GA) Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) ###
03.24.2017	03.24.17 Senator David Perdue On Keystone Pipeline Permit Approval WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) comments on the Keystone Pipeline permit: “It’s encouraging to see President Trump make building the Keystone Pipeline a priority. This is especially encouraging given that President Obama vetoed the project even when it had support from Democrats and Republicans. President Trump has said job one is getting our economy going, and this approval is a perfect example of the President getting results.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.23.2017	03.23.17 Senator David Perdue On Confirmation Of Ambassador To Israel, David Friedman WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm David Friedman as the U.S. Ambassador to Israel. “David Friedman has the skills and experience to represent the United States in one of the most complex regions in the world. Furthermore, he has assured us it will be his priority to reassure our ally that the Obama Administration’s abandonment of Israel at the United Nations will not stand. I look forward to working with Ambassador Friedman and the Trump Administration to strengthen our longtime relationship with our critical ally, Israel.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.23.2017	03.23.17 Senator David Perdue Opening Statement For Governor Sonny Perdue’s Agriculture Nomination Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, spoke in support of his first cousin, former Georgia Governor George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III, during his confirmation hearing to be the next U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. Click here to watch the opening statement or the photo below. Transcript: “As it has been stated, Governor Perdue and I are first cousins. We grew up together. We have a strong family. It is an extended family. I’ve known this man all of my life. I can think of no one in the United States more qualified to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. “In Joshua, it calls us to be strong and courageous. I know this man to be both strong and courageous. Today, he is going to answer all of your questions and the only thing I can say to him is, good luck, cuz.” ###
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Senator David Perdue Highlights President Trump’s First 50 Days WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined the “Halftime Report” hosted by The Washington Post to discuss President Trump’s policy priorities during his first 50 days in office. Setting Priorities: “Job one is growing the economy. Obamacare is a campaign promise and one of the first priorities in the agenda, but you’ve also got to pull back on regulations…The Senate is using Congressional Review Acts, along with the House, to undo some of the rules that were put in place late last year. The tax issue will be another big one, and then don’t forget, the Supreme Court nominee that’s going through hearings today.” Solving Health Care: “Normally in business, you look at your alternatives. People bring in two different viewpoints about alternatives. There’s a third option, and that is to do nothing. In my view, doing nothing about health care is catastrophic…We only have one carrier in 96 of 159 counties in Georgia, and right now they’re losing money big time. If you do nothing, it will collapse.” Outsider Approach: “President Trump is a business guy. He’s results oriented. He is engaging, and he listens…We are at a point in time in our history where we need somebody in the White House that can break some eggs, and actually help Congress move in a bipartisan way to get some things done.” Working With Congress: “Both the President and Vice President are having dinner almost every night with Members of Congress one-on-one and in small groups, trying to listen to concerns, not just about health care but about tax.” Probation Period, Not Mandate: “What’s at risk here is that this is a two-year probation period, not a mandate, and some members of Congress, quite frankly, haven’t got that message yet. I’m not worried about President Trump adjusting to Washington, I’m worried about Washington adjusting to him.” Shift In Political Axis: “In the past, politics were measured on the axis of liberal versus conservative. That flipped in this presidential election and in my race in 2014. Now, there’s a political, empowered class—the people in the bubble— and everybody else. People in America are very dissatisfied with a lack of results in Washington.” ###
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Bipartisan Group Of Senators Introduce Legislation To Strengthen U.S.-Israel Economic Partnership WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Jon Tester (D-MT) today introduced bipartisan legislation to recognize the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and support new agreements for collaboration across a variety of sectors within the technology sphere. Since the signing of the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Agreement, Israel has become one of our country’s most dynamic economic collaborators in the Middle East and North Africa. Today, individual states are partnering with Israel to collaborate on life-changing medical breakthroughs and clean energy technology. This legislation supports and improves on these partnerships. “Israel is a hub for innovation, and our strong alliance has paved the way for great economic opportunities,” said Senator Perdue. “We will continue working with Prime Minister Netanyahu to explore new areas for collaboration across the economic spectrum.” “I am proud to cosponsor a resolution that commemorates the strong economic ties between the United States and Israel and highlights opportunities for increased partnerships in fields such as agriculture, cybersecurity, and medicine,” said Senator Coons. “I continue to be impressed with the entrepreneurial spirit of the Israeli people and will work with my colleagues to counter the economic isolation of Israel.” “The U.S.-Israel alliance not only plays an important role to ensure peace and stability across the globe, but also serves both countries economic interests,” said Senator Gardner. “As the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel highlights the benefits of a free society. Strong economic ties between our two nations has led to a partnership that both countries can be proud of, and as we look toward the future, we must continue to find ways we can work together to develop new technologies that will change the world.” “Israel is one of our strongest allies in the world and our economic partnership only strengthens this alliance,” said Senator Tester. “I look forward to expanding our diplomatic and economic relationship with Israel for decades to come.” The senators were joined by U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) in introducing S. Res. 90 which seeks to: (1) affirm the robustness of the economic relationship; (2) recognize that science and technology innovation present new frontiers for economic cooperation; (3) encourage the Administration to expand and regularize existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel; and (4) support the exploration of new agreements, including in the fields of energy, water, agriculture, medicine, neurotechnology and cybersecurity. U.S. Congressmen Ted Lieu (D-CA-33) and Ted Poe (R-TX-02) today introduced companion legislation to S. Res. 90 in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s Budget Blueprint “President Trump has years of experience managing large budgets and streamlining operations to improve efficiency.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Budget Committee, commented on President Trump’s budget blueprint: “Over the past 16 years, government spending exploded from 2.4 trillion to 3.9 trillion in constant dollars. For this $1.5 trillion in new spending, what did the American people get? A debt crisis, a global security crisis, and a government so overgrown that our national priorities were put on the backburner. “President Trump has years of experience managing large budgets and streamlining operations to improve efficiency. Like any major turnaround, this initial budget blueprint shows us he is keeping his promises. He has applied his outsider approach to our government’s overrun budget and reallocated money to meet our country’s most pressing needs—national security, economic growth, and restoring an accountable government. This is a welcome, and needed, change. “We cannot, however, ignore that the national debt is nearly $20 trillion. Since 1974, Congress has only fully funded the government four times under its current budget process, and instead abused continuing resolutions as a temporary fix that leads to more spending. Something must be done to stop this nonsense going forward. With President Trump in office, we can start to make some real changes that will take us in the right direction.” ###
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Effort To Revamp Cybersecurity Scholarship Supports students pursing cybersecurity degrees at seven Georgia universities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), along with U.S. Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Mike Rounds (R-SD), last week introduced the bipartisan DoD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 to reinvigorate an existing DoD scholarship program for students pursuing degrees in cybersecurity fields who commit to working in a cybersecurity position at DoD upon graduation. “In the face of ever-evolving attacks from our adversaries, we must strengthen our cyber defense capabilities and support cybersecurity education efforts,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity. “I’m proud Georgia is on the front lines of training the next generation of cybersecurity experts and I will continue working to expand on cybersecurity innovation.” The DoD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 would expand scholarships to students pursuing associate’s degrees at several community colleges and 2-year program students who attend institutions designated by the NSA and DHS as Centers of Academic Excellence (CAEs), which include the following Georgia universities: Armstrong State University, Augusta University, Columbus State University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Kennesaw State University, Middle Georgia State University, and University of North Georgia. Georgia Universities Applauded Senator Perdue’s Action: “This scholarship presents opportunities for all involved, helping to meet the Department of Defense's demand for cyber professionals while assisting students with the rising cost of education,” said Dr. Linda M. Bleicken, President of Armstrong State University. “As a Center of Academic Excellence located near a major military installation, we are confident that this incentive will attract more transitioning service members, veterans, and military family members – exactly the type of talent that is needed to protect the vital interests of our nation.” “We applaud Senator Perdue for supporting this bipartisan bill and for his efforts to improve cybersecurity workforce development through expanded educational opportunities,” said Dr. Brooks A. Keel, President of Augusta University. “There is a global urgency to develop a cybersecurity workforce, with expected sector growth estimated at 20 percent during the next decade. Augusta University’s Cyber Institute is a designated center of academic excellence for cybersecurity defense education. We are grateful for Senator Perdue’s support of a scholarship program that will empower students to consider this career path with less worry of educational debt and help universities to provide more high-impact cybersecurity leaders to the DOD workforce.” “We are delighted to hear about any efforts that will make it easier for students to become proficient in cybersecurity, a popular academic program that simply cannot keep up with the workforce demands,” said Dr. Chris Markwood, President of Columbus State University. “Here at Columbus State University, we are putting significant efforts – including private local investments from companies such as TSYS -- into training students who can immediately help Fort Benning and our local Fortune 500 financial institutions.” “New funding for DoD scholarships in cybersecurity is exciting for Kennesaw State and the timing is perfect,” said Dr. Traci Carte, Interim Executive Director of the Institute for Cybersecurity Workforce Development at Kennesaw State University. “For over 15 years, we’ve been committed to cybersecurity education. Last fall, KSU added to its portfolio an Institute on Cybersecurity Workforce Development and, in February, we had a new eMajor, BS in Cybersecurity, approved. A $1.5 million shortfall in cybersecurity trained workers is being projected by 2020 and recent data shows that more than 200,000 cybersecurity jobs in the U.S. are unfilled. It is crucial for the State of Georgia to attack this challenge head on. Incenting and supporting students through scholarships is a great way to support these efforts.” “As a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education, Middle Georgia State University is carefully following the progress of the DoD Cyber Scholarship Program Act,” said Dr. Alex Koohang, Dean of the School of Information Technology at Middle Georgia State University. “We stand ready to educate current and future generations of college students to take on roles defending our nation against digital threats, both foreign and domestic. The DoD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 could allow more students to benefit from our faculty’s knowledge and experience in preparation for careers supporting the security of our nation’s information infrastructure.” “The DoD Cyber Scholarship Program is crucial to expanding access to cyber degree pathways, especially among rural, minority, and economically disadvantaged student groups,” said Dr. Bryson R. Payne, Director of the Center for Cyber Operations Education at the University of North Georgia. “An associate, bachelors, or advanced degree in cyber can change not just a student's future, it can open up opportunity for entire families and communities. And, scholarship-for-service programs are a key factor in filling the workforce gap in government and public sector cyber job openings.” ###
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Senator David Perdue Talks Debt & Rising Interest Rates “This game is well past the tipping point of being a crisis. We have got to get serious about dealing with our long-term debt.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today talked with CNBC and Bloomberg today about solving our debt crisis and growing the economy. Click here to watch CNBC or click here to watch Bloomberg. CNBC Highlights: Turning Around The Economy: “What we have seen so far is the bond market and indeed the stock market is pricing in growth. They’re anticipating what this president is proposing will actually work. Pull back on regulation, change this archaic tax code, lower the corporate rate, get rid of some of the corporate welfare, and eliminate this repatriation tax. Look, business knows that is going to work, consumer confidence is ebbing up ever so slightly right now. We're on the cusp of a real turnaround.” Setting The Right Priorities: “I believe health care and taxes are the two issues of the day that will get the economy going, in addition to pulling regulations back. What we’ve got to do in the Senate is put self-interest aside and focus on the national interest.” Fixing The Broken Budget Process: “The budget process is broken. Since 1974, we’ve only funded the government four times under this process. In the last 42 years, we’ve only passed an average of two and half appropriations bills each year.” Bloomberg Highlights: Addressing The Debt Ceiling: “We are not going to fall down on the good faith and credit of the United States government, we are going to pay our debts. I don’t see the debt limit itself as the problem, the budget process is our problem and the debt is our problem.” Rising Interest Rates: “We’re talking about potential interest rate hikes today by the Fed. Every quarter point that we’ve seen in the last year is about $50 billion of new interest…If the Fed goes up again today, we’ll have 3 quarter point increases in the last 15 months, which is upwards of $150 billion of interest we are responsible for. This game is well past the tipping point of being a crisis. We have got to get serious about dealing with our long-term debt.” Changing Our Tax Code: “The only reason we’re talking about the so-called border adjustment tax is in order to pay for the real tax changes that will make a difference in our economy. The corporate tax reduction, the elimination of the repatriation tax, and changing the individual tax rates to be much more meaningful. Those are things that will grow the economy. The border adjustment tax is regressive, hammers low- and middle-income consumers, and it does not foster growth. What it does do is grow central governments.” Job One Is Growing The Economy: “The President has laid out a 100-day plan that starts with solving this long-term problem of debt. Job one is growing the economy…President Donald Trump is the right guy at the right time to get us turned back in the right direction of innovation, capital formation, and the rule of law that will stimulate this economy.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On National Security Advisor, Lieutenant General McMaster WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after voting to approve a change of billet for National Security Advisor, Lieutenant General Herbert R. McMaster, Jr., so he can remain on active duty: “It’s fantastic to see a former Commanding General of Fort Benning serve our country as President Trump’s National Security Advisor. Lieutenant General McMaster has a proven track record and a deep understanding of this global security crisis we are dealing with today. He is a great addition to President Trump’s incredibly capable and qualified team, and I look forward to working with him.” ###
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Senator David Perdue On Confirmation Of Director Of National Intelligence, Dan Coats WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) voted to confirm former Senator Dan Coats (R-IN) as the Director of National Intelligence: “As an Army veteran, former U.S. Ambassador, and former member of the U.S. Senate Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, Senator Coats is extremely qualified to lead our nation's intelligence efforts. In his new role as the Director of National Intelligence, I am confident that Senator Coats will be a trustworthy leader for our country. I look forward to working with Senator Coats and President Trump to strengthen our national security.” ###
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Senator David Perdue: Sweeping CFPB Prepaid Card Rule Should Still Be Scrapped WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) commented on the delay of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) Prepaid Card Rule, which would impact millions of consumers and stifle growth in the electronic payment marketplace: “The CFPB continues to be a rogue agency,” said Senator David Perdue. “From its initial stages, this rule was shortsighted and so sweeping that it would have stifled innovation in a growing marketplace millions of consumers rely on. Ultimately, the CFPB should scrap this rule altogether and I will continue working to protect consumers.” The CFPB announced this delay shortly after Senator Perdue and Congressman Roger Williams (R-TX-25) introduced legislation that would nullify the Prepaid Card Rule because of its expansive scope and one-size-fits-all model on a diverse array of payment methods. Senator Perdue is committed to bringing the CFPB under Congressional oversight and stopping this overreaching rule from being implemented. The Financial Services Roundtable, which represents prepaid card issuers and digital payment processers like Visa, Common Bancshares Inc., Citi, and Capital One, praised Senator Perdue’s efforts to nullify the sweeping prepaid card rule: “Prepaid cards are an important product offering that millions of consumers use to enhance their financial well-being,” said Financial Services Roundtable. “The Bureau’s rule on prepaid cards, while well-intentioned, is overly prescriptive and attempts to homogenize products in a way that blunts innovation and product differentiation, limiting choices for consumers. Again, thank you for your work on the resolution and your efforts to facilitate a strong prepaid marketplace.” ###
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Senators Perdue, Peters Reintroduce No Hero Left Untreated Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Gary Peters (D-MI) have reintroduced the No Hero Left Untreated Act to enhance medical care for America’s heroes. The bill is companion legislation to Congressman Steve Knight’s No Hero Left Untreated Act, which was reintroduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on February 16, 2017. “We must honor and care for the women and men who have courageously served our country,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Armed Services Committee. “This pilot program would provide our veterans with access to additional medical treatment options for neurological injuries and has earned the support of several veterans organizations. I am proud to work alongside Senator Peters to increase access to innovative therapy options and give our veterans the care they deserve.” “Veterans suffering from the devastating effects of PTSD, traumatic brain injury and military sexual trauma deserve to have the best, most cutting-edge treatment available,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “Incorporating innovative new treatment options like Magnetic e-Resonance Therapy technology into VA medical centers has the potential to improve treatment for veterans and create meaningful change in their lives.” The No Hero Left Untreated Act would establish a pilot program at two medical centers within the VA network and enroll up to 50 veterans in Magnetic EEG/ECG-Guided Resonance Therapy (MeRT) for a one-year period. This is an individualized non-pharmaceutical, non-invasive neuromodulation procedure that applies magnetic stimulation to help facilitate neurorestoration of proper brain function. Over 400 veterans treated with MeRT have reported a marked improvement in symptoms associated with PTSD, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction. The bill has earned the support of American Legion, AMVETS, Association of the United States Navy, U.S. Special Operations Command, Blue Star Families, Vietnam Veterans of America, Veterans Advantage, 12th Calvary Regiment Association, Patriot Project, Rally Point 6, SEALink Inc., Association of Mature American Citizens, Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs West Care, Orange County Sheriffs’ Department, and Orange County Fire Authority. ###
03.08.2017	03.08.17 Senator Perdue & Congressman Collins Take Action To Improve Georgia National Forest WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and Congressman Doug Collins (R-GA-09) today introduced legislation to improve management of the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest by creating a more cohesive park boundary, which would also improve opportunities for hunting, fishing, and hiking. “The Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest is an important economic generator,” said Senator David Perdue, a member of the Agriculture Committee. “These updated park boundaries will make the land more manageable for our park rangers and improve opportunities for hunting, fishing, and hiking within the forest. Equally as important, a cohesive park boundary and management area is a more efficient use of taxpayer money.” “The Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest Land Adjustment Act represents a commonsense approach to better conserve federal forest lands in northeast Georgia while also eliminating federal waste and providing more recreation opportunities for hunters, anglers, and outdoor enthusiasts,” said Congressman Doug Collins. “I’m proud to reintroduce this legislation with Senator David Perdue to ensure that our beautiful natural resources—including the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest—can better be enjoyed by Georgians.” Senator Perdue and Congressman Collins were joined by U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Congressmen Rick Allen (R-GA-12), Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03), and Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11) in this effort, which has earned praise from The Nature Conservancy. “Updating the boundaries of the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest will improve the efficiency of management and is a win for the community, a win for visitors and a win for taxpayers,” said Senator Johnny Isakson. “I’m pleased to once again support these efforts.” “Senator Perdue and Representative Collins clearly understand that this legislation will allow the U.S. Forest Service, in collaboration with partners like The Nature Conservancy and The Conservation Fund, to better steward northeast Georgia’s natural resources and provide more benefits to all Georgians,” said Deron Davis, Executive Director of The Nature Conservancy in Georgia. Background: Currently, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) owns a substantial number of small, isolated tracts of land disconnected from the core lands of the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest. Encroachment from growth and development has caused these tracts to lose their principle value for National Forest purposes, as they are outliers from the core forest block. This legislation outlines a solution, authorizing the sale of 30 isolated parcels identified as desired disposal by the USFS. All proceeds from land sales will go directly to USFS and may only be used to buy inholding properties of high-value for conservation, recreation, and management from sellers within the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest boundary. Additionally, selling isolated parcels puts this land back on county tax rolls and revenue generated can be used to buy inholdings from willing sellers. ###
03.08.2017	03.08.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue: Action Needed To Address Threats To Jewish Institutions In Georgia, Nationwide Join all 100 senators in a letter calling for enhanced security, continued vigilance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the recent threats against Jewish Community Centers and other Jewish organizations in Georgia and around the country, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday wrote to key national security leaders to request enhanced security and continued vigilance surrounding these threats to our national security. According to the Jewish Federation, the Atlanta Jewish Academy, the Marcus Jewish Community Center in Dunwoody and the Augusta Jewish Community Center have all received threats. Additionally, the Anti-Defamation League said its Atlanta office received a threat this week. In a letter signed by all 100 U.S. Senators, Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue called on Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director James Comey to provide specific plans that will be taken by the administration to protect these centers, which play a key role in Georgia’s communities, from the current threats of violence. In their letter, Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue thanked these departments for their ongoing efforts to address these matters and asked each to “inform us of the actions that your departments plan to take to address threats against these and other religious institutions.” “We are concerned that the number of incidents is accelerating and failure to address and deter these threats will place innocent people at risk and threaten the financial viability of JCCs, many of which are institutions in their communities,” the senators wrote. “We stand ready to work with you to ensure that these centers can continue to serve their communities free from violence and intimidation.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.06.2017	03.06.17 Senator David Perdue On Updated Executive Order “These updates underscore President Trump's intent to responsibly secure our country.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, commented on President Donald J. Trump’s updated executive order: “Since day one, President Trump has kept his promise to protect our country and keep all Americans safe. President Trump and his National Security Team have closely examined our vetting procedures for countries with ISIS strongholds and continue to take action to stop ISIS from exploiting our country's immigration system and refugee programs. They have made several updates to these efforts, including, allowing citizens from adequately vetted countries like Iraq to travel to the United States, and ensuring that people who have been granted green cards can travel to and from our country. These updates underscore President Trump's intent to responsibly secure our country and protect all Americans and refugees from our shared enemy, ISIS.” ###
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Senators Perdue, Peters Introduce Bill to Enhance Cyber Security Coordination Bill Helps State and Local Governments Combat Cyber Threats WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced they have introduced bipartisan legislation to help state and local governments combat cyber threats by increasing coordination with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The State and Local Cyber Protection Act requires DHS’s National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) to provide assistance and training for state, local, and tribal governments in preventing, preparing for, and responding to cyber threats. “In the face of ever-evolving attacks from our adversaries, we must strengthen our nation’s cyber defense capabilities which requires coordination across all levels of government,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Armed Services Committee. “This is key to combating the asymmetric threats we face on a daily basis. I’m proud Georgia is on the front lines of training the next generation of cyber warriors, and I will continue working with Senator Peters and my colleagues to expand on cyber security innovation and improve communication.” “Our nation is facing an ever-growing threat from increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks, and we are only as strong as our weakest link,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. “State and local governments face unique cybersecurity threats that can endanger critical infrastructure, as well as residents’ sensitive personal and financial data. This bipartisan legislation will help ensure every level of government has the necessary tools to protect their networks and respond to cyber-attacks.” According to the National Association of State Chief Information Officers (NASCIO), state governments have identified improving cybersecurity as a top information technology priority. However, state and local governments often lack the resources or technical expertise to defend their networks from cyber-attacks. Analysis from the Brookings Institute found that state and local governments vary widely in their abilities to budget sufficient resources and field the technical expertise necessary to respond to increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks. “We applaud Senators Gary Peters and David Perdue for introducing the State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2017,” said National Association of Counties Executive Director, Matthew Chase. “As county governments deploy modern technology to provide services to residents, it’s important that we have access to resources and expertise to address data breaches and cyber-attacks. Counties and states are also responsible for managing information that must be safeguarded for privacy and personal protection. The State and Local Cyber Protection Act helps to ensure that our nation’s counties can mitigate the risk of cyber threats.” The State and Local Cyber Protection Act would require the NCCIC to provide state and local governments with: Assistance, upon request, in identifying cyber vulnerabilities and appropriate security protections; Tools, policies, procedures, and other materials related to information security, and to work with state and local officials to coordinate effective implementation of these resources; Technical and operational assistance, upon request, to utilize technology in the analysis, continuous diagnosis and mitigation, and evaluation of cyber threats and responses; Assistance to develop policies and procedures consistent with industry best practices and international standards, including cybersecurity frameworks developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology; Technical assistance and cybersecurity training, upon request, to state and local personnel and fusion center analysts; and Privacy and civil liberties training as relates to cybersecurity, focusing on consistency with existing privacy laws and DHS policies, minimizing the retention and use of unnecessary information, and prompt removal of the personally identifiable information “unrelated” to a cyber threat. ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Discusses President Trump’s Bold Agenda For America WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recently spoke about President Trump’s renewed spirit of optimism on CNN’s Erin Burnett OutFront. Click here to watch or on the photo below. Trump’s Heart For America: “I was there last night and I have to say, what I saw last night is more like what I see in private. President Trump is a strong leader. He has a heart for America, that's why he's done this. What we saw last night, though, is a man who's really concerned about the future of our country and he laid out a great vision for that.” Solutions For Obamacare: “Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, the Trump Administration, the Senate and the House, staff and members, have been working on this for weeks and we're moving toward a bill that will pass the House and that the President will sign. That's what we're working for.” Tackling Our Debt Crisis: “My heart is to get after this debt crisis and President Trump talked about that last night. One of the steps in doing that is growing the economy, that’s job one…We have to get after parts that will solve this debt crisis over time, like saving Social Security and Medicare. That has to come after we have health care reform, regulatory reform and tax reform this year.” ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Senator David Perdue Stands Behind Attorney General Jeff Sessions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today reaffirmed his support for Attorney General Jeff Sessions on the Senate Floor. Click here or on the photo below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak in defense of a dear colleague of ours, who is now the Attorney General, Jeff Sessions. He is my friend, and more importantly, he is a former colleague of this very body. He’s a man of integrity. He is a man of principle. I trust him and I take him at his word. Furthermore, he has repeatedly said, just today, that he will in fact recuse himself, if and when it becomes appropriate. In my opinion, it is not appropriate right now. But, if it ever were to become appropriate, he has said that he would. I’ve never witnessed anything quite like this in my brief time in the United States Senate. The last two years have been very interesting, but never have I seen the hypocrisy that we see going on around this one issue. It is increasingly clear that the Minority Party is singularly focused on sabotaging this new administration at every turn. Today is no exception. They have exercised procedural rules in the Senate time and again beyond the intent of the Founders’ design in order to stop President Trump from even getting his team in place. Our President today, as we stand here in this well, cannot have a staff meeting because he doesn’t have all of his Cabinet members in place. As for the Cabinet members who have been confirmed, the Minority Party seems equally fixated on finding any red herring they can ultimately find to undermine the individual’s character. We have literally reached a point where members of this body are slandering former colleagues for having and taking the same opportunities afforded to them. This morning my colleague, the senior Senator from Missouri, tweeted that she had never, ever, met with or taken a call from the Russian Ambassador. But her own Twitter account proved that she has at least twice in the last four years. Thirty members, as a matter of fact, of this body met with the Russian Ambassador and ambassadors from other nations in 2015 for a sales pitch on President Obama’s deal with Iran. Many of them – including the senior senator from Missouri – were open supporters at that time of candidates in the Presidential race. In the process of this hypocrisy, the Minority Party is prohibiting us from taking action on legislation that would solve many of the problems that have manifested themselves over the previous eight years. Make no mistake, Russia is a traditional rival whose actions pose a definite threat to global security and even our security here at home. Their actions over the last eight years have helped destabilize Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and it was the inaction and refusal to lead of the past administration – a policy the Minority Party followed hook, line, and sinker – that created a power vacuum around the world and allowed this Russian resurgence. I have said this repeatedly, and I’m going to continue to do so. Until there is definite proof that Russians changed a single vote from Hillary Clinton to Donald Trump, I will be focused on one thing, and that is doing exactly what the American people sent us up here to do—and I encourage my colleagues to do the same—and that is not to engage in political theater for the sake of partisan politics, but working together to get America back to work.” ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Energy Secretary, Governor Rick Perry WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) voted to confirm former Texas Governor Rick Perry as Secretary of the Department of Energy: “Governor Perry is a long-time advocate of American energy independence and he will play a key role in President Trump’s plans to develop our nation’s many energy resources. Last Congress, President Obama vetoed the Keystone Pipeline, after Congress approved the project with a bipartisan majority in both chambers. President Trump is already translating his promises for increased American energy into results, and I will continue working with him and Secretary Perry to unleash our full energy potential.” ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Housing & Urban Development Secretary, Dr. Ben Carson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, voted to confirm Dr. Ben Carson as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: “Our nation’s cities and rural communities have very diverse housing needs and development requirements. When I met with Dr. Carson, we discussed the wide range of improvements for large cities like Atlanta and smaller cities like my hometown, Warner Robins. Dr. Carson is a very knowledgeable man with a sincere heart for humanity and we are fortunate to have him serve in this new capacity. I look forward to working with Dr. Carson to roll back government regulations impeding economic growth so we can bring positive change to America’s underserved communities.” ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Senator David Perdue Talks Obamacare After White House Visit “Last night, President Trump laid out a vision for America, and today was a follow-up to say it's time to get down to work.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) talked with Chuck Todd on MSNBC’s Meet the Press Daily after meeting with President Donald J. Trump at the White House earlier today. Click here to watch or on the photo below. Today’s Business Meeting At White House: “What we had today was a business meeting by the President of the United States telling us what his objectives were, what the mission was, what everybody's role was, and what he expected...Last night, President Trump laid out a vision for America, and today was a follow-up to say it's time to get down to work.” Trump Leading At Business Pace: “I'm very excited that we've got a guy who is leading right now and moving at a business-pace, not a government-pace. So we talked about health care, primarily, and it was an extremely encouraging conversation. He laid out his expectations very clearly.” Georgia Health Care Options Shrinking: “Right now in my home state, 96 counties out of 159 only have one insurance carrier. Costs are up dramatically, our deductibles are up dramatically, but more importantly, if this carrier pulls out of our state, people in 96 counties will not have any insurance carrier.” Obamacare Running Off The Rails: “Obamacare is about to run off the rails. This is an emergency situation in my opinion. We’ve got to act and act quickly to protect the people who need the protection the most…Again, we're looking for a solution to avoid the disaster that is Obamacare if and when it collapses." ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Senator David Perdue Talks Tax On CNBC And Bloomberg WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) reacts to President Donald J. Trump’s first joint address to Congress on CNBC’s Squawk Box and Bloomberg TV’s Daybreak. Click here to watch CNBC or click here to watch Bloomberg Daybreak. CNBC Highlights: Renewed Spirit Of Optimism: “We saw President Trump hitting his stride last night, laying out an optimistic vision for our country, telling Democrats and Republicans we’ve got to come together to solve these big issues that we all know exist…We've got early signs of increasing or improving consumer confidence. We also see CEO confidence improving right now. They're even talking about investing for the first time in a decade.” Making America Competitive Again: “Why would we want, on the burgeoning side of a new recovery, to put a tax theory to test in our economy. I think we need to let these tax changes go into place, the corporate tax rate will make us much more competitive, eliminate this repatriation tax, most every other country in the world has already done that, and simplify the individual tax code.” Improving American Trade: “What we have right now is an opportunity to level the playing field on the trade side. We can only go so far with tax changes. The border adjustment tax doesn't really create a level playing field. Reducing our corporate tax rate and eliminating the repatriation tax does that. The other thing I think we've got to do is give open access to other markets. The President talked about it last night.” Bloomberg Highlights: Congress Needs To Catch Up: “What I see right now is a White House moving at a business-pace, not at a government-pace, and I think you’re going to see that continue. What we need to do is get Congress to catch up. President Trump can't even have a cabinet meeting yet. We are going at the slowest pace of confirmations since George Washington was in office, so if we can speed that up, we can get executed a few more of the programs that he’s talked about.” Tackling Our Debt Crisis: “We've got to get the economy growing again to deal with the debt long-term. To do that, we’ve got to deal with our archaic tax structure, overburdening regulation environment and unleash our energy potential. Those are things the President has laid out as priorities, and I fully subscribe to that formula for growing our economy.” ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Senator David Perdue On Confirmation Of Congressman Ryan Zinke As Interior Secretary WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) voted to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Congressman Ryan Zinke (R-MT). “Congressman Zinke is a great choice to lead the Department of the Interior. Under his leadership, I have full confidence that America will unlock its full energy potential. Congressman Zinke’s experience and commitment to preserving our wildlife and natural resources make him uniquely qualified for the position. I was proud to vote to confirm his nomination today and look forward to working with him to protect our country’s valuable resources.” ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Senator David Perdue On President Trump’s First Address To Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress, reacts to President Donald J. Trump’s first joint address to Congress: “President Trump has hit the ground running and is keeping his promises to the American people. He has put the needs of Americans first and the results he’s already achieved have brought forward a renewed spirit of optimism in our country. It’s been encouraging to see President Trump start to get our government moving at more of a business-pace, rather than the usual Washington pace. “Look at the results. The economy today is on the precipice of a turnaround. The bond market is pricing in potential growth, consumer confidence is showing early signs of moving up, and even corporate leaders are beginning to talk about investing again after a decade of uncertainty and low growth. “Tonight, we heard President Trump outline his optimistic vision for America—one with more job opportunities, education choices, and economic mobility for everyone. This is what our country needs to become competitive again, and I am committed to helping him achieve these results for Georgians and the American people.” ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Georgia’s HBCU Leadership WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) to meet with Presidents from Clark Atlanta University, Fort Valley State University, Morehouse School of Medicine, Morehouse College, Savannah State University, and Spelman College. Click here to view the photos or on the image below. “It is very encouraging to see President Trump pledge his support for our country’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities mission. Our HBCUs play an important part in educating America’s next leaders, and this renewed collaboration between our HBCUs and the White House means a great deal for our communities in Georgia. I have the honor of representing 10 fantastic HBCUs in Georgia, and look forward to doing all I can to support this ongoing partnership.” ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds President Trump’s Action To Stop WOTUS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, responded to President Donald J. Trump’s executive order to reverse the Environmental Protection Agency’s ‘Waters of the US’ (WOTUS) rule: “President Trump’s action to roll back the EPA’s overreach is a step in the right direction to help Georgia’s farmers and agriculture industry. Overturning President Obama’s harmful WOTUS rule is a resounding victory for our state and for the entire country. The last thing farmers need is more bureaucracy and invasion of private property rights. “It should not be harder to eliminate a bureaucratic rule than it was to create it, but we finally have a President who is working to get Washington out of the way and off the land of Georgia’s farmers, businesses, ranchers, and landowners.” Last year, the Senate and House voted to roll back the WOTUS rule, but it was vetoed by President Obama. Additionally, Georgians in the agriculture community came together to send a message to Washington to protect our land and communities. ###
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Next U.S. Department Of Commerce Secretary, Wilbur Ross WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on the confirmation of the next U.S. Commerce Secretary, Wilbur Ross: “Both sides of the aisle can agree Wilbur Ross is a great choice to oversee our country’s trade and commerce. Mr. Ross has a track record of promoting job creation and will be a strong new voice to get our economy growing again. I congratulate Mr. Ross on his confirmation and look forward to working together to make America competitive again.” ###
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On President Trump’s Budget Blueprint WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s budget blueprint for federal agencies: “After my first two years in the Senate and after over 40 years in business, it’s clear Washington’s entire approach to budgeting is broken. Just look at the results, our country is nearly $20 trillion in debt. “Setting clear spending priorities is a good first step, but let’s be realistic, there is a lot we have to do to fix our country’s fiscal problems. We can’t simply cut spending to solve the debt crisis. In addition to cutting spending, we have to grow the economy, fix our broken budget process, save Social Security and Medicare, and reduce the spiraling cost of health care. “I’m glad to see President Trump begin to realign Washington’s actions with the American peoples’ priorities, and I’m optimistic more can be done. We are going to have to take some bold actions if we want to dig out of this fiscal hole and tackle this debt crisis.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.22.2017	02.22.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Health Care With Georgians ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today met with Georgia doctors and health care professionals to discuss ways to improve our country’s health care system to make it more accessible and affordable for Georgians: Senator Perdue meets with physicians and health care leaders from the Atlanta area, some of which include Dr. William Cooper, Vice-Chair of WellStar Medical Group; Dr. Julianne Adams, President of the Atlanta Medical Association; Dr. William Cleveland, Southwest Atlanta Nephrology; Dr. Kevin Woods, Chief of Interventional Endoscopy, Gastroenterology & Nutrition at Cancer Treatment Centers of America; Dr. Camille David Williams, Greater Atlanta Women’s Healthcare; and Dr. Lisa Perry-Gilkes, Polaris Medical Group-ENT. “Doctors and patients agree there is much room for improvement in our current health care system. We had a constructive conversation today about opportunities to improve care for Georgians and Americans. Conversations like this need to happen more often if we want to truly fix the problems facing patients and doctors that were never fully addressed by Obamacare. In my opinion, there’s a much better way to increase access and address rising costs, and I am focused on achieving these results for all Georgians.” ###
02.22.2017	02.22.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Agency To Work With Administration To Protect National Security, Military Readiness Urge changes to hiring freeze implementation affecting Robins Air Force Base, Kings Bay Naval Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) recently joined several of their Senate colleagues in a letter urging the Office of Personnel Management to work with the Trump Administration to remedy potential unintended consequences of the recently announced federal hiring freeze for our nation’s security. The senators urged the Office of Personnel Management to update their guidance to the U.S. Department of Defense on how the Pentagon should carry out the executive memorandum. In a letter to Office of Personnel Management Acting Director Kathleen McGettigan, the senators wrote, “It has come to our attention that… waivers for civilian hiring at military depots, shipyards, plants and arsenals are being issued by service secretaries on a job-by-job basis. This practice is extremely inefficient, impractical and should be changed immediately.” Of the military installations in Georgia, two – Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins and the Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay – could be impacted by what Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue call an inefficient practice of issuing hiring waivers on a case-by-case basis that could further delay critical maintenance, which is already suffering from a shortfall in personnel. While the senators applauded the intent of the executive memo to “reduce the size of bureaucracy across the entire government,” they shared their concerns that the manner in which the order is being implemented does not comply with current law nor does it address the “practical concerns about our national security.” Additionally, they point out that if implementation guidance of the presidential memorandum is not changed to conform to current statute governing civilian employees, the stated goal of U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis to increase military readiness “will be much more difficult to achieve.” The senators reconfirmed their commitment “to work with [Ms. McGettigan] on this important national-security issue.” The letter was authored by U.S. Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and Mike Lee (R-UT) and, in addition to Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue, was signed by Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and James Lankford (R-OK). A copy of the letter is available here. ###
02.21.2017	02.21.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today on President Trump’s selection of Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster for National Security Advisor: “Lieutenant General McMaster is a decorated combat veteran who possesses the skill set needed to fight radical terrorism and extremism around the world. He also served as Commanding General of the Maneuver Center of Excellence at Fort Benning and has seen first-hand the importance of Georgia’s military installations. Lieutenant General McMaster’s proven track record and extensive knowledge of our military make him a great choice to lead President Trump’s national security team, and I look forward to working with him to tackle the global security crisis facing us today.” ###
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Senator David Perdue Announces Agriculture Subcommittee Assignments WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced his subcommittee assignments for the 115th Congress on the Senate Agriculture Committee: Chairman of Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture Security; Nutrition, Agriculture Research, and Specialty Crops; and Commodities, Risk Management, and Trade. “Agriculture is Georgia’s biggest industry,” said Senator Perdue. “It's humbling to represent our farm families and agricultural traditions through this committee. Out-of-control regulations have hurt farmers, and I look forward to being a voice for a thriving agriculture industry in Georgia and the United States.” More about Senator Perdue’s subcommittee assignments: Chairman of Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture Security: Oversees matters involving livestock and dairy production, as well as markets, food safety, and security issues. Nutrition, Agriculture Research, and Specialty Crops: Oversees programs regarding food and nutrition assistance, school meals, non-program crops and research. Commodities, Risk Management, and Trade: Oversees matters regarding production agriculture, including commodity programs, crop insurance, commodity exchanges, agriculture trade, international food assistance, and credit. ###
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New EPA Administrator, Scott Pruitt WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “Scott Pruitt will return some sanity to the EPA, which over the past eight years has overzealously issued thousands of regulations with little environmental benefit all while ignoring the high economic cost. He understands the importance of protecting our country’s natural resources—air, land, and water. I look forward to working with Mr. Pruitt and President Trump to scale back the EPA and provide farmers, businesses, and the American people with some relief after eight years of blatant overreach.” ###
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Senator David Perdue Voices Concern With Border-Adjustment Tax on Fox Business WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress, joined members of the business community by expressing concerns with the proposed border-adjustment tax on Fox Business Network. Click here to watch or click on the image below. “This border-adjustment tax would actually would pick winners and losers in our manufacturing base here in the United States at exactly the time we don’t need to be doing this.” Background: Senator Perdue recently spoke on the Senate floor about the importance of trusting the free enterprise system to grow the economy and last week wrote an opinion piece for The Washington Times about the pro-growth tax ideas that would benefit Georgian and American consumers. ###
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue: New Brigade Coming to Fort Benning WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today announced the U.S. Army will locate a new Security Force Assistance Brigade at Fort Benning, bringing approximately 500 new troops to the Columbus area by October 2017. Today’s announcement is the first of a total of six newly planned security force missions by the U.S. Army. The news comes on the heels of last week’s announcement that the U.S. Army would locate two new missions at Fort Benning that would bring 85 positions to Columbus. “The rebuilding of our armed forces to strengthen our national security has begun, and Fort Benning is an ideal location for this mission,” said Senator Johnny Isakson. “I look forward to working with the U.S. Army and the Columbus community as the implementation of this plan proceeds.” “Fort Benning continues to be the premier training installation for the United States Army,” said Senator David Perdue, a member of the Armed Services Committee. “Establishing the Army’s first Security Force Assistance Brigade at Fort Benning will bring roughly 500 new positions to Columbus. This, along with the news last week about the Security Force Assistance Proponency and Military Advisor Training Academy, better positions Fort Benning to play a major role in our Army's growth. This decision by the Army is certainly reflective of the hard work of the Chattahoochee Valley community who make Fort Benning an incredibly competitive and capable base.” With this basing decision, Fort Benning will become the U.S. Army’s headquarter element for the Security Force Assistance mission to “train, advise, and assist” with the security forces of partner nation militaries. Fort Benning is home to the Maneuver Center of Excellence. The Maneuver Center of Excellence includes both the U.S. Army Infantry School and the U.S. Army Armor School, which serves as the initial and advanced level of military education and training centers for both maneuver elements. On February 9, 2017, it was announced that the U.S. Army would locate their Security Force Assistance headquarter element at Fort Benning’s Maneuver Center of Excellence, bringing approximately 15 personnel. Additionally, on February 9, 2017, it was announced that Fort Benning would also receive the Military Advisor Training Academy, where U.S. soldiers both enlisted and officers will be trained to perform the Security Force Assistance mission. This component will bring approximately 70 personnel, in addition to students that will rotate through the program. ###
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Budget Director, Congressman Mick Mulvaney WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today voted to confirm Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R-SC-05) as Director of the Office of Budget and Management: “With nearly $20 trillion in debt, folks can no longer be just defense hawks or just debt hawks because the debt is one of the greatest threats to our national security. Congressman Mulvaney gets this, and he has spent years studying our country’s finances and pushing Congress to cut excess spending, even if it was not the popular thing to do in Washington. He is committed to cutting waste, eliminating redundant programs, and tackling our country’s fiscal problems head on, and I look forward to working with Congressman Mulvaney and President Trump to bring some common-sense to our country’s finances.” ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Senator David Perdue: Trust The Free Enterprise System To Grow Our Economy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor to build consensus around conservative tax policy changes that will help unleash economic growth. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Transcript: Trust The Free Enterprise System: “For too long, the strength of our economy has been held down by politicians here in Washington and the unintended consequences that occur when they try to interfere with the free enterprise system. It’s time to trust that free enterprise system to get this economy going again...It’s time to simplify our individual tax code, reduce our corporate tax rates, eliminate conflicting business tax deductions, and eliminate the repatriation tax so we can once again become competitive with the rest of the world.” Pro-Growth Tax Ideas: “I’m encouraged that today there are so many of my colleagues in Congress interested in generating new, pro-growth ideas. It’s a new day in Washington. I’ve long been an advocate of simplifying the way we fund our federal government. In my opinion, the best way to do that is ideally with a new system like the FairTax for example, which would move us to a totally new tax system and completely eliminate the personal, corporate, and payroll taxes we suffer through today.” New Tax Would Hammer Consumers: “One idea bears much scrutiny at this point in time, and that is the so-called border-adjustment tax that's now being discussed in Congress. It would hammer consumers, shut down economic growth, and ultimately grow the size of government.” Downsizing The Federal Government: “Growing government with a new layer of complexity on top of our existing income tax system is the last thing we need to be doing at this point in time. We should be talking about how do we downsize the federal government, make our system more competitive with the rest of the world, and create jobs and create the atmosphere for capital formation and innovation again.” How Bad Ideas Become Law: “Historically, lawmakers have crammed numerous proposals into single massive overreaching bills. It's the Washington way. Those bills have often hurt the very people they claimed to champion. When bad ideas get mixed with good ideas, the bad ideas often times become law. That's exactly what could happen here if changes to the individual code, corporate rate, repatriation tax, and this border adjustment tax are combined into one sweeping bill.” Getting Tax Policy Changes Right: “Now, is exactly the time to get these changes right. We have an opportunity to change our tax code to a more competitive structure that doesn't pick winners and losers, that doesn't penalize people for success, and allows us to compete with the rest of the world on a level playing field.” ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Senator David Perdue Meets With Douglasville Student Advocating For Special Olympics WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today met with Michael Holland, a Douglasville student, who came to Washington to share more about the Special Olympics in Georgia and across the country. “Michael is a great young leader and it was inspiring to hear his first-hand account about the real impact of the Special Olympics on our communities,” said Senator Perdue. “As the son of two school teachers, literacy and education are two areas that have always been close to my heart. Michael’s commitment to the Special Olympics and education is an inspiration to us all.” ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Senator David Perdue Leads Effort To Hold Consumer Agency Accountable “We have witnessed a rogue agency more focused on expanding its power than protecting the public.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), John Boozman (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Hoeven (R-ND), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Rand Paul (R-KY), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Thom Tillis (R-NC) today introduced the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Accountability Act of 2017 to make the bureau accountable to the American people by bringing it under the Congressional appropriations process. “Ever since the disastrous Dodd-Frank financial regulation law spawned the CFPB, we have witnessed a rogue agency more focused on expanding its power than protecting the public,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. “Even the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals agrees the CFPB is ripe for abuse and its current structure is unconstitutional. It is clear, the CFPB should be subject to more Congressional oversight so we know what they are doing and how they are using all the personal financial information they collect on American consumers.” This effort has earned support from consumer advocacy and industry groups: Taxpayers Protection Alliance: “Currently, the CFPB operates outside of the jurisdiction of Congress (that most agencies operate in) and continues to be appropriated taxpayer funds without the proper Congressional oversight. This is an agency that demands scrutiny like any other federal agency and should be held accountable for their actions by moving into the proper process for Congressional appropriations,” said David Williams, President, Taxpayers Protection Alliance. American Bankers Association: “Oversight by Congress would allow the very consumers who the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was designed to protect to hold it accountable through their elected officials. An important principle that underlies this bill is that there needs to be an effective check and balance on the Bureau’s authority. The American Bankers Association supports the principle of accountability and balance and commends [the senators] for introducing this measure,” said James Ballentine, Executive Vice President of Congressional Relations and Political Affairs, American Bankers Association. Credit Union National Association: “We appreciate Congress considering common-sense reforms to the CFPB so that it will focus on Wall Street and get out of the way of Main Street. Over the last six years, the new mortgage rules, the rule on international remittances, the proposals on small dollar lending and arbitration, and CFPB enforcement actions have impeded credit unions' delivery of consumer-friendly products and services. Congress and regulators can, and should, provide greater consumer protection by ensuring that local, member-owned credit unions and small banks are able to thrive in a balanced, common-sense regulatory environment that is not rigged in favor of those who prey on consumers and the too-big-too-fail banks that caused the financial crisis,” said Jim Nussle, President & CEO, Credit Union National Association. Georgia Bankers Association: “Having strong checks and balances for agencies with the power to regulate an industry as critical to the economy as financial services just makes common sense. The Congressional appropriations process provides just such a check on the power of any particular agency. We appreciate Sen. Perdue for introducing this bill and Georgia’s banking community supports it,” said Joe Brannen, President & CEO, Georgia Bankers Association. ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Vote To Protect Second Amendment Rights WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to protect the Second Amendment rights of American citizens by halting an Obama Administration rule that requires the Social Security Administration to report the information of some beneficiaries to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), essentially adding them to a list of those who are prohibited from purchasing a gun. “It is essential to ensure that the Social Security Administration recognizes and protects the fundamental nature of seniors’ rights under the Second Amendment,” said Senator Isakson. “I have long criticized the Department of Veterans Affairs for having a similar process that fails to respect veterans’ due-process rights, and I urge my colleagues to overturn this blanket restriction that effectively bans persons receiving disability benefits from purchasing firearms for no good reason.” “Our Constitution enshrines the freedoms we all enjoy as Americans,” said Senator Perdue. “The Obama Administration’s attempt to prohibit law-abiding Americans from exercising their Second Amendment rights is a blatant overreach. I’m glad Congress has taken the common-sense step to undo this onerous rule and protect rights guaranteed by the Constitution.” After the rule was announced, numerous advocacy groups voiced opposition: American Civil Liberties Union: “There is no data to support a connection between the need for a representative payee to manage one’s Social Security disability benefits and a propensity toward gun violence. The rule further demonstrates the damaging phenomenon of ‘spread,’ or the perception that a disabled individual with one area of impairment automatically has additional, negative and unrelated attributes. Here, the rule automatically conflates one disability-related characteristic, that is, difficulty managing money, with the inability to safely possess a firearm.” (American Civil Liberties Union letter to Congress, 02/01/2017) National Council on Disability: “NCD is a nonpartisan, independent federal agency with no stated position with respect to gun-ownership or gun-control other than our long-held position that restrictions on gun possession or ownership based on psychiatric or intellectual disability must be based on a verifiable concern as to whether the individual poses a heightened risk of danger to themselves or others if they are in possession of a weapon. Additionally, it is critically important that any restriction on gun possession or ownership on this basis is imposed only after the individual has been afforded due process and given an opportunity to respond to allegations that they are not able to safely possess or own a firearm due to his or her disability. NCD believes that SSA’s final rule falls far short of meeting these criteria.” (National Council on Disability letter to Congressional Leaders, 01/24/2017) National Rifle Association: “Reporting law-abiding, non-dangerous individuals to NICS and forcing them, as a condition of removal, to prove they are not a threat to society is inconsistent with the GCA, the Second Amendment and basic due process.” (National Rifle Association letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell) ###
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Senators Urge Secretary Mnuchin To Execute Full Extent Of Sanctions Against North Korea WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined U.S. Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) in urging Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to execute the full extent of financial sanctions and targeted financial measures against North Korea allowed under current law. The senators’ letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Pat Toomey (R-PA). “Today, it is reported that Kim Jong-un may be able to strike the West Coast of the United States with nuclear weapons within four years, and that he may already be able to strike our allies in South Korea and Japan, where thousands of U.S. military personnel are stationed,” said the senators in the letter. “The regime was able to evolve its nuclear program due to the Obama Administration’s timidity to enforce rigorous oversight and effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency used to finance its illicit activity.” The senators’ letter lists ten actions that, if fully enforced and implemented, could more effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency it uses to finance its illicit nuclear program: Add any remaining North Korean banks to the list of Specially Designated Nationals, thus completing the cutoff of North Korean banks from the international financial system. Ensure that the Treasury Department has sufficient funds, personnel, resources, and legal authorities to expose North Korea’s money laundering network and its Chinese enablers at the earliest possible date. Then, in accordance with the NKSPEA, either add their names to the list of Specially Designated Nationals and freeze their assets, assess appropriate civil and criminal penalties, or both. Enact additional Patriot Act section 311 special measures against North Korea, including Special Measure 2, which would require banks operating within U.S. jurisdiction “to maintain records, file reports, or both, concerning the aggregate amount of transactions, or concerning each transaction,” with respect to any North Korean property, interests in property, or funds. This measure would leverage the knowledge of the financial industry and begin the laborious process of mapping the web of front companies, shell companies, and agents that sustain Kim Jong-un’s regime. Work with the State Department to investigate whether North Korea merits re-designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. Revise or replace the outdated North Korea Sanctions Regulations at 31 CFR Part 510 to impose comprehensive transactions licensing requirements on transactions involving North Korea, similar to those that previously applied to Iran, Burma, and Cuba. Clarify to the financial industry worldwide that in the future, the Department of Treasury will strictly enforce Know-Your-Customer obligations, and requirements to file Suspicious Activity Reports and Currency Transactions reports, with respect to any North Korean nationals, entities, agents, or assets. Enforcement of these regulations could yield a windfall of financial intelligence necessary to find and block those North Korean assets. In conjunction with the Attorney General at the earliest time possible, initiate an investigation into the Bank of China and the 12 Chinese banks involved in the Dandong Hongxiang case for possible violations of U.S. laws or financial regulations for their North Korea-related transactions. Take strong enforcement action against any banks that continue to unlawfully provide direct or indirect correspondent banking services to North Korean banks. In conjunction with the Secretary of State, ask European Union and Belgian authorities to ensure that North Korean banks are denied access to specialized financial messaging services, such as the SWIFT network, in accordance with their obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions. Continue targeting and freezing the financial assets of any Chinese entity pursuant to the NKSPEA and Executive Order 13722, which prohibit any property or interests within the United States from importing coal from North Korea. The full letter can be viewed here. ###
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Small Business Administrator, Linda McMahon WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee to lead the Small Business Administration, Linda McMahon: “Small businesses are the engine for job creation right now in this economic turnaround. Linda McMahon has created jobs and managed a successful business. She understands that too much government intrusion can directly impact a business’ ability to grow. I’m glad to see another business owner confirmed to serve on President Trump’s team and I look forward to working with Linda McMahon to make finding a job and creating a job easier in America.” ###
02.13.2017	02.13.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Veterans Affairs Secretary, Dr. David Shulkin WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Dr. David Shulkin: “Over the past five years, the Department of Veterans Affairs has fallen short in its commitment to our veterans. This is totally unacceptable. Our veterans and their families have sacrificed so much for our country and this must never be overlooked or forgotten. Dr. Shulkin understands there is much work to be done to improve the Department of Veterans Affairs, and I look forward to working with him and Chairman Isakson to improve accountability within the VA and make sure our veterans get the care, and respect, they deserve.” ###
02.13.2017	02.13.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Treasury Secretary, Steve Mnuchin WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the U.S. Department of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin: “We are well past the tipping point in this debt crisis and both political parties are to blame so I was glad to see President Trump nominate someone from outside of Washington to help fix our country’s financial problems. Steve Mnuchin has a deep understanding of economic policies both on the financial markets and what they mean for Main Street American business. Steve Mnuchin’s input will be extremely valuable as we work to tackle this debt crisis and fix our outdated tax code, and I look forward to working with him on these critical issues.”
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Judge Neil Gorsuch WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after meeting with President Donald J. Trump’s nominee to the U. S. Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch: “After meeting with Judge Gorsuch, it is abundantly clear that he is a principled jurist who will put the Constitution, and the rights of all Americans, at the forefront of any decision he makes. We discussed our country’s Founding Principles of economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty, and how these principles have made our nation exceptional throughout our history. Additionally, Judge Gorsuch has an impeccable academic and legal career that speaks for itself. Throughout our discussion today Judge Gorsuch’s intellect and profound commitment to the rule of law was evident. I have no doubt Judge Gorsuch will be an outstanding associate justice on the United States Supreme Court and he has my utmost support.” ###
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Senator David Perdue Urges Senate To Confirm Dr. Tom Price Immediately “There is no one more qualified to serve as our next Health and Human Services Secretary than my good friend, Dr. Tom Price.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor about the upcoming confirmation vote on President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Tom Price. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Transcript: “I rise tonight to support the confirmation of my friend, fellow Georgian, and our next Health and Human Services Secretary, Dr. Tom Price. I’ve known Dr. Price personally and worked with him for quite some time. He is a remarkable individual and we should take comfort in his nomination to this important position because he has years of service and years of experience working within our nation’s health care system. He has been a practicing physician, a state legislator, and a member of the United States House of Representatives. Dr. Price knows that government intrusion has already negatively impacted patient care in the last few years. He has years of professional experience as a physician and he’s seen as a leading voice in health care policy. My colleagues across the aisle oppose him, they say, primarily because of his opposition to the Affordable Care Act. The truth is, Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight today. …I think we are taking a great American who is willing to volunteer to serve and become a member of this President Trump’s cabinet, and try to make health care better for every American. I can’t think of another person in this country who is more qualified for this timely responsibility. Dr. Price will work to end Washington’s takeover of our health care system, and I know he will work tirelessly for a health care system that compassionately improves the lives of every American. Truly, there is no one more qualified to serve as our next Health and Human Services Secretary than my good friend, Dr. Tom Price. I’m proud to support him and I’m glad we’re finally grinding our way to his confirmation later tonight.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Announce Additional Troops, Missions Coming To Fort Benning WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the decision by the U.S. Army to locate two new missions at Fort Benning that would bring 85 positions to Columbus, Georgia, with room for additional significant growth. “Fort Benning is well positioned to accept these two new missions, and our Columbus community stands ready to welcome with open arms the military personnel and their families who will carry out those missions,” said Senator Isakson. “I appreciate the confidence the U.S. Army continues to place in our Georgia installations as platforms to project power around the world, and I look forward to more positive announcements as the new administration continues to rebuild our armed forces and strengthen our national security.” “Fort Benning continues to prove it is our nation’s premier training installation,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This decision is great news for our Army and for the women and men who live and work in the Chattahoochee Valley Region‎. I’m proud to see Fort Benning emerge as the center of gravity for the Army’s increasingly vital train, advise, and assist missions.” With this basing decision, Fort Benning will become the U.S. Army’s headquarter element for the Security Force Assistance mission to “train, advise, and assist” with the security forces of partner nation militaries. Fort Benning is home to the Maneuver Center of Excellence. The Maneuver Center of Excellence includes both the U.S. Army Infantry School and the U.S. Army Armor School, which serves as the initial and advanced level of military education and training centers for both maneuver elements. The new Security Force Assistance headquarter element will include approximately 15 personnel. Fort Benning will also receive the Military Advisor Training Academy, where U.S. soldiers both enlisted and officers, will be trained to perform the Security Force Assistance mission. This component will include approximately 70 personnel, in addition to students that will rotate through the program. ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm Senator Sessions As Attorney General WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after he voted to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Attorney General, Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL): “For the last two years, I had the privilege of working alongside Senator Sessions on critical judicial and legal issues facing our country. His knowledge and dedication to upholding our Constitution and the rule of law have been evident throughout his many years of public service. Senator Sessions’ extensive legal career as United States Attorney and state Attorney General, coupled with his experience as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, make him a natural fit to lead our nation’s Justice Department. I was proud to vote to confirm Senator Sessions as our new Attorney General and I look forward to working with him to make our country safer for all Americans.” ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Senator David Perdue Speaks To Business Leaders At Yahoo Finance Summit “My message to CEOs around the country: there is a new sheriff in town, he’s an outsider, he’s a business guy, and he’s listening to you.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Former Fortune 500 CEO U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today talked to CEOs and business leaders attending Yahoo Finances All Markets Summit about the impact President Donald J. Trump’s 100-day plan would have on the American economy. Click here to watch or click the image below. Job 1: Grow The Economy: “If job one is to grow the economy, I believe we have to look at the reserve requirements for community banks and regional banks because that is stopping the free flow of new capital to small businesses. We know that small businesses are the engine for job creation right now in this early turn around.” Border Adjustment Tax Hammers Consumers: “The border adjustment tax is a regressive tax, it hammers low-income and middle-income consumers, it doesn’t foster growth…I prefer we talk about getting the corporate tax rate competitive with the rest of the world, cleaning up this corporate welfare that’s embedded in our deductions, dealing with this individual tax cut that the White House is talking about, and freeing up this capital because of our archaic repatriation tax. If we dealt with each of these individually, I think we’d end up in a much better place for our economy.” Reining In A Rogue Agency: “The CFPB is a rogue agency. It does not have any oversight here in Congress…Right now, the people of the United States have no oversight on that. Last year, I drafted a bill to try to put the CFPB back under the appropriation process and give oversight to Congress again.” Outsider’s Message To Private Sector: “My message to CEOs around the country: there is a new sheriff in town, he’s an outsider, he’s a business guy, and he’s listening to you. I believe we’re going to see a new day when we pull back on these regulations, get our tax structure more competitive, get training programs back for the jobs that we can’t fill right now in the United States.” Washington Needs To Focus On Results: “This White House is now moving at a business pace, not a government pace…Business is focused on getting results, Washington is not. That’s not criticism, it’s just a reality. We’ve got to change that if we want to dig out of this hole we are in.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Groups Praise Senators Rational Changes To Legal Immigration “Giant step toward putting this nation back on the right track.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Reforming American Immigration For Strong Employment (RAISE) Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) to reshape our legal immigration system to better meet the needs of our economy, has earned praise from immigration experts and immigration groups. Here’s what they are saying: National Review Editors: “[The RAISE ACT] is a carefully crafted, albeit limited, bill that would sharpen America’s immigration system so that it serves the American economy…The RAISE Act takes direct aim at this policy, restricting immigration preferences to the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents. That change will mean that our immigration is based more on our economy’s needs than on accidents of birth.” (National Review Editorial, 02/07/2017) Federation for American Immigration Reform: “Choosing immigrants based on family ties in the U.S. has proven to be a very poor predictor of their ability to succeed and thrive in today’s modern, competitive, high-tech and highly-skilled America. The RAISE Act takes the first crucial steps to reform this antiquated selection process, reduce extended family chain migration, while insuring that nuclear families are kept in-tact. The bill would move the nation toward a healthier skills- and merit-based immigrant selection process. It also recognizes that our current mass immigration policies are out of sync with the needs and realities of the nation, and returns immigration flows to a more traditional level.” “We applaud Senators Cotton and Perdue for recognizing the complete dysfunction of our current immigration policy and taking a giant step toward putting this nation back on the right track in modernizing and injecting fairness and individual merit back into the immigrant selection process.” (FAIR Press Release, 02/07/2017) Center for Immigration Studies: “Senators Cotton and Perdue have introduced a bill into the Senate called the Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment (RAISE) Act that unashamedly puts the interests of the American people front and center. The bill would take measured steps to reduce, over a period of several years, legal immigration to levels more in line with historic norms than the million-plus our country has been absorbing annually for several years now. This is good for the wages of average Americans, and good for the national interest because it ensures not only that the arriving immigrants have a better chance at assimilation and integration into the national polity, but also that local governments, schools, and social safety nets are better poised to absorb them.” PowerLine: “…The RAISE Act is sensible legislation that is well-tailored to give American workers a better shot at economic advancement. Critics on the left will tell us, as they constantly do, that we are a nation of immigrants. We are, but the RAISE Act won’t change us. We became a nation of immigrants via immigration at our historical levels. By restoring immigration to about those levels, we would remain a nation of immigrant, but one in which the wages of Americans, including recent immigrants, aren’t so severely squeezed.” (Paul Mirengoff on PowerLine, 02/07/2017) ###
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Senators Perdue, Cotton Propose Rational Changes To Legal Immigration RAISE Act restores historic immigration levels to meet needs of economy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) today unveiled the Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment (RAISE) Act, legislation that will help raise American workers’ wages by restoring legal immigration levels to their historical norms and rebalancing the system toward employment-based visas and immediate-family household members. The RAISE Act would lower overall immigration to 637,960 in its first year and to 539,958 by its tenth year—a 50 percent reduction from the 1,051,031 immigrants who arrived in 2015. Click HERE to watch the RAISE Act Press Conference “We are taking action to fix some of the shortcomings in our legal immigration system,” said Senator Perdue. “Returning to our historically normal levels of legal immigration will help improve the quality of American jobs and wages.” “It’s time our immigration system started working for American workers,” said Senator Cotton. “The RAISE Act would promote higher wages on which all working Americans can build a future—whether your family came over here on the Mayflower or you just took the oath of citizenship.” Specifically, the RAISE Act would: Prioritize Immediate Family Households. The RAISE Act would retain immigration preferences for the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents while eliminating preferences for certain categories of extended and adult family members. Eliminate Outdated Visa Lottery. The Diversity Lottery is plagued with fraud, advances no economic or humanitarian interest, and does not even deliver the diversity of its namesake. The RAISE Act would eliminate the 50,000 visas arbitrarily allocated to this lottery. Place Rational Limit on Permanent Residency for Refugees. The RAISE Act would limit refugees offered permanent residency to 50,000 per year, in line with a 13-year average. ###
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Senator David Perdue, Parents, & Education Leaders Applaud New Secretary Of Education Betsy DeVos WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos and joined educators and parents applauding her commitment to improving access to education and returning education control to states and local school boards. U.S. Senator David Perdue “Both of my parents were school teachers and education is something very dear to me. Parents, teachers, administrators, and students all know that one-size-fits-all Washington education standards are not working and it is time to return control back to states and communities. Betsy DeVos shares these same beliefs. She has championed school choice and, as evidenced by her years of involvement, will work tirelessly to improve our education system. I was proud to support Betsy DeVos’ nomination and look forward to working with her to help all students succeed.” (U.S. Senator David Perdue statement in support, 02/03/2017) Georgia Charter Schools Association “Betsy DeVos embraces innovation, endorses accountability and—most especially—trusts parents to choose what is in their unique child's best interests. She also believes in providing every parent with the resources and choices to pursue those decisions.” (Georgia Charter Schools Association letter of support, 01/27/2017) National Alliance for Public Charter Schools “Mrs. DeVos has been a dedicated champion for improving education for all students. As a result of her work with organizations dedicated to education reform, countless children throughout America are now able to access a higher quality education. As Secretary of Education we expect that her leadership will guide the Administration’s budget and policies toward increased academic outcomes for all of our nation’s students.” (Nina Rees, President And CEO, National Alliance For Public Charter Schools, Letter To Sens. Alexander And Murray, 01/04/2017) American Association for Christian Schools “We, the undersigned, endorse this champion of choice and the education reforms needed to improve the future of every child in America. And we strongly advocate for [Betsy DeVos’] confirmation as our next U.S. Secretary of Education.” (American Association for Christian Schools letter in support, 01/27/17) Parents for Choice in Education “Betsy DeVos is an undisputed champion of families and students. For nearly 30 years she has devoted time and resources to improving education options for our nation’s children. Yet millions still languish in failing schools in an education system more than a century old. It’s time for a new vision.” (Parents for Choice in Education letter of support, 01/27/2017) Home School Legal Defense Association “Betsy DeVos is dedicated to building an education system that will effectively support and facilitate the education of all students everywhere, no matter their background, interests, or personal needs. More than this, she has a vision to build a system in which those in the driver’s seat are the ones most capable of determining what will be effective; namely every child’s parents.” (J. Michael Smith, Home School Legal Defense Association, Letter To The Senate, 12/12/2016) Hispanics for School Choice “The most effective way to earn the respect of Latinos is to find them where they are and to tell them the truth. Mrs. DeVos has a track record of reaching out with straight talk and real dollars. Our community is worth the investment…Should Betsy DeVos be confirmed as Secretary of Education, she will earn the trust of Latino families by making sure parents are in control of their children’s future instead of Washington bureaucrats.” (Zeus Rodriguez, Founder of Hispanics for School Choice in Op-Ed, “Betsy DeVos Will Empower Latino Families, Not Bureaucrats,” The Hill, 01/17/2017) ###
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Senators Intervene To Protect Prepaid Accounts From Sweeping Government Regulation Introduce legislation to stop implementation of 1,689 page rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), and Mike Rounds (R-SD) took action to prevent the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) from implementing a sweeping regulation on prepaid accounts, which would impact millions of consumers and stifle growth in the electronic payment marketplace. “If the CFPB wants to continue to impose rules and regulations that impact every American’s financial well-being, it must answer to the American people,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. “As a business guy, I have experienced first-hand the impact overregulation has on growth and innovation. This rule is entirely too broad and would cripple the electronic payment marketplace which Georgians and millions of consumers across the country depend on.” “The CFPB’s prepaid card rule is a disaster for consumers attempting to access prepaid cards,” said Senator Cotton, member of the Senate Banking Committee. “It’s this kind of over-regulation of the financial industry that’s caused regulatory costs to skyrocket while millions of Americans lack access to the banking system. I’m proud to support efforts to roll it back and bring regulatory relief to consumers across the country.” “This rule from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a prime example of what happens when an unaccountable federal agency designs a one-size-fits-all plan,” said Senator Enzi. “What we get is close to 1,700 pages of tedious regulations that impact businesses and have unintended consequences for consumers. It is time that Congress exercise what little oversight it has over this agency to try and hold it accountable to the American people.” “The American people have spoken, and they want more choice and less government control,” said Senator Isakson. This is a first step toward reining in CFPB’s excessive power and making it accountable to Congress and the American people.” “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s 1,800-page prepaid accounts rule is just another example of federal overreach and red tape that throws up barriers to new payment options for consumers,” said Senator Johnson. “Repealing this duplicative rule will streamline access to mobile technologies like PayPal and Venmo that people have come to rely on in their day to day lives.” “Consumers should be protected and be able to conduct financial transactions without undue burden,” said Senator Lankford. “But, rather than focusing on the consumer, the CFPB has issued a broad 1,600 page rule that causes more confusion for the consumer and subjects many payment systems to burdensome requirements similar to major banking operations. A CRA on this rule will allow Congress to prevent an unchecked federal regulator from preventing consumers to select the type of payment systems that work best for them.” “Consumers are adopting prepaid cards for a reason: they are a low-cost alternative to other banking services,” said Senator Lee. “CFPB’s prepaid card rule would only stunt this growth and ultimately harm consumers by saddling this industry with $1.53 billion in unnecessary compliance costs.” “This rule is yet another example of CFPB overreach that goes far beyond the scope of their jurisdiction and authority,” said Senator Rounds, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. “Onerous regulations like these cost consumers and small business owners far too much money and time. Overturning this misguided rule is one of the first of many steps we can take in reigning in the CFPB. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Senate Banking Committee to develop smarter, more efficient banking policies that benefit all consumers and creates a level playing field within the financial services industry.” The broad rule released on October 5, 2016 and published on November 22, 2016 overregulates reloadable prepaid cards and captures digital wallets from Venmo, Google Wallet, and PayPal. If it were to go into effect, the rule would negatively impact innovation and ultimately sideline practical products used in the electronic payment marketplace. While the CFPB’s intent was to make improvements to protect consumers, the proposed rule is entirely too expansive. The senators’ resolution, S J. Res. 19, would nullify the CFPB’s rule. ###
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Trump Administration Sanctions Against Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded action by the Trump Administration to impose increased sanctions on Iran following this week’s reported ballistic missile test by Iran. “We must continue to send a strong message to Iran’s leaders that we will not tolerate any kind of destabilizing activity, from sponsoring terrorist groups to continued testing of ballistic missiles,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “It is long past time we hold Iran’s feet to the fire. I am glad President Trump is approaching this threat with the strength and resilience that was lacking in the previous administration.” “It’s about time we have a president who will hold this rogue nation accountable,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Iran’s belligerent behavior went unpunished for too long by the previous president for political reasons. I’m glad it’s not lost on President Trump that Iran is the number one state sponsor of terrorism, and trusting Iran to change is not only naive, but also creates a national security risk for our ally Israel. Our shared priority remains preventing Iran from ever attaining a nuclear weapon.” Iran, the largest state sponsor of terror, continues to push the boundaries with yet another reported ballistic missile test on January 29, 2017. Senators Isakson and Perdue believe today’s action by the White House will finally begin to put pressure on Iran to end its provocative and destabilizing behavior in the Middle East. Senators Isakson and Perdue repeatedly warned against the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the official name of President Obama’s dangerous nuclear agreement with Iran, and they both voted to reject the implementation of the deal last year. Since President Obama’s agreement was signed, Iran has violated international restrictions on ballistic missiles and arms exports while also exceeding limits on nuclear material set by the JCPOA, all of which went unpunished by President Obama. The Georgia senators joined a unanimous 99-0 vote of the Senate on December 1, 2016, to pass the Iran Sanctions Extension Act to hold Iran accountable for its attempts to threaten the United States and destabilize the Middle East. ###
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Betsy DeVos WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement in support of President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos: “Both of my parents were school teachers and education is something very dear to me. Parents, teachers, administrators, and students all know that one-size-fits-all Washington education standards are not working and it is time to return control back to states and communities. Betsy DeVos shares these same beliefs. She has championed school choice and, as evidenced by her years of involvement, will work tirelessly to improve our education system. I look forward to supporting Betsy DeVos’ nomination and working with her to help all students succeed.” The Senate is scheduled to vote on Betsy DeVos’ nomination next week. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Efforts To Strengthen Refugee Screening Process “Rational, responsible step to keep Americans safe and deal with the ISIS threat once and for all.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday spoke on the Senate floor about the actions President Donald J. Trump has taken to strengthen our refugee screening process. Click here to view the speech. Transcript “I would like to speak momentarily to the President’s recent executive order to strengthen our refugee screening process that he thinks will protect Americans, and I agree with him. The Minority Leader’s ‘tear-jerking’ performance over the past weekend belonged at the Screen Actors Guild Awards, not in a serious discussion of what it takes to keep America safe. Folks back home are fed up with members of this body stirring up global hysteria to score political points. Let’s be clear. This temporary action is not a so-called Muslim ban and no Muslim ban has been put into place. As a matter of fact, the five countries most heavily populated with Muslims around the world were not even included in this temporary pause on movement. In fact, almost 90 percent of the world’s Muslim population is not even remotely affected by this temporary pause. The seven countries included that were included in President Trump’s executive order – Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen – were included for specific reasons. Each of these nations were previously identified by President Obama as posing national security threats to the United States. This is not targeted at any religion. It is simply a temporary pause on the movement of individuals from nations of concern in order to assess whether or not our current screening system is in the best possible shape to protect Americans. I’m apoplectic that members of the Minority Party – and the former President of the United States – would actually say or imply otherwise. Their current encouragement of civil unrest and disobedience is both deplorable and unacceptable. The failed foreign policy of President Obama in Syria, and the broader Middle East, has made the world more dangerous than any time in my lifetime and helped to create the current refugee crisis around the world. We are at war with ISIS. We know that they have identified and targeted our refugee system as a point of weakness. They have already exploited the refugee systems of Eastern Europe, carrying out terrorist attacks and killing innocent people. It would be malfeasance for my president not to take action and immediately review our current screening process to ensure we are helping those in need and keeping terrorists out. This temporary pause will allow us to assess the capabilities of our screening process and strengthen it as needed. Moving forward, the implementation of this temporary pause must be both efficient and effective. Also, during this screening review period, we should avoid overreacting to these responsible steps that are taken to prioritize the protection of all Americans. It’s totally irresponsible and ridiculous for the Minority Leader, members of this body, the former President, President Obama, and others to suggest this is anything other than a rational, responsible step to keep Americans safe and deal with the ISIS threat once and for all.” ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Senator David Perdue Applauds Nomination Of Judge Neil Gorsuch “Judge Gorsuch will honor the formidable, impressive legacy of defending the Constitution left by Justice Scalia.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday applauded President Donald J. Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court and urged his colleagues across the aisle to put the integrity of the U.S. Constitution before their political ambitions. Click here to view the speech. Transcript “President Donald J. Trump promised the American people he would nominate an unwavering supporter of the United States Constitution to the Supreme Court. He has now kept that promise. I personally applaud the president for nominating Judge Neil Gorsuch to serve on the United States Supreme Court. He is an outstanding choice. Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has been a stalwart standing strong in support of the United States Constitution. He has repeatedly shown his commitment to our country’s Founding Principles of economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. These principles have served to make our nation exceptional throughout our history. Each branch of government has the shared charge of preserving and protecting those rights for all Americans. Judge Gorsuch has led a remarkable career in both the public and private sectors, and has demonstrated a keen understanding and appreciation of the law. He has an outstanding academic record. He’s an outsider to the political nonsense here in this town. He has an impeccable judicial record and he is actually called a judge’s judge in the “Scalia mold.” He’s a mainstream judge. Actually, when he was confirmed in his current position, he was confirmed by 11 Democrats who are still in the this body today. Clearly, Judge Gorsuch will honor the formidable, impressive legacy of defending the Constitution left by Justice Scalia. Throughout last year, I and other members of the Senate held our ground in saying no nominee to the Supreme Court should be confirmed until after the presidential election. We believed the American people deserved a voice in the process. We also knew that the hyper-partisanship and politics of a presidential election cycle should never have any place in the nomination and confirmation of a Supreme Court justice, which we all know is a lifetime appointment. The integrity of the Advice and Consent process, clearly spelled out in Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution was at stake. In protecting the integrity of this sacred Constitutional process, we did our job. Our position was exactly the same, ironically, held by former Vice President Biden, former Minority Leader Reid, and others in earlier times and in earlier arguments. Now, that President Trump has announced his nomination, it’s time to continue doing our job. I hope that the Minority Leader and members of the minority party will walk away from the hypocrisy that they’re already demonstrating this year. Last June, the Minority Leader tweeted, ‘In order for justice to remain a pillar of this nation we must have a functioning judicial branch. The Supreme Court of the United States must have nine justices.’ Later that same month, the Minority Leader also said on the floor of the United States Senate, ‘Every day that goes by without a ninth justice is another day the American people’s business is not getting done.’ So why would the Minority Leader and some of the Democrats in this body now say that they will filibuster any nominee to the Supreme Court, before even knowing who would be nominated? The Minority Leader railed on the Senate floor, yet last month he went on CNN last month and said, ‘We absolutely would keep the seat open… we will fight it tooth-and-nail, as long as we have to.’ Again, before a nominee was even announced. The political theater of 2016 had no place in the confirmation process last year. Now is the time to govern, not to engage in the far off political theater of 2018 and 2020. As we move forward in this process, I hope the Minority Leader and my colleagues across the aisle will remember that. I hope they will put the integrity of the Constitution before the scope of their political ambitions and their bitterness about last year’s election outcome. I would remind my colleagues across the aisle that Republicans put aside political theater to confirm two justices to the Supreme Court under both President Obama and President Clinton. Now, President Trump has nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch, a principled judge who will put the Constitution of the United States, and the rights of all Americans, at the forefront of any decision he makes. Judge Gorsuch’s record of service, and his commitment to the Constitution, is quite clear. I’m looking forward to voting to confirm his nomination and to ensuring we have a fully functioning high court. I strongly urge my colleagues across the aisle to put aside their personal, partisan self-interests and do what is right for our country. Our children and our children’s children deserve nothing less.” ###
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson: “President Trump is working to make bold changes to re-establish American leadership and credibility around the world. Rex Tillerson will be instrumental in this effort as our new Secretary of State because he’s not a Washington bureaucrat. Mr. Tillerson has managed extremely large operations globally and negotiated major deals in foreign countries. These unique qualifications and his outside perspective will change, and greatly improve, our diplomatic relations. I am extremely encouraged by Mr. Tillerson’s new role to lead our nation in a new direction after eight years of foreign policy failures.” ###
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Senator David Perdue Announces February Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of February. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities.” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we’re excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s February mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. SouthwestMonday, February 810:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Grady County Farm Bureau15 12th Avenue NECairo, GA 31728 NortheastTuesday, February 910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Athens-Clarke County LibraryMulti Room B2025 Baxter StreetAthens, GA 30606 West GeorgiaWednesday, February 1010:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Heard County Development AuthorityConference Room121 South Court SquareFranklin, GA 30217 Metro AtlantaThursday, February 1110:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Exchange Recreation CenterMultipurpose Room2771 Columbia DriveDecatur, GA 30034 SoutheastMonday, February 2210:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Office of State Senator Jack Hill109 College AvenueReidsville, GA 30452 Middle GeorgiaTuesday, February 2310:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Washington County CourthouseRoom 112132 W. Haynes StreetSandersville, GA 31082 Central Savannah River AreaThursday, February 2510:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.McDuffie County Government Complex1st Floor Conference Room210 Railroad StreetThomson, GA 30824 NorthwestMonday, February 2910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Georgia Highlands College, Floyd CampusAdministration BuildingStudent Support Services Conference Room3175 Cedartown HighwayRome, GA 30161
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On President Trump’s Supreme Court Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after attending President Donald J. Trump’s nomination ceremony for Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court at the White House: “President Trump promised the American people he would nominate someone to the Supreme Court who is unwavering in their support of the Constitution, and he has kept his word. I applaud President Trump for nominating Judge Gorsuch to be our next Supreme Court Justice. Throughout his career Judge Gorsuch has stood steadfast in his support of our Constitution and the Founding Principles it enshrines: economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. These principles are what make the United States exceptional and each branch of government shares the responsibility for protecting these rights. “Judge Gorsuch has led a remarkable career both in the private and public sectors and demonstrated a keen understanding and appreciation of the law. He clerked for two Supreme Court Justices, worked at the Department of Justice under President Bush, and has served admirably on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals for the last ten years. I look forward to confirming Judge Gorsuch and returning to a complete high court.” Background: In February 2016, Justice Antonin Scalia’s passing left a vacancy on the United States Supreme Court. Scalia’s seat remained unfilled since our country was in the midst of a Presidential Election. Senator Perdue repeatedly outlined the need to allow the American people to decide our next president in order to preserve the integrity of the advice and consent process. ###
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm Secretary Elaine Chao WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement after voting to confirm former U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao to lead the U.S. Department of Transportation: “Our nation’s transportation infrastructure is in need of repair, and I can think of no one better to lead the charge to modernize our roads, airways, and bridges than Secretary Chao. She has the experience and knowledge needed to provide President Trump with sound advice on the transportation issues impeding economic growth and mobility in our country. I was proud to vote to confirm her today and look forward to working with her.” ###
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Sally Yates WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue released the following statement on the removal of Sally Yates as Acting Attorney General after she refused to defend President Donald J. Trump’s recent executive order: “Like many Georgians, I have the utmost respect for Sally Yates, but I fully support President Trump’s right to make this type of personnel change in light of the fact that he is trying to protect Americans. Refusing to defend the United States is irresponsible. Under President Obama, our federal agencies were extremely politicized, and President Trump is trying to stop this trend. It is refreshing to see President Trump take action immediately instead of acting like a typical politician.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Senator David Perdue Announces Senate Armed Services Subcommittee Assignments WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue today announced his subcommittee assignments for the 115th Congress on the Senate Armed Services Committee: Readiness and Personnel, Emerging Threats and Capabilities, and the newly-created Cybersecurity Subcommittee. “General Mattis made it abundantly clear that readiness must be our top priority if we are to successfully address the global security crisis we face today. We need to have a serious debate about our funding goals in order meet our military’s needs now and in the future. That means making tough decisions and setting smarter priorities that will help us combat new challenges and increase the lethality of our force on all fronts. My subcommittee assignments will help me understand the full scope of threats, and how we can better address them from a management perspective.” More about Senator Perdue’s Subcommittee Assignments: Readiness and Management: Responsible for military readiness, military construction, housing construction and privatization, contracting and acquisition policy, business and financial management, base realignment as well as budget accounts for operations, maintenance, and construction. Emerging Threats and Capabilities: Responsible for policies and programs related to intelligence, counter-terrorism, and homeland security. It also looks into counter-narcotics, the technology base, and special operations. Cybersecurity: Newly created and responsible for emerging cyber threats, improving cyber security and strategies, and related DOD offices. ###
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Temporary Refugee Suspension WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s recent action to temporarily suspend refugee admissions to the United States: “We are at war with ISIS and our previous president refused to put a plan in place to deal with this threat. We know terrorist groups have identified our country’s refugee system as a weakness and have purposed to exploit this program to their advantage. The first responsibility of any American President is to protect American citizens. This temporary pause will allow DHS to ensure the vetting process is improved. America will always be a compassionate country, and President Trump is taking action to protect all of our citizens.” This is a temporary suspension for 120-days to improve the refugee vetting process and 90-days on individuals coming from seven countries President Obama previously identified as national security concerns: Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen. ###
01.27.2017	01.27.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Welcome Georgians To Capital For March For Life WASHINGTON, D.C. – The offices of U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) together welcomed Georgians visiting our nation’s capital today for the annual March for Life. “Every year, Georgians from all across the state make the journey to Washington to participate in the March for Life,” said Senator Isakson. “My staff and I appreciate the time and dedication that marchers show to the important cause of affirming human life and ensuring that unborn babies, who are the very example of the voiceless and helpless, are advocated for and remembered by our nation's legislators.” “What a testament it is each year to see so many Georgians and Americans join together and March on Washington to protect unborn life,” said Senator Perdue. “We have a moral obligation to protect unborn life and to promote a culture that values life and protects the innocent, especially the unborn. Every child is a blessing, and I will keep fighting to advance pro-life legislation in the Senate.” Senators Isakson and Perdue have both co-sponsored legislation that protects unborn life and safeguards unborn babies from unimaginable pain: the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act prevents late-term abortions for any reason except to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest after 20 weeks of development, the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act requires any health professionals to provide children with the same care of any another child born alive at the same gestational age, and the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. ###
01.25.2017	01.25.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On President Trump’s Immigration Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding reports that President Donald J. Trump will take action to ensure our country’s immigration laws are enforced and our borders are secure: “President Trump is making it a priority in his first week to take a fresh look at our country’s immigration policies so we can finally start fixing their many shortcomings. Before anything can happen to address our nation’s immigration issues, we must first enforce our current immigration laws and secure our borders. Job one is to make it easier to remove felons who are here illegally and pose a risk to the safety of Americans. Simultaneously, our federal government should finally crack down on the hundreds of sanctuary cities refusing to enforce our laws by choosing to harbor criminals and illegal immigrants. President Trump’s actions are a good first step towards fixing our immigration system and solving our national security crisis.” ###
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New U.N. Ambassador, Governor Nikki Haley WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after voting to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for the Ambassador to the United Nations, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley: “Governor Haley and I share the desire to make the U.N. more transparent to American taxpayers. She understands that we are facing a global security crisis and is committed to reversing the dangerous precedent President Obama set—one that has confused our friends and emboldened our adversaries. Governor Haley and I agree that peace and preserving our national sovereignty is the ultimate objective in our participation in the U.N., and I was proud to vote in support of her nomination today.” Click here for a picture of Senator Perdue and Governor Haley. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Lead Senate In Moment Of Silence For Georgia Tornado Victims WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today led the U.S. Senate in a moment of silence to reflect on the lives lost over the weekend during the deadly tornadoes that touched down in south central Georgia. Click here to watch or click the image below. “I rise today to express my sympathy and support for the people of my home state, Georgia,” said Senator Perdue before requesting the Senate observe a moment of silence. “This past weekend, severe storms and deadly tornadoes tore through South Georgia, destroying homes and businesses and taking lives, unfortunately, of at least 15 Georgians. Among those areas hit the hardest were counties surrounding the cities of Adel and Albany. These counties and cities are very near where I grew up and where I now reside personally. When last weekend’s storms hit, emergency management teams there were still leading recovery efforts in response to deadly storms that had just caused widespread destruction earlier this month. I am very grateful for the tireless and ongoing efforts of our first responders in our state and stand with our Georgia families during this difficult time. Our hearts, of course, go out to the families affected by these severe storms.” “I want to thank my partner, Senator Perdue, for arranging this colloquy today,” said Senator Isakson during remarks on the Senate floor. “I want to join him in expressing sympathy to the families of those who were lost in Georgia and to the thousands and thousands of Georgians who have been injured, displaced or lost valuable property. My wife Dianne sends her wishes as well. This part of Georgia is very close to me. I grew up as a young boy working on a farm in Fitzgerald, Georgia, not far from Albany. I know what these people are like, and they are salt of the each kind of folks. They don’t deserve something like this happening, but they do deserve and merit everything we can do to get them aid. I'm so happy Secretary Kelly called me yesterday to offer the services of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Governor Deal has done job of arranging the disaster area, and the Georgia Emergency Management Agency are already in place. My heart goes out to the injured. My heart goes out to my state, and my prayers go out to the families of those injured and in the hospital and those who perished in the terrible tornadoes.” “Mr. President, we ask that we observe a moment of silence for the lives lost in Georgia and across the Southeast,” Senator Perdue concluded. Georgia’s U.S. House delegation, led by U.S. Reps. Austin Scott (R-GA-8) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA-2) also held a moment of silence on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday. ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Senator David Perdue: Jump Starting Keystone & American Energy “We finally have a president who has the guts to choose American workers over special interests.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding reports that President Donald J. Trump will take action to advance the Keystone Pipeline and American energy projects: “We finally have a president who has the guts to choose American workers over special interests. Energy projects like the Keystone Pipeline will generate jobs and inject new life into our economy. For years, we’ve had our hands tied by a Democratic Administration unwilling to unleash our full energy potential, even after its own environmental assessments returned favorable reviews. Last Congress, President Obama vetoed the Keystone Pipeline, after Congress approved the project with a bipartisan majority in both chambers. President Trump is already translating his rhetoric into results, and I look forward to working together to make our country more energy independent.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm New CIA Director, Congressman Mike Pompeo WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm Congressman Mike Pompeo of Kansas as President Donald J. Trump's Director of the Central Intelligence Agency: “Our nation is facing a global security crisis like we've never seen before. From serving in the Army, patrolling the Iron Curtain, to his time on the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Pompeo understands the complex threat environment we face today. From traditional rivals Russia and China, rogue regimes like Iran and North Korea, the ever-growing threat of radical terrorism, to new dimensions like cyber and space, he intimately understands the challenges facing our intelligence community. America’s intelligence professionals are on the front lines of our national security, and they will be well-served with Mike Pompeo providing new leadership to the CIA at a time when we need it most.” ###
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Vincent Viola WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with Vincent Viola, President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Army: “Vincent Viola is a talented businessman and Army veteran who is ready to tackle the challenges facing our nation’s Army. As Georgians know well, our Army end strength was cut to irresponsibly low levels under the previous president’s administration. Mr. Viola and I discussed the importance of growing our troop levels and ensuring proper readiness and equipping, the urgent need for Army modernization, and how to integrate the Army’s growing cyber capabilities into all aspects of operations. “As a Ranger Infantry Officer, Vincent Viola trained at Fort Benning and has firsthand experience of what Georgia has to offer. He is a solid leader to serve as Secretary of the Army, and I fully support his nomination.” ###
01.22.2017	01.22.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Tornadoes In Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following information after deadly tornadoes hit south central Georgia, prompting Governor Nathan Deal to issue a state of emergency for the following counties: Atkinson, Berrien, Brooks, Colquitt, Cook, Lowndes, and Thomas. “Our thoughts go out to the Georgians impacted by these dangerous storms, especially the victims who tragically lost their lives,” said Senator Perdue. “We thank our many first responders, volunteer firefighters, and good Samaritans who continue to help our communities recover. Inclement weather is still possible for our area so please remain alert and contact your local emergency management agency for shelter assistance. My office has been in touch with the Governor’s office and we stand ready to do all we can to assist Georgians in need.” Helpful Information: To locate a shelter, contact your local Emergency Management Agency (EMA) by selecting your county on GEMA’s EMA map here. Stay up-to-date on this weekend’s severe weather by visiting the National Weather Service website, click here for more information. Visit the National Weather Service site to be certain whether your county is under a watch, warning or advisory. These tips will help you and your loved ones stay prepared for severe weather while under a tornado watch. ###
01.20.2017	01.20.17 Senator David Perdue Votes To Confirm National Security Cabinet Nominees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to confirm the following members of President Donald J. Trump’s cabinet: General James Mattis for Secretary of Defense and General John Kelly for Secretary of Homeland Security: “Today, was a historic day for our country. President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence took the oath of office and pledged to uphold their goal of making America great again. President Trump has surrounded himself with great people who have a successful record of getting results. “It is outrageous that Senator Schumer and Democrats are delaying this transition process and preventing us from confirming key national security posts immediately. After a peaceful transfer of power, there is no place for political grandstanding when we face a global security crisis. When President Obama took office, the Senate confirmed seven nominees that day, and it is my hope Democrats put their differences aside, and work with us to confirm the full cabinet quickly.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.20.2017	01.20.17 Senator David Perdue Previews President Trump’s First 100 Days WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) previewed President Donald J. Trump’s first 100 days on CNBC’s “Squawk Box” this morning. Click here to watch or click the image below. Job One Is Getting Economy Going: “Job one is getting the economy going again and getting people back to work. You'll see all this work on Obamacare first. Then there will be the tax package that will follow that. Following both of those will be the work to get the economy going.” Border Tariff Hammers Consumers: “I'm concerned about it...In my view, it's regressive. It just hammers low-income and middle-income consumers, and it really doesn't foster growth. Frankly, it's a Schumer Tax, it’s what he talked about in the early 2000s.” Business Perspective On Tax Plan: “There's only one Fortune 500 CEO in all of Congress. I'm trying to make that argument right now, to slow this down to where we can really look at it. We have past precedent around the world, and we know what happens. In Europe, for example, I lived there when they were putting the VAT in place. It caused bigger government. It's a tax grab basically.” Economy Anticipating Growth: “I worry about interest rates and our debt. If we're successful, we'll get the economy going. Right now, the bond market is already anticipating growth. Interest rates are bubbling up. What's going to happen with this debt size, is we’ll be paying much more interest, and that really concerns me in the short-term.” Success Is Getting People Back To Work: “Success is getting people back to work. I want to see 3% or 4% GDP growth, but it's not going to happen in year one...This is a heavy lift. We have to undo a lot of regulatory things that are killing this economy.” President Trump Wants Results: “This guy’s an outsider, he’s a business guy, and he wants results. When you break eggs in a place like this it’s not going to be pretty.” ###
01.19.2017	01.19.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Governor Sonny Perdue’s Nomination On Fox News Channel WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) discussed President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination of his first cousin and former Georgia Governor, Sonny Perdue, to be Secretary of Agriculture on Fox News Channel’s “America’s Newsroom” with Martha MacCallum. Click here to watch or click the image below. Trump Picks Dream Team: “President-elect Donald Trump has a history of putting great people around him. This lineup of potential nominees is stellar. Look at the results of these people. These are highly accomplished people with great track records of getting results.” Governor Perdue’s Immensely Qualified: “Last night, President-elect Trump called my cousin, Sonny Perdue, and offered him the job of Secretary of Ag, and my cousin accepted. Today, they're beginning the process. As we see going around us today, even in these hearings, this is a process. It’s a great process, and these are fantastic people, in my mind. It really gives me encouragement about the opportunity to change the direction of our country.” Results-Oriented Cabinet: “These people are proven leaders. They know how to get results. They know how to get things done…Here is the reality. Barack Obama’s top eight cabinet picks only had five years, collectively, in the chief executive position, chief operating officer position, or any of the C-Suite positions in the private sector. This group of cabinet nominees, and just the top eight positions, has over 80 years of that [experience].” Schumer Off-Base: “The private sector for is fully represented here, as is the experience here in Washington. So, I think Senator Schumer is off-base. These people [Trump’s cabinet nominees] know how to get results. That’s why the people of America elected Donald Trump.” ###
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Senator David Perdue On Selection Of Governor Sonny Perdue As Secretary of Agriculture WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, made the following statement on President-elect Donald J. Trump’s pending nomination of his first cousin and former Georgia Governor, George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III, as the Secretary of Agriculture: “I could not be more proud of my cousin, Sonny, for being named the next Secretary of Agriculture. Sonny’s executive experience as a two-term Governor of Georgia, the first Republican in 135 years, as well as his veterinary background and agribusiness career, are a few of the many reasons he is the best person for the job. Sonny is a national leader having served as the Chairman of the Republican Governors Association, board member for the National Grain & Feed Association, President of the Georgia Feed and Grain Association, and President of the Southeastern Feed and Grain Association. I am confident Sonny will work hard to advance smart agriculture policies that will help our farmers, ranchers, and rural communities across the country.”
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Rex Tillerson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), former Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, today released the following statement after meeting with Rex Tillerson, President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State: “We need to make bold changes to help re-establish American leadership and credibility around the world. President-elect Trump understands that we need someone with an outside perspective and diverse experience to lead our diplomatic efforts, not another Washington bureaucrat. As a business guy, I am extremely encouraged by Mr. Tillerson’s unique qualifications to lead our nation’s foreign policy. “In our meeting today, we discussed President Obama’s dangerous Iran Deal, the rise of traditional rivals like Russia and China, and the threats posed by North Korea. Mr. Tillerson will bring a results-oriented focus to the State Department and our diplomatic efforts around the world, partnering with our friends to address the critical issues facing our global security today. Mr. Tillerson is committed to tackling this multifaceted global security crisis, and I strongly support his nomination to be the next Secretary of State.” ###
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Senator David Perdue Urges Colleagues To Support Dr. Tom Price WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement urging his colleagues to support President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination for U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary, fellow Georgian, Dr. Tom Price: “Dr. Price is a standup individual and we should take comfort in his nomination because he has years of experience working within our nation's health care system. He understands how government intrusion negatively impacts patient care and will work to end Washington's takeover of our health care system. Because of his professional experience as a physician, Dr. Price is seen as a leading voice on health care policy and has a common-sense plan to replace Obamacare that will lower costs and put patients in charge of their health care choices. I’ve had the opportunity to work closely with Dr. Price, and there is no doubt in my mind that he will do a fantastic job improving our nation’s health care system and the lives of all Americans.” ###
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Senator David Perdue Blasts Spurious CBO Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today blasted Senator Chuck Schumer’s request for the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report on the repeal of Obamacare, which was requested to distract from Congressional Republicans’ efforts to fix our nation’s health care system. “This represents the worst of Washington. Senator Schumer’s preemptive request does not take into account any of the market driven solutions Republicans have outlined, which would provide greater coverage options with more choices for more consumers. The CBO even cautioned the projections Senator Schumer requested are hard to make because this scenario doesn’t even exist. “Since President Obama’s signature health care law was introduced, Americans have been fed so much misinformation. These types of rigged reports only push a narrative that doesn’t match what I am hearing from Georgians. “Many of my constituents have shared their personal Obamacare horror stories, and I am working hard on their behalf to fix our broken health care system. It is past time for Senate Democrats to realize that Obamacare has failed, and it is collapsing under its own weight. It is time for us to work together to provide all Americans with affordable health insurance they can actually use.” Georgia Obamacare Stories: Brenda from Dahlonega, GA is a small business owner whose individual health insurance increased from $350 per month to $1400 per month under Obamacare. Coverage for both Brenda and her husband increased to an unaffordable $2,800 per month. These costs are detrimental to the small business the couple owns and operates. Jenny from Jasper, GA is self-employed and prior to Obamacare had a quality health insurance plan with a premium of less than $400 a month with a $2,500 deductible. Since Obamacare was introduced, Jenny has seen her premium rise to $1,600 a month with a $20,000 deductible. In addition, her local doctor would not accept the plans offered through the exchange, so she was forced to purchase a private insurance plan. John from Cleveland, GA had health insurance through a professional organization but was dropped from his plan when Obamacare was introduced. In 2015, he and his wife paid $7,000 per year for health insurance. In 2016, their rates increased to $14,000 per year, and they are currently paying over $22,000 per year. John will be paying 20% of his Adjusted Gross Income for health insurance in 2017. ###
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Take Action To Increase Government Transparency & Accountability Support legislation introduced by Georgia Congressman Buddy Carter WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) today applauded the Senate’s passage of bipartisan legislation that would increase government transparency and accountability. The legislation was originally introduced by Carter in the U.S. House of Representatives. The GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017, H.R. 72, would provide the Government Accountability Office (GAO) with enhanced tools to oversee federal programs and ensure it is able to obtain the records needed to audit, evaluate and investigate federal agencies. In particular, this bill would ensure GAO has full access to the National Directory of New Hires, or NDNH, a database essential for properly auditing many of the government’s largest programs. The legislation now heads to the president’s desk for his signature. I’m pleased that the Senate has advanced this important step in promoting government transparency,” said Senator Isakson. “It is essential that the Government Accountability Office is able to do its job without obstruction from federal agencies. I will continue to work with my colleagues to conduct much-needed oversight of federal programs and root out waste, fraud and abuse.” “It is no secret that Washington bureaucrats have a reputation for putting their self-interests ahead of our national interests,” said Senator Perdue. “Too often, audits of federal agencies and requests for information are stonewalled to protect the power of unelected bureaucrats or advance a political agenda. This is unacceptable. Our government watchdog will now have more tools at its disposal to increase transparency and hold bureaucrats accountable.” “Passage of this bill today in the Senate is a huge win in the fight to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure the federal government is transparent and accountable," said Congressman Carter. “GAO is one of the most important tools used in this fight and my legislation ensures federal agencies cooperate with GAO so they are able to access what is necessary to conduct their investigations. I encourage the President to sign this critical legislation into law as soon as possible.” Specifically, the GAO Access and Oversight Act of 2017 would: First, it would clarify that GAO’s blanket authority to access federal records under 31 U.S.C. 716 includes access to the NDNH. Second, it would strengthen GAO’s ability to bring a civil action in court by ensuring GAO has standing in the event an agency refuses to disclose information GAO requires to fulfill its oversight and investigation duties. Third, it would require GAO to keep congressional committees of jurisdiction apprised of any recommendations related to agencies they oversee. ###
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Senator David Perdue Announces Banking Subcommittee Assignments WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a new member of the Senate Banking Committee, today announced his Banking Subcommittee assignments for the 115th Congress: Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection; National Security and International Trade and Finance; and Economic Policy. “After spending 40 years in the business world working closely with our job creators and trade partners, I hope to lend a unique perspective to these important debates. We can unleash the full potential of our free enterprise system. We can improve our business climate and return to sensible economic policy. To do this, we have got to get Washington out of the way. As a new member of the Senate Banking Committee, I am eager to remove the regulatory burdens our businesses and banks – small and large – have been forced to operate under these past eight years so our economy can finally see significant growth again.” ### Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress and is serving his first term in the United States Senate, where he represents Georgia on the Armed Services, Banking, Budget, and Agriculture Committees.
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Senators Isakson, Perdue Announce Two Georgia Students Selected For U.S. Senate Youth Program Students will visit Washington, D.C., receive $10,000 scholarships WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today announced that two Georgia high school students have been selected as delegates to the 55th annual United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) that will be held March 1 through 11, 2017, in Washington, D.C. Jacob Timothy Cone, of Thomasville, and Alvin M. Winston, II, of Atlanta, were chosen in a very competitive selection process to be part of the group of 104 student delegates who will attend the program’s “Washington Week.” While in Washington, the student delegates will attend meetings and briefings with senators, U.S. House representatives, congressional staff, the president, a justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an ambassador to the United States and senior members of the national media. The students will also tour many of the national monuments and several museums. “I congratulate Jacob Cone and Alvin Winston on this great accomplishment,” said Senator Isakson. “Each has an impressive record of commitment to service and to their studies, and I applaud them. These students will learn a great deal during their visit to Washington.” “Students selected to join the United States Senate Youth Program are strong leaders in their communities and classrooms,” said Senator Perdue. “Congratulations to Jacob Cone and Alvin Winston on receiving this honor, and to Julia Powell and Hannah Payne for being chosen as alternates. I look forward to hearing about these young leaders’ bright futures.” Jacob Cone attends Thomasville High Scholars Academy in Thomasville and serves as the school council president. Jacob has attended the state of Georgia’s Center for Civic Engagement’s Youth Assembly Conference each of his years in high school, and is a member of Georgia’s Superintendent Student Advisory Council. He is an Eagle Scout and has been the huddle leader of his high school’s Fellowship of Christian Athletes since 2013. Jacob plans to pursue an undergraduate degree at the University of Georgia’s School of Public and International Affairs. He hopes to attend law school and pursue his interest in lobbying for veterans’ affairs and agriculture and eventually to represent south Georgia in the political arena. Alvin Winston attends Charles R. Drew Charter School in Atlanta and serves as vice president of the student body. As a member of his charter school’s first graduating class, Alvin served as student body president as a sophomore and junior, and he was the freshman class president. He was appointed as chairman for 21st Century Leader’s Youth Ambassadors, and has attended the Governor’s Honors Program as a social studies major, studied Constitutional law at the Duke University Talent Identification Program, and Global Health through Harvard’s pre-college program. Alvin plans to dual major in political science and African-American Studies and minor in Spanish. In law school, Alvin would like to specialize in immigration law and eventually hopes to become a Supreme Court justice. Chosen as alternates to the 2017 program were Julia Powell of Augusta, who attends Liberty Independent Private School, and Hannah Payne of Rome, who attends Unity Christian School. The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates after nomination by teachers and principals. This year’s Georgia delegates were designated by Richard Woods, Georgia’s state superintendent of schools. Each year this extremely competitive merit-based program brings 104 of the most outstanding high school students — two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity — to Washington, D.C. for an intensive week-long study of the federal government and the people who lead it. The overall mission of the program is to help instill within each class of USSYP student delegates more in-depth knowledge of the American political process and a lifelong commitment to public service. In addition to the program week, The Hearst Foundations provide each student with a $10,000 undergraduate college scholarship with encouragement to continue coursework in government, history and public affairs. Transportation and other expenses for Washington Week are also provided by The Hearst Foundations; no government funds are utilized. The USSYP was created in 1962 and has been sponsored by the Senate and fully funded by The Hearst Foundations since inception. In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, the student delegates generally rank academically in the top one percent of their states among high school juniors and seniors. ###
01.16.2017	01.16.17 Senator David Perdue Statement Honoring The Legacy Of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s life and legacy: “Today, we honor and reflect upon the courageous life and teachings of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. His words echo through history and touch the hearts of Georgians and Americans alike. It is my hope that as a country we will continue to strive for the kind of peace, justice, and understanding that Dr. King so honorably dedicated his life to.” ###
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Isakson, Perdue, Bishop, Scott Reintroduce Legislation to Create Georgia’s First National Historical Park Seek Ocmulgee Mounds expansion, preservation WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-2) and Austin Scott (R-GA-8) reintroduced legislation in the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives to create Georgia’s first national historical park. The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2017 seeks to expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to 2,800 acres, to change the name of the park from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” to increase name recognition, and to authorize a resources study to include recreational activities such as hunting, fishing, and camping. During the 114th Congress, an identical version of the bill passed unanimously through the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee and the full U.S. House of Representatives. The previous Senate version of the legislation passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, but did not come up for a vote by the full Senate before Congress adjourned for the year. “Designating Ocmulgee National Monument as Georgia’s first national historical park would be an exciting distinction for middle Georgia’s tourism industry, not to mention that it would help preserve its rich historical and archaeological heritage,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m pleased to again introduce this legislation in the U.S. Senate.” “I’m happy to join Senator Isakson and my colleagues in the House in working to expand the Ocmulgee National Monument’s boundary and designate it as a historical park,” said Senator Perdue. “The site is truly one of our state’s historical treasures and this designation will help protect a piece of Georgia’s rich history.” “The Ocmulgee Mounds are a true treasure to the state of Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am very excited to reintroduce this legislation with my Georgia colleagues in the House and Senate. We strongly believe in the importance of preserving the legacy of the site’s past inhabitants for future generations to enjoy. The creation of Georgia’s first national historical park will not only bolster the local economy, but also help preserve that rich legacy.” “Ensuring that the Ocmulgee Mounds receive the national park status and historical recognition they deserve will have a lasting positive economic and cultural impact in Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “It is for our constituents in Middle Georgia that we come together in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to reintroduce this legislation that will preserve our state’s history for future generations.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, expanding Ocmulgee National Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park will be a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Ga., and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres, but local citizens at that time could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. Operated by the National Park Service, the role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to “present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today.” The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act enjoys support from the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), which represent over 500,000 Native Americans throughout the United States. The measure is also supported by Macon Mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic Development Commission, and the Ocmulgee National Park & Preserve Initiative. ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Senator Perdue & General Mattis: Debt Greatest Threat To National Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today highlighted the dangerous impact our debt has on national security during the confirmation hearing for General James Mattis, President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Defense. Click here to watch or click the image below. Senator Perdue: “General, thank you for your extraordinary lifetime of dedication and commitment in service to our country and your willingness to serve again. I was very impressed in our conversation this week with your humility and with your acuity of the global situation today. Several past Secretaries of [Defense] have actually said in recent years that the greatest threat to national security is our own federal debt. Do you agree with that, sir?” General Mattis: “I do, sir…We don’t want a military that just breaks the bank, but at the same time, we cannot solve this debt problem on the backs of our military alone…I consider it an abrogation of our generation's responsibility to transfer a debt of this size to our children.” ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Senator David Perdue: We Need A Health Care System That Works WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed a resolution that sets up the repeal of Obamacare: “Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. Since President Obama and his Democratic Super Majority crammed this bill through Congress without one Republican vote, we’ve seen premiums and deductibles increase and choices decrease. Many Americans, like me and my wife, had their insurance plans cancelled altogether. We were promised we could keep our doctors, and that wasn’t true. We were promised we could keep our plan, and that wasn’t true. The American people are fed-up and went to their polling booths in November to express their outrage. “Make no mistake, this moment has been a long time coming and with President-elect Donald J. Trump in the White House and Congressman Tom Price leading our top health care agency, Americans can expect to see great improvements in our health care system. While I am concerned with the lack of direction we’ve seen in Congress, these important decisions that will directly impact Americans’ health care must not be rushed. We have to get it right. There are various common-sense Republican health care solutions that would provide greater coverage options, drive down costs, and improve continuity of care. These ideas have been studied and debated over the years, and it’s time we coalesce around a solution that will work. “I promised Georgians I’d do everything I can to get rid of Obamacare, and we are now one step closer to getting some real relief from this disastrous law.”
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Congressman Mulvaney WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today met with Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R-SC-05), President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Director of the Office of Management and Budget: “Our country is well past the tipping point in this debt crisis, and when Washington’s spend now, save later merry-go-round stops, it’s not going to be pretty. We need a White House Office of Management and Budget Director who is focused on cutting waste, eliminating redundant programs, and tackling our country’s fiscal problems head on. “I had a great meeting with Congressman Mulvaney today. He has spent years studying our country’s finances and pushing Congress to cut excess spending, even if it was not the popular thing to do in Washington. Congressman Mulvaney is a great choice to lead us in a new direction, and I fully support this nomination. I look forward to working with Congressman Mulvaney and President-elect Donald J. Trump to bring some common-sense to our country’s finances and hold all of us accountable to paying down the national debt.”
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Isakson, Perdue, Graves, Allen Applaud Governor Deal’s New Cybersecurity Investment in Georgia With construction of state-of-the-art facility, Georgia continues to lead nation in cybersecurity, training WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with U.S. Representatives Tom Graves (R-GA-14) and Rick Allen (R-GA-12) today applauded the announcement by Governor Nathan Deal (R-GA) to dedicate millions into a new facility in Augusta, that will serve as an additional tool in our defense arsenal and enable Georgia to continue to lead in cybersecurity and economic development. During today’s State of the State address, Deal outlined plans to begin construction on the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, a state-owned facility designed to promote modernization in cybersecurity technology for both private and public industries. The new facility will operate in conjunction with the Department of Defense and the National Security Agency (NSA), along with a number of universities, technical colleges, and private entities in Georgia. “Thanks in large part to the efforts of Governor Deal and our entire Congressional delegation, Georgia has emerged as a national leader in cybersecurity,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “Governor Deal’s action will cement Georgia’s role as a leader on issues of cybersecurity by prioritizing the construction of a new, state-of-the-art facility in conjunction with the defense department and NSA, as well as with private institutions and the state’s universities and technical colleges. The Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be an invaluable resource to our defense community as well as a boon to our economy.” “Georgia is on the front lines of training the next generation of cyber warriors,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Building on the innovative efforts we've seen bringing the United States Army Cyber Command to Fort Gordon, this new specialized training facility in Augusta will help boost our state's cyber workforce. In the face of ever-evolving attacks, our nation must strengthen its defense capabilities to combat the constant asymmetric threats we face on a daily basis. When it comes to cyber security, I'm encouraged to see Georgia leading the way, and I appreciate all the hard work the Governor and legislature are doing to make this happen.” “The Cyber Innovation and Training Center will strengthen Georgia’s status as a national leader in cybersecurity,” said Congressman Graves, a member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee. “This new center will also have far reaching impacts on our state’s economy, including spurring growth in the financial technology industry, complimenting Amy Cyber Command at Fort Gordon, helping our businesses secure customer data, supporting our state’s tech incubators and facilitating economic growth. I commend the Governor for his leadership on this important issue and the entire congressional delegation for working together to ensure our federal cyber assets have a home in Georgia and the resources needed to succeed.” “Cyber is the new frontier,” said Congressman Allen, who represents Augusta in the U.S. House of Representatives. “A 21st Century Military is essential to field the threats of today, tomorrow and beyond. With the U.S. Army Cyber Command’s transition to Ft. Gordon, numerous tech companies and jobs investing in our area, the creation of local cyber institutes and now the establishment of the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, the CSRA and Georgia at large have the potential to become the security, technology and innovation hub of the Southeast. Because of the work that will be done here, we will be leading the charge for growing the cyber workforce and leading our nation. I applaud Governor Deal for his efforts to strengthen our national security and thank him for this incredible investment in our community.” As home to Fort Gordon’s U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence, as well as to the National Security Agency’s headquarters and the U.S. Army’s new cyber command headquarters, the Augusta community is uniquely positioned to accommodate the new, state-owned Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center. Governor Deal has announced a $50 million investment in the new Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, which will be licensed under the Georgia Technology Authority and located on a state-owned property in Augusta in partnership with state, federal, and the private sector to create a secure environment for cybersecurity education programs, training, and testing. The Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be a state-owned cyber range and facility bringing academia, private industry and government together to establish cybersecurity standards across state and local agencies with the capability to develop and practice protocols. The center will also be a place to advance the field of information security with leading-edge vulnerability research to ensure reliable and effective practices. The partners for the new facility include the Georgia National Guard, the Department of Defense, the Georgia Technology Authority, the Technical College and University Systems of Georgia, the Georgia Department of Economic Development, the Georgia Bureau of Investigations and numerous other private sector entities. According to Governor Deal’s office, the goals and strategies of the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be: Education and Training: Improve Georgia’s cybersecurity education, training and research infrastructure to enhance public and private sectors in cybersecurity preparedness, while building a world-class workforce. Research and Development: Enhance research and development opportunities through leading edge technology, while providing small businesses with the tools to grow and compete by allowing access to technology and education resources through the Center. Cybersecurity and Protection: Increase protection and security of public resources, infrastructure and provide efficient and effective response to cyber related emergencies. Economic Development: Heighten Georgia globally as the best place for business through innovation and collaboration with private industry in cybersecurity. Government and Public Infrastructure: Deliver safe, secure and efficient government services through inter-agency cybersecurity collaboration; and to build a world-class and cyber secure public infrastructure and utility grid to enhance the quality of Georgia’s citizens. ###
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Senator David Perdue Announces January Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of January. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s January mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Middle Georgia Monday, January 23 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Family Connections and Community in Schools of Glascock County 370 West Main Street Gibson, GA 30810 West Central Georgia Wednesday, January 25 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Roberta-Crawford Civic Center 96 Matthews Street Roberta, Georgia 31078 ###
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With General James Mattis WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today met with General James Mattis, President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Defense: “General Mattis is a highly experienced and decorated military leader. He fully understands the principle of civilian control of the military, which is so important to our democracy. With his experience, I believe General Mattis is the right person given the challenges of our time. His decades of experience and strong leadership will be absolutely essential in helping America deal with its global security crisis. This crisis ranges from symmetric threats like Russia and China, and asymmetric threats like the global war on terrorism and ISIS. Today, we also face growing nuclear threats from rogue nations like Iran and North Korea, as well as hybrid warfare developments ranging from cybersecurity to the arms race in space. “Additionally, my home state of Georgia plays a strategic role in the defense of our country with nine military installations. I stand ready to work with General Mattis in making sure that we continue to fulfill our strategic requirements in Georgia and around the world. I strongly support his nomination, and I look forward to partnering with him as we deal with this global security crisis directly.” Senator Perdue is scheduled to participate in General Mattis’ confirmation hearing on Thursday, January 12 at 9:30 AM. Watch LIVE via C-SPAN.
01.06.2017	01.06.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Electoral College Results “It is time to build consensus and break through the gridlock” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the Joint Session of Congress certified the Electoral College’s ballots for President-elect Donald J. Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence: “The American people sent a clear message to Washington: it is time to shake things up. It is time to build consensus and break through the gridlock. We have an enormous moment of opportunity with a new White House and a new Congress to follow through on delivering results for all Americans. We can set clear priorities with a sense of urgency to start undoing some of the damage that has been done to our economy and standing on the world stage. “To be clear, this is not about securing the legacy of another career politician. We will soon have an outsider and businessman who is listening to people back home in the White House. That’s just the first step. President-elect Donald J. Trump is surrounding himself with a capable team, many of whom have spent their careers outside of the Washington bubble. I look forward to getting this team in place so we can hit the ground running and immediately get to work.” ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Georgians Applaud Senator David Perdue’s Key Committee Assignments Powerful Committees Give Georgia Priorities New Platform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Key Georgia groups and industry leaders are applauding U.S. Senator David Perdue’s new committee assignments for the 115th Congress: Armed Services, Banking, Agriculture, and Budget. Senator Perdue’s role on these powerful committees puts him at the intersection of addressing our national debt crisis and global security crisis. Here’s what they are saying: Defense Groups: Perdue Poised To Promote Defense Priorities Governor’s Defense Initiative: “This appointment is the best news to come out of the new Congress for Georgia's military families, installations, and industry. Senator Perdue will have a strong voice on defense policy and key spending decisions from his seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee. He will bring a common sense approach to the issues and apply his much needed and strong business sense to improve the management of the Pentagon,” said Secretary William Ball, Director, Governor’s Defense Initiative and former Secretary of the U.S. Navy. Georgia National Guard: “I am very glad to hear Senator Perdue will be serving on the Senate Armed Services Committee. His leadership and understanding of DOD enterprise requirements to mitigate the risks to our nation will enhance our military capabilities. Additionally, he has a great concern for our service men and women, their families and the sacrifices they all make to protect our freedom. His tireless efforts to support our nation's military will only increase with his membership on the SASC,” said Brigadier General Joe Jarrard, Adjutant General, Georgia National Guard. Business Leaders: Perdue Proven Champion for Common-Sense Reform Georgia Bankers Association President: “Georgia's bankers are looking forward to working with Senator Perdue as a member of the Senate Banking Committee. He's a proven champion for common-sense bank regulatory reform, and his ideas can really make a difference in getting capital flowing back onto Main Street. His perspective as a leader from a state with a diverse economy that includes a variety of cities, towns, and types of businesses served by an equally diverse group of banks can certainly shape legislation that will be helpful to our economy,” said Joe Brannen, President and CEO, Georgia Bankers Association. Georgia Bankers Association Chairman: “From the meetings I've attended with Senator Perdue during his term, it's clear he knows the direct link the banks serving Georgia's communities have with the financial wellbeing of families and businesses in their hometowns. Our customers rely on us for the safety of their money, access to credit that funds family dreams, business expansion and job growth. Senator Perdue gets that. He brings the right set of skills to the Senate Banking Committee that will help grow our economy,” said Richard E. Drews, Jr. Chairman, Georgia Bankers Association and CEO, Century Bank of Georgia in Cartersville, Georgia. American Transaction Processors Coalition: “Senator Perdue’s real world business experience as an innovator and hands-on executive Fortune 500 CEO gives him a unique perspective for the Senate Banking Committee. He understands the hidden tax of unnecessary regulation and the onerous overreach of the Obama Administration. He will bring a breath of fresh air to entrepreneurs and innovators from one end of Transaction Alley to the other—and beyond,” said West Richards, Executive Director, American Transaction Processors Coalition representing more than 70 Georgia-based financial services technology companies. Agriculture Community: Perdue Strong Voice For Georgia Farmers American Farm Bureau Federation: “As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Perdue has helped provide sound and steady agriculture policy that empowers the innovation and productivity of Georgia agriculture. His work on behalf of Georgia’s farmers and ranchers has helped make Georgia the bread basket of the Southeast. That same dedication also will benefit farm and ranch families across our nation as Senator Perdue serves another term on this very important committee,” said Zippy Duvall, President, American Farm Bureau Federation. Georgia Department of Agriculture: “We are fortunate to have Senator Perdue who understands that agriculture is a fundamental component of our overall economy. We look forward to his continued work on the Senate Agriculture Committee in giving a strong voice to Georgia’s farmers with his tireless efforts to relieve burdensome regulations and ensure our local farmers succeed in growing a strong Georgia,” said Gary Black, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Agriculture. Georgia Agribusiness Council: “We are very pleased Senator Perdue will continue to serve on the Senate Agriculture Committee. His leadership has proven invaluable on issues related to natural resource management, regulatory engagement, and evaluating the impact on farmers and agribusinesses here in Georgia and across America. Our nation has renewed faith in common-sense solutions to real world challenges and Senator Perdue brings the right perspective to deliver for American agriculture,” said Bryan Tolar, President, Georgia Agribusiness Council. Fiscal Groups: Perdue Serious About Fixing Fiscal Issues Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget: “Senator Perdue has worked hard on the Senate Budget Committee to draw attention and find solutions to our nation’s fiscal challenges. While many lawmakers have chosen to bury their heads when it comes to these issues, Senator Perdue has shown courage and leadership and has been willing to stand up for what is right for the country - even when it’s not easy to do so. The longer we wait, the more severe and difficult the choices will be to fix the debt. Yet very few Members of Congress take this problem seriously and act with a sense urgency like Senator Perdue,” said Maya MacGuineas, President, Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. Americans For Prosperity: “We applaud Senator Perdue for his past work in standing up for economic freedom issues in Congress. We look forward to working closely with him during this upcoming session on important issues such as promoting fiscal responsibility and reforming regulations,” said Christine Harbin, Director of Federal Affairs and Strategic Initiatives, Americans For Prosperity. ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Senator David Perdue Discusses Foreign Cyber Threats On Fox News Channel “This is bigger than Russia. It’s bigger than this one incident. This is about the future defense of America.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a new member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, previewed today’s Armed Services hearing on foreign cyber threats and hacking attempts during the 2016 presidential election on Fox News Channel’s “America’s Newsroom” with Bill Hemmer. Click here to watch or click the image below. Wake-Up Call For America: “What we have here is a wake-up call, in my mind. This is bigger than Russia. It’s bigger than this one incident. This is about the future defense of America.” New Cyber Threats Need New Approach: “We now have a four-plus-one series of threats out there. Whereas 20 years ago, we had a one-plus-one. We have Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and now ISIS is also attacking us through cyber-warfare. We know what Russia is doing in Europe today. It’s trying to destabilize the satellite countries in eastern Europe.” Getting The Facts On Foreign Cyber Threats: “I want to know what constitutes as an act of war. This is a hearing about the facts. We’ve been hearing all of the innuendo. I’m anxious to get to the facts and we have some great witnesses here today that can give those to us today.” Key Questions For Intelligence Community: “The President-elect has a high regard for the intelligence community. What he is asking are the questions that we are asking. Are we organized to defend ourselves? Are we ready? Are we prepared to have the appropriate response? What is the appropriate response? Do we have the right intelligence gathering system to do that?” No Evidence Hacking Influenced Election Outcome: “The people of the United States spoke very clearly. It’s no mystery what they were saying. They want a change in direction in the United States federal government here in Washington. They picked an outsider, a business guy, someone listening to them back home, and it had nothing to do with a hack.” Watch the Senate Armed Services hearing LIVE on C-SPAN3 here. ###
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Dr. Ben Carson WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a new member of the Senate Banking Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: “Dr. Carson’s heart for humanity is very impressive, and he will bring that commitment to this new responsibility to meet our nation’s diverse housing and development needs. I look forward to supporting Dr. Carson’s nomination and working together to roll back government regulations impeding economic growth so we can bring positive change to the most under served communities in our country.”
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Senator David Perdue Statement On Meeting With Governor Nikki Haley WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for the Ambassador to the United Nations, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley: “Governor Haley and I had a great meeting today about her vision for America on the world stage and her desire to make the U.N. more transparent to American taxpayers. Governor Haley understands that we are facing a global security crisis and is committed to reversing the dangerous precedent President Obama and his administration have set—one that has confused our allies and emboldened our enemies. We agree that peace and preserving our national sovereignty is the ultimate objective at the U.N., and I look forward to supporting her nomination.” ###
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Senator David Perdue: 2016 A Year In Photos ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today shared a behind the scenes look at his second year as an outsider in the United States Senate. View and download the full gallery of photos here. January 13, 2016: Snapping a selfie with high school students from Georgia in the Russell Rotunda. February 18, 2016: Speaking about issues most important to Georgians in a meeting with the Augusta Metro Chamber of Commerce. March 23, 2016: Touring Fort Benning. April 7, 2016: Listening to testimony in the Senate Judiciary Committee. April 22, 2016: Presenting the Purple Heart to the family of Lieutenant General Franklyn Snyder in Atlanta. May 17, 2016: My wife, Bonnie, and I serving her famous Pecan Cobbler in support of the March of Dimes. June 23, 2016: Hosting a special Senate luncheon prepared by Holly Chute, Senior Executive Chef with the Georgia Department of Agriculture’s Georgia Grown program. August 30, 2016: Making a stop at Pearly’s in Albany for some great home cooking. September 20, 2016: Introducing my friend and colleague South Carolina Senator Tim Scott at the Georgia Chamber of Commerce lunch in Washington. September 24, 2016: Meeting my childhood baseball hero, Hank Aaron, at the historic opening of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. November 7, 2016: Working hard in Congress to change the budget process and how we fund the federal government. December 1, 2016: Speaking with Chief of the Air Force Reserve Headquarters and Commander of the Air Force Reserve Command at Robins Air Force Base, Lieutenant General Maryanne Miller. ###
01.03.2017	01.03.17 Senator David Perdue Announces New Committee Assignments Perdue To Sit On Powerful Armed Services, Banking, Agriculture, Budget Committees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced he will serve on the Armed Services, Banking, Agriculture, and Budget Committees in the 115th Congress. Senator Perdue’s role on these powerful committees will help him better serve the people of Georgia. “Georgia has a long tradition of representation on both the Senate Armed Services and Agriculture committees. I am humbled to carry on this legacy and will make it my priority to promote our Georgia values on these key committees.” As a new member of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Perdue will help shape our national defense priorities and play an integral role in overseeing our military installations in Georgia, throughout the country, and around the world. “The very best of America serves in our armed forces. It is our responsibility to support our military and ensure our troops have the tools they need to protect our homeland and support our allies around the world. We must also look for ways to streamline operations at the Department of Defense so we can dedicate more of our resources to completing our military’s missions and preparing for future challenges.” Senator Perdue will work on the Banking Committee to roll back harmful regulations that are stifling economic growth and discouraging businesses from accessing capital and creating quality jobs. “As a business guy, I’ve had to compete, create jobs, and make business decisions despite the onslaught of unintended consequences coming from Washington. Our current business environment is sucking the life out of our free enterprise system and preventing businesses from accessing capital. We need to dismantle the regulatory regime of Dodd-Frank, encourage entrepreneurial innovation, and unleash economic growth to get Americans working again.” Senator Perdue will continue to serve on the Agriculture Committee where he is a strong voice for Georgia’s farmers and agribusiness. “Agriculture is one of Georgia’s richest assets. It's humbling to represent our farm families and agricultural traditions on this committee. Years of excessive regulations have hurt the farm economy and I will continue to work to both roll-back these regulations and advance Georgia's agricultural interests." Back on the Budget Committee, Senator Perdue is working to reinvent the way Congress funds the federal government so Washington can tackle our debt crisis and protect our nation’s seniors and future generations. “Our country is well past the tipping point in this debt crisis and Washington must get serious about cutting spending, budgeting responsibly, and saving Social Security and Medicare. I will continue to fight for Georgia’s priorities and to build a better future for our kids and grandkids.” Senator Perdue is the only Fortune 500 CEO in Congress. Prior to his election to the U.S. Senate in 2014, Senator Perdue had never held public office and was inspired to shake up Washington and help change the direction of our country.
12.16.2016	12.16.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Renaming of Marietta Post Office for Fallen Local Marine WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the president’s signing of legislation designating the United States Postal Service located at 2886 Sandy Plains Road in Marietta as the “Marine Lance Corporal Squire ‘Skip’ Wells Post Office Building.” “It is gratifying to have signed into law this honor for a true hero from my own hometown,” said Senator Isakson, who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “The book of John, Chapter 15, verse 13 reads: ‘Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one’s life for one’s friends.’ Skip Wells laid down his life for all the people of the United States of America, for his family and his friends. As we did at that time, we continue to ask God to bless and bring mercy to his family and friends.” “The legacy left by U.S. Marine Lance Corporal Skip Wells is one of the highest level of bravery,” said Senator Perdue. “This hero’s willingness to answer the call of duty will never be lost on the people of Georgia and our country. I join all Georgians in commemorating the life of Skip Wells and lifting his family and friends up in prayer.” Background: On July 16, 2015, Marine Lance Corporal Squire K. “Skip” Wells was one of five service members murdered in a terrorist attack at the Naval Reserve Center in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Wells was a 2012 graduate of Sprayberry High School in Marietta, located approximately one mile from the U.S. Postal Office that will now bear his name following the enactment of H.R.5612. Following high school graduation, Wells studied history at Georgia Southern University before enlisting in the U.S. Marine Corps in 2014. His family has a long tradition of military service and Marine Lance Corporal Wells felt called to defend his country. The entire Georgia Congressional delegation co-sponsored this legislation, and Senators Isakson and Perdue worked to ensure its passage in the Senate on December 10, 2016.
12.14.2016	12.14.16 Senators Perdue, Peters Introduce No Hero Left Untreated Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Gary Peters (D-MI) last week introduced the No Heroes Left Untreated Act, legislation that would create a pilot program for innovative medical care for veterans. The senators’ bill is companion legislation to Congressman Steve Knight’s No Hero Left Untreated Act, which was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on June 28, 2016. “Our veterans sacrificed everything to defend our freedoms and it is our responsibility to make sure they get the care they were promised,” said Senator Perdue. “The No Hero Left Untreated Act would establish a pilot program that explores innovative treatment options touted by many leaders in our active forces community. If successful, this pilot program could set a new treatment standard for veterans dealing with traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder. It is our duty to support our veterans and improve their health care options, and I look forward to doing all I can to advance this pilot program.” “The effects of traumas, like PTSD, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain and opiate addiction weighs heavily on many of American’s veterans,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “Magnetic e-Resonance Therapy technology has significant potential to successfully treat these conditions, and establishing a pilot program with the Department of Veterans Affairs will allow our veterans to benefit from this new medical advancement.” The No Hero Left Untreated Act would establish a pilot program at two medical centers within the VA network and enroll up to 50 veterans in Magnetic EEG/ECG-Guided Resonance Therapy for a one-year period. This is an individualized non-pharmaceutical, non-invasive neuromodulation procedure that applies magnetic stimulation to help facilitate neurorestoration of proper brain function. Over 400 veterans have reported a marked improvement in symptoms associated with PTSD, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction. The following organizations have expressed their support in the No Hero Left Untreated Act: U.S. Special Operations Command, Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs, Blue Star Families, Vietnam Veterans of America, Veterans Advantage, American Legion Post 281, 12th Calvary Regiment Association, Patriot Project, Rally Point 6, SEALink Inc, West Care. View S. 3540 here.
12.14.2016	12.14.16 Senator David Perdue Applauds Passage Of State Department Authorization WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development, today released the following statement regarding bipartisan, bicameral passage of the Department of State Operations Authorization and Embassy Security Act, which is now headed to President Obama’s desk for his signature. “I’m pleased that the Senate and House came together to pass the first authorization for the State Department and related programs in 14 years. This sends a strong signal that both houses of Congress are ready to streamline the State Department’s management and take on the poor planning culture that has eroded the effectiveness of our diplomatic and foreign assistance programs under the current administration. “We worked hard to include important provisions that ensure the independence of the State Department Inspector General, increase accountability through annual reporting of embassy construction costs, and study the challenges our Foreign Service families face. I look forward to working with President-elect Donald J. Trump and his team to implement these much-needed reforms to support our men and women working around the world.” The Department of State Operations Authorization and Embassy Security Act included several provisions introduced by Senator Perdue that were approved in the Foreign Relations Committee. The Perdue provisions include: The Improving Department of State Oversight Act, which authorizes the Inspector General to conduct more secure and more efficient oversight of the State Department. A Perdue amendment that requires an annual report on all ongoing embassy construction projects and major embassy security upgrade projects. A Perdue amendment that requires a report on workforce issues and challenges to career opportunities pertaining to tandem couples in the Foreign Service, as well as families where only one spouse in the Foreign Service. A full summary of S.1635, the State Department Authorization bill, is available here.
12.13.2016	12.13.16 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Praise Passage Of Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reauthorization Bill reauthorizes critical training programs headquartered in Georgia WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Representative Earl L. “Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01) today praised the bicameral passage of their legislation to reauthorize Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC). The bipartisan FLETC reauthorization bill will now to go President Obama’s desk for his signature. Reauthorizing our Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers is key to ensuring that our federal law enforcement officials and first responders are adequately trained for national security events, domestic threats, and combating terrorism. The legislation was originally introduced by Congressman Carter and then amended in the Senate by Senator Perdue in order to obtain additional bipartisan support. “The training our law enforcement officers receive each year at Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers is key to ensuring our national security,” said Senator Isakson. “I am proud to fight for FLETC so that its facilities can continue to deliver preeminent training to our federal law enforcement officials. I’m thankful for what FLETC achieves in Glynco, Ga., and this reauthorization is important news.” “We are fortunate FLETC is headquartered in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Every year, FLETC’s facilities deliver a range of training to 96 federal partner organizations and thousands of state, local, and international law enforcement officers. As training needs evolve to combat the growing global security crisis we face today, so do FLETC’s unique capabilities which is why it remains a top training center for many agencies. I applaud the passage of this bill and look forward to seeing it signed into law.” “FLETC is the preeminent facility for law enforcement training in the United States,” said Congressman Carter. “While FLETC has provided topnotch training since its creation, Congress has failed to provide FLETC with a reauthorization. This legislation is critical to ensure authorities are codified into law so FLETC can continue to provide the highest quality and most cost effective training possible. I am thrilled this legislation passed today and I look forward to it becoming law.” Background: Established in the 1970s as a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, FLETC was created to provide cost-effective basic and advanced training for federal law enforcement officers. With the formation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in 2003, FLETC was formally transferred from the Treasury Department to DHS to serve as the law enforcement training hub for a variety of national and international law enforcement personnel and partner organizations. Since its establishment and the department transfer, FLETC has not been reauthorized by Congress. The FLETC main campus is headquartered in Glynco, GA, and has grown over the years to include facilities in Artesia, NM, Charleston, SC, Cheltenham, MD, and Gabarone, Botswana. Today, FLETC supports 96 agencies, trains more than 70,000 students annually, and employs more than 3,000 Georgians and almost 600 New Mexicans. U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) introduced the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act of 2015 in the U.S. House of Representatives, which passed overwhelmingly in December 2015. Senators Isakson and Perdue, along with Senators Tom Udall (D-NM), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM), introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate on April 13, 2016. Both versions of the legislation were amended and passed the Senate by voice vote on Saturday, December 10, 2016. The House agreed to the Senate amendments to the House version today, December 13, 2016. View the full text of the legislation here.
12.13.2016	12.13.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Rex Tillerson Nomination As Secretary Of State WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development, today released the following statement regarding President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State: “While this may seem like a nontraditional choice, after eight years of foreign policy setbacks, we will need to make some bold changes to help re-establish American leadership and credibility around the world. Rex Tillerson has spent his career overseeing one of our nation's largest companies and growing its presence around the world. As both a business guy and chairman of the subcommittee that oversees State Department management, I look forward to hearing from Mr. Tillerson, examining his goals for the State Department, and learning more about his perspective on the global security crisis we face today.”
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Georgia Delegation Urges Army To Equip Hunter Army Airfield Highlight airfield’s capabilities and needs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) were joined by U.S. Representatives Buddy Carter (GA-01), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Austin Scott (GA-08), and Tom Graves (GA-14) in urging the U.S. Army to relocate a helicopter battalion stationed in Europe to Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah, Georgia. “As you work through your priorities in the Strategic Portfolio Analysis Review (SPAR), we would appreciate your consideration of Georgia as a means to support the Army’s continued mission sets, and our nation’s strategic needs,” said the Georgia Congressional Delegation in a letter to General Mark Milley, U.S. Army chief of staff. “A fully-equipped Apache Battalion along our southeastern corridor, coupled with the support infrastructure at Hunter Army Airfield could prove to be a highly lethal force that provides flexibility and options to our Army.” The letter also reinforces the need to move forward with plans to construct necessary hangars at Hunter Army Airfield, which were postponed due to budget restraints brought on by sequestration. “With the planning and design work complete, the [hangar] project is ready to go as soon as funding is made available,” the delegation continued. “We commit that we will do our part and work alongside the Army and the new Administration to help restore this combat aviation capability back to Hunter.” View the full letter here.
12.10.2016	12.10.16 Senator David Perdue: Water Infrastructure Critical To Economic Growth Supports Georgia’s top water infrastructure priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed a water resources bill that supports some of Georgia’s top priorities like the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project: “Water infrastructure is critical to our overall economic growth. In order for us to compete globally, our ports, waterways, and transportation corridors must be maintained and expanded in a timely manner. Our ports are also on the front lines when it comes to protecting our homeland from foreign enemies, therefore, it is vital they are fully functional. Congress’ action will help support the Port of Savannah, which is the fastest growing port in the country and has an economic impact that reaches around the world. “Additionally, I am proud to have worked with our Georgia Congressional Delegation to get Congress out of the ongoing tristate water dispute between Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, which should be resolved at the state level.”
12.10.2016	12.10.16 Senator David Perdue: I Have Heard Every Excuse Under The Sun “Not being from the Washington bubble, I see our government’s out-of-control spending so clearly.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed another short-term funding patch, instead of fully funding the federal government until the end of the fiscal year: “Here we go again. For the 19th consecutive year, Washington has not funded the federal government on time. As the current continuing resolution is expiring in the midnight hour, Congress is once again trying to pass a temporary fix three months after the beginning of the current fiscal year. This is ridiculous. In fact, Congress has only completed the full budget process four times in the past 42 years. Not being from the Washington bubble, I see our government’s out-of-control spending so clearly. We are well past the tipping point in this debt crisis and both political parties are to blame. This is a complete dereliction of duty and demonstrates how broken the system is and why our national debt will soon surpass $20 trillion. “Over the past year, I have heard every excuse under the sun from my Senate colleagues about how this is the only way to get things done, when we all know it’s not. Every other entity in America must balance its budget and do so on time, and Congress is no different. Soon we will have a new president who is an outsider businessman that values budgets and the certainty they bring to businesses and families. I look forward to working with President-elect Donald J. Trump to completely change Washington’s funding process so we can finally begin to set real priorities and debate serious policies that produce results for all Americans.”
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senator David Perdue Supports Military’s Needs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act, sending the critical legislation to President Obama for his signature: “Our troops put their lives on the line for our country, and I will always support their brave work. Today, we are sending President Obama a bipartisan bill that addresses our military's needs by streamlining our defense acquisition process, preventing the closure of the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, and providing our military personnel with a much-needed pay increase. Georgians and military personnel stationed in the Peach State will be pleased to learn that vital programs such as JSTARS surveillance planes, A-10 jets, and Ohio Class replacement submarines are also prioritized to support our women and men on the frontlines. After the past eight years, I am encouraged to finally see our country setting some real priorities, and I look forward to working with President-elect Donald J. Trump and General James Mattis to rebuild our military in order to prepare for future challenges.”
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Senator David Perdue Supports Effort To Boost Medical Innovation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the 21st Century Cures Act, which lays the foundation for the next generation of cures and treatments for life threatening diseases, opioid addition, and mental illness: “Too many of us have watched our loved ones fight cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and various other life threatening diseases. Medical researchers, many of them in Georgia, are hard at work developing lifesaving vaccines and trial treatments. We need to support their research and encourage more innovation and competition in the marketplace. This will not only save lives and drive down costs, but also keep Americans healthier longer. Over the next 20 years as Baby Boomers age, our country’s Medicare and Medicaid costs are expected to skyrocket. This investment now on the front-end will help curb those impending costs.” The 21st Century Cures Act will: Remove barriers to increased research collaboration; Modernize clinical trials; Identify diseases earlier through personalized medicine; and Provide new incentives for the development of drugs for rare diseases.
12.06.2016	12.06.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Study Revealing Costly Pentagon Bureaucracy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement on a study produced last year by the Defense Business Board, which revealed the possibility of saving $125 billion of bureaucratic waste at the Pentagon over five years: “It’s disappointing to learn that a recent study exposing inefficiencies in our military’s bureaucracy was not brought forth to the public. These findings are not surprising, however, given the tremendous growth of the overall federal government bureaucracy under our last two presidents. I am optimistic because this study shows that the potential exists for restructuring the Pentagon’s budget to ensure every dollar is being used as effectively as possible. I look forward to working with President-elect Donald J. Trump and General James Mattis to rebuild our military and rein in our oversized federal government.” Earlier this year, Senator Perdue called for an audit of the Department of Defense and pushed for a more efficient and reliable process to track assets (furniture, equipment, maintenance parts, etc.) through automatic identification technology. He introduced these initiatives through multiple amendments to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to improve fiscal accountability at the Pentagon, but ultimately these amendments were not included in the final bill. The wasted funds identified in this study could, and should, be used instead to invest in vital equipment like the A-10 Thunderbolt II—for which there’s still no replacement; maintain our force structure at a level that makes sense in the world of threats we live in; recap the critical Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) platform, JSTARS; and stave off a major readiness crisis, which includes serious aviation shortfalls within our Marine Corps.
12.02.2016	12.02.16 Senator David Perdue Discusses The Future Of The Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, this week discussed the vacancy on the United States Supreme Court and urged his colleagues to remember the integrity of the advice and consent process. Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to discuss the vacancy on the United States Supreme Court, where we’ve been on this issue, and what needs to happen next year when our next president is sworn in. For months this year, I and other members of this body held our ground in saying that the American people deserved a voice in this process. We talked about how the integrity of the advice and consent process, clearly outlined in Article II, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, was at stake. We outlined years of precedent against nominating and confirming a Supreme Court Justice during a presidential election year. The last time a vacancy arose and a nominee was confirmed in a presidential election year was 1932. 1888 was the last presidential election year in which a Justice was nominated and confirmed by a divided government. Confirming a nominee to the United States Supreme Court should never be distorted by political theater of a presidential election cycle. This is a bipartisan position. Both parties have said what I – and my Republican colleagues – have said all year. Since day one, I have consistently said that no Supreme Court nominee should be considered for the Supreme Court by the Senate before the next president is sworn in. That also meant no consideration during the lame duck either, no matter the outcome of the election. You can’t have it both ways. This was my position before the election, this is still my position today. It was and is about the principle, not the individual. As an outsider to the political process, this was a logical and easy position to take from the very beginning. The process for nominating and confirming a Justice to the United States Supreme Court is enshrined in our Constitution. The hyper-partisanship and politics of a presidential election cycle should have absolutely no place in this process. Confirming any individual to a lifetime appointment to the United States Supreme Court must rise above that kind of political posturing. It must be above any political theater. Furthermore, and as I said previously, the American people deserve a voice in this process. Election Day was not only about changing the direction of our country, but it was also a referendum on the balance of the Supreme Court for generations to come. Our decision to withhold consent on any Supreme Court nominee until after a new president is sworn in protected the integrity of the advice and consent process from political games in a heated presidential campaign cycle. That decision was entirely within the rights and responsibilities of the Senate, as outlined in the Constitution. We did our job, and next year we are going to continue to do that job of advice and consent as we consider the next nomination for the Supreme Court. With a new president sworn in, it will be time for the Senate to confirm a nominee to the United States Supreme Court. The election is over. The people have spoken. Americans have elected a new president. They chose a new direction. I urge members of this body to listen to them, and I urge this body to remember the integrity of the process. I also look forward to hearing from whomever President-elect Trump nominates to serve on the Supreme Court, and having the opportunity to vote on his or her confirmation.”
12.01.2016	12.01.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Extension Of Iran Sanctions Act “We took action to reauthorize key sanctions, giving President-elect Trump a full menu of options to implement against Iran for any future transgressions.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to reauthorize and extend the Iran Sanctions Act: “President Obama never should have waived key sanctions on Iran. Before the ink was dry on his dangerous nuclear deal, the rogue nation test-fired ballistic missiles and accumulated excess heavy water, which could be used for making plutonium bombs. Since then, Iran has continued to threaten our strategic allies in the Middle East and weaponized terrorist groups across the volatile region. Today, we took action to reauthorize key sanctions, giving President-elect Trump a full menu of options to implement against Iran for any future transgressions. I look forward to working with President-elect Trump to hold Iran accountable for its ballistic missile development, support for terrorism, and other illicit activity.” Senator Perdue has introduced several pieces of legislation to hold Iran accountable, including a bill to prohibit cash payments to state sponsors of terror, and another to improve oversight of the implementation of President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran.
11.30.2016	11.30.16 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Applaud Army Announcement For Fort Stewart WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-1) today applauded the decision by the U.S. Army to create a new Armor Brigade Combat Team at Fort Stewart in Hinesville. The Army will convert 3rd Infantry Division’s 2nd Brigade Combat Team to an Armor Brigade Combat team. The conversion is set to begin in summer 2017. This will be the second Armor Brigade Combat team located at Fort Stewart. Currently there are nine active duty Armor Brigade Combat Teams and five National Guard Armor Brigade Combat Teams stationed throughout the United States. “The addition of another Armor Brigade Combat Team to Fort Stewart’s 3rd Infantry Division continues to highlight Georgia’s role in our nation’s ability to project power and provide security assurance to our allies,” said Senator Isakson. “This decision by the U.S. Army underscores our ability to host critical strategic assets capable of deterrence around the world.” “The Army’s announcement is great news and exhibits a continued commitment to our nation’s defense capabilities in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “The additional armored brigade at Fort Stewart provides us with a more lethal army, increasing our ability to counter the rise of Russian aggression against our European allies as well as other threats around the globe. This is a testament to the proficiency and growing capability of all the dedicated military and civilian personnel at Fort Stewart.” “This announcement is great news for our community as well as our national security as it strengthens the capabilities of the 3rd Infantry Division and Fort Stewart,” said Congressman Carter. “As the threats we face around the world continue to increase and evolve, the additional Armored Brigade Combat team will be critical in addressing them. Without question, this decision is a direct reflection of the great work of the fine men and women on post. Fort Stewart remains one of the premier Army installations in the nation, and I will continue to work to ensure Fort Stewart keeps growing.” Background: As the security situation in Europe continues to deteriorate, the U.S. Department of Defense is reassessing its posture and ability to respond to those threats. Due to basing decisions and budget constraints, the U.S. no longer has permanent armor assets, such as tanks, stationed in Europe. To accommodate for this deficit, Regionally Aligned Forces were established to provide the United States and our allies with additional security assurance by rotating forces through Europe and other areas of the world. The 1st Armor Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, at Fort Stewart recently returned home from the Regionally Aligned Forces mission in October where they participated in joint exercises with NATO partner nations in response to Russia’s actions in the Ukraine. Growing threats from near-peer adversaries in Europe and elsewhere around the world have increased the demand for additional armored units to defend U.S. interests and our allies. The Army’s conversion of the Armor Brigade Combat team at Fort Stewart brings the total number of Armor Brigade Combat units located throughout the United States to 15.
11.29.2016	11.29.16 Senator David Perdue Statement Secretary Elaine Chao Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement on media reports that President-elect Donald J. Trump has selected former U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao to head the U.S. Department of Transportation: “It is no secret that our nation’s transportation infrastructure is in need of repair and I can think of no one better than Secretary Chao to oversee the modernization of our roads, airways, and bridges. Her experience as Secretary of Labor and Deputy Secretary for Department of Transportation have provided her with the knowledge needed to lead this critical agency. Having worked with Secretary Chao, I am confident she will provide President-elect Trump with sound advice on the transportation issues impeding economic growth and mobility in our country. We all share the goal of making our economy competitive again, and I look forward to working with her to seeing this goal through.”
11.29.2016	11.29.16 Senator David Perdue Discusses President-elect Trump’s 100-Day Plan On CNBC WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today on CNBC’s Squawk Box highlighted some of the priorities he intends to work on with President-elect Donald J. Trump to change the direction of our country. Click here to watch the video or click on the image below. Changing Directions: “I think realistically we're going to get after Obamacare. [President-elect Trump] said that and I think that's possible. We've got to do a budget to get there. I think we're going to go after some of the things we did last year that were vetoed—the Keystone Pipeline, Waters of the U.S. repeal, Clean Power Plan repeal—and look at some of the things inside Dodd-Frank that are keeping us from lending in small towns in America.” Jumpstarting the Economy: “I would love to repeal Dodd-Frank. I think it’s one of the most onerous, overreaching pieces of legislation in my lifetime. It's shutting down small town America in terms of lending and capital formation. This economic miracle of the last 70 years was really built on innovation, capital formation, and the rule of the law, and we've gotten away from some of those principles.” Streamlining the Tax Code: “We need to clean up the [tax] code. They’ve been saying that up here [in Washington] for 30 years with no action. President-elect Trump is talking about an individual tax reduction for potential growth. I'd like to also talk about cleaning up the deductions on corporate earnings, get rid of corporate welfare, and reduce the corporate rate to be competitive with the rest of the world, and finally eliminate the repatriation tax.”
11.29.2016	11.29.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Congressman Tom Price Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement on media reports that President-elect Donald J. Trump has chosen U.S. Representative Tom Price (R-GA-06) to lead the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services: “Tom is a fellow Georgian who understands that we need to stop Washington's takeover of our health care system. As a doctor, he is seen as a leading voice on health care policy and has a common-sense plan to replace Obamacare that will lower costs and put patients in charge of their health care choices. I’ve had the opportunity to work closely with Tom, and there is no doubt in my mind that he will do a fantastic job improving our nation’s health care system and the lives of all Americans.”
11.22.2016	11.22.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Visit To Guantanamo WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations and Senate Judiciary Committees, today issued the following statement about his visit yesterday to the U.S. detention facility at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba: “Yesterday, I visited the detention facility at Guantanamo, where I toured the barracks and courtroom and spoke with commanders. One thing was imminently clear to me: it is positively irresponsible to release or transfer the remaining detainees. This flies in the face of reason when the most recent intelligence report shows that the number of former detainees returning to the fight continues to rise. In fact, President Obama's own Guantanamo Review Task Force has deemed the majority of the remaining detainees as too dangerous to transfer. We can’t allow a political promise to get in the way of our national security. I will do all I can to ensure that President Obama doesn’t empty Guantanamo Bay during his last few weeks in office.” On his second day in office, January 22, 2009, President Obama issued an executive order directing the closure of the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. Recognizing the risk of released detainees returning to terrorist activity, Congress put in place restrictions to prohibit President Obama from closing the facility and transferring detainees stateside. These restrictions remain today but in a last-ditch effort to fulfill his campaign promise, President Obama last week announced his desire to transfer additional detainees from Guantanamo Bay. ###
11.18.2016	11.18.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Attorney General Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination of U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) for Attorney General: “Jeff's extensive legal career and experience make him a natural fit to lead our nation's Justice Department. His knowledge and dedication to our judicial system have been evident during my work with him on the Senate Judiciary Committee. I look forward to continue working with Jeff to make our country safer for all Americans.”
11.10.2016	11.10.16 Senator David Perdue Thanks America’s Veterans ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following video statement in observance of Veterans Day, Friday, November 11, 2016: Click here to watch the video or click on the image below. Transcript: “We stop today to honor and reflect on the sacrifices and contributions all of our veterans have made for our great country. I wouldn’t be standing here today without the dedicated service and commitment, and sacrifices really, of everybody that has worn the uniform. You know, I get to travel the world as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee and I can tell you that the best, and I mean the very best, of America is in uniform today protecting our rights as Americans. I want everybody to know how much it means to me and the people of Georgia that today we stop for a second and remember our heroes and our veterans—the men and women in uniform. Thank you.”
10.28.2016	10.28.16 Senator David Perdue Announces November Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of November. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s November mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Central Savannah River Area Wednesday, November 9 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Columbia County Farm Bureau 330 W. Milledgeville Road Harlem, Ga 30814 Middle Georgia Monday, November 21 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Morris-Little American Legion Post 6 231 Log Cabin Road NE Milledgeville, GA 31061
10.26.2016	10.26.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Pentagon’s Recoupment of National Guard Enlistment Bonuses WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released a statement regarding the Pentagon’s recoupment of cash bonuses awarded to members of the California National Guard: “We simply cannot afford to treat our service members so callously. Recent news of the Pentagon recoupment of National Guard re-enlistment bonuses is yet another disappointing example of why our Department of Defense needs tighter management of its budget, with frequent audits. The retrieval of bonuses given to our Guard men and women affects morale within our units, and impacts their ability to provide for themselves and their families after answering our nation’s call to serve. This issue has already affected thousands of Guard members in other states, and I have been reassured that no such recoupment efforts are occurring in Georgia. I applaud Secretary Ash Carter for working to resolve this issue, and will continue to seek answers from the National Guard and the Pentagon about how this was allowed to happen.” Senator Perdue previously introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2017 that requires the Department of Defense to take additional steps to comply with a federal audit in 2018.
10.18.2016	10.18.16 Chairman David Perdue Statement On State Department’s Cover-Up Attempt WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, today released the following statement after documents revealed a State Department Under Secretary attempted to bribe and “pressure” the FBI to protect then-Secretary Hillary Clinton during the bureau’s investigation of her private email server: “The careless and calculated behavior we have seen from then-Secretary Hillary Clinton and her allies at the State Department is appalling. Using political power to bribe and pressure law enforcement officers during an investigation is simply wrong. In light of these new details from the Clinton investigation, the Obama Administration has two choices: investigate Under Secretary Kennedy and everyone involved in this scandal or be complicit in a cover-up. Erroneously putting top secret information at risk is inexcusable.”
10.13.2016	10.13.16 Senators Demand Answers On American Aircraft Sales To Iranian Airline With Ties To Terrorism Iran Air continues to fly from known Islamic Revolutionary Guard bases in Iran to Syria WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are pressing the Obama Administration for answers about its decision to approve licenses for the sale of nearly 200 commercial aircraft to Iran Air, an airline the U.S. government sanctioned years ago for transporting rockets and missiles on behalf of Iranian entities known to support terror and regional instability like the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). President Obama’s Iran Deal removed U.S. sanctions against Iran Air but the airline has continued to engage in activities that may constitute violations of U.S. and international law. On September 8, 2016, an Iran Air flight left Tehran, made a stopover at the IRGC’s primary resupply location at Abadan Airport, and then continued on to Damascus. The flight patterns and the stops at known IRGC resupply locations are highly suspicious and suggest that Iran Air may be involved in Iran’s efforts to support the murderous Assad regime. “To date, we have seen no proof of a change in the conduct that prompted the initial sanctions on Iran Air,” wrote the senators. “In fact, we have seen evidence to the contrary. Open source reports have shown that Iran Air continues to fly from known IRGC bases in Iran to Syria. While Mahan Air – which remains under U.S. sanctions – has been the primary airline for sending military supplies and personnel to Syria, Iran Air has flown dozens of similar routes.” “Specifically, we are concerned that Iran Air could allow airlines that remain under sanctions to use these planes through informal arrangements, thanks to the recently-granted licenses,” continued the senators. “The combined Airbus and Boeing deals will provide Iran Air with nearly 200 planes – a huge leap from its current fleet of 36 aircraft. Even assuming that Iran Air significantly expands its routes over the next decade, 200 planes are more than the airline can reasonably absorb. As a result, it is not unreasonable to suspect that Iran will allow other Iranian carriers—including those that are still sanctioned—such as Mahan Air, to use these planes through informal arrangements.” View the senators’ letter to the U.S. Department of the Treasury here.
10.13.2016	10.13.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Raise Concerns Over $1.7 Billion Cash Payment To Iran Send letter to Pentagon officials demanding answers to security issues WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) this week raised concerns that the Obama Administration failed to notify top U.S. military officials, including the U.S. Secretary of Defense, about its $1.7 billion cash ransom payment to Iran. The senators also said they are troubled by reports that Iran has funneled this American taxpayer money into its own military budget. In a letter to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, regarding their recent testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, the senators raise serious concerns regarding the Obama Administration’s $1.7 billion cash ransom payment to the Islamic Republic of Iran, which is designated by the State Department as a state sponsor of terrorism. “We are deeply concerned that President Obama and the rest of the administration did not think it was necessary to even notify the Secretary of Defense or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the United States was about to provide the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with $1.7 billion in cash,” the letter reads. Following reports that Iran has funneled this money into its military budget, the letter goes on to note that the payment may further embolden Iran, resulting in our troops and allies confronting more lethal and better-equipped adversaries. The letter states, “It seems clear that the Obama Administration’s injection of substantial, liquid financial resources into Iran’s military budget also has significant and obvious implications for America’s national security interests and required military posture in the Middle East.” The letter was led by U.S. Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and in addition to Senators Isakson and Perdue, was signed by Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), James Inhofe (R-OK), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Thom Tillis (R-NC), David Vitter (R-LA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and James Lankford (R-OK). View the senators’ letter here.
10.12.2016	10.12.16 Senator David Perdue: Court Rules CFPB Current Structure Unconstitutional “We’ve seen this agency use its unconstitutional power structure to collect Americans’ financial information” WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after a three-judge panel on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is unconstitutionally structured and recommended giving additional power to the president: “The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals agrees the CFPB’s current structure is unconstitutional and the agency is ripe for abuse. President Obama created this rogue agency under the guise of ensuring the financial security of hard-working Americans. Since that time, we’ve seen this agency use its unconstitutional power structure to collect Americans’ financial information. “Since coming to the United States Senate, I’ve fought to shine light on the CFPB. It's unfortunate that our courts had to remind Congressional Democrats what Americans have always known: a separation of powers and checks and balances are what the people expect. However, simply handing the president more power over this agency, as the court demanded, does not solve the problem. The CFPB should be subject to Congressional oversight. If the CFPB wants to continue to impose rules and regulations that impact every American’s financial well-being, it must answer to the American people.” Currently, the CFPB operates under the Federal Reserve and is permitted by the Dodd-Frank Act to draw up to 12 percent of the Fed’s annual operating budget. Given the expansive reach of the CFPB, Senator Perdue introduced the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Accountability Act of 2015 to bring the agency under the Congressional appropriations process. Similar legislation is sponsored by U.S. Representative Sean Duffy (R-WI-07) and recently passed the House Financial Services Committee. Additionally, Senator Perdue amended the 2015 Budget Resolution to include CFPB oversight measures outlined in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Accountability Act.
10.12.2016	10.12.16 Senators Isakson & Perdue Survey Hurricane Matthew Damage, Meet With First Responders ATLANTA, GA – After visiting communities impacted by Hurricane Matthew and meeting with first responders, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement: “Thanks to the cooperation and hard work of Governor Nathan Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and all of the local elected officials, first responders and medical personnel, our recovery from Hurricane Matthew is progressing well,” said Isakson. “Senator Perdue and I will continue working together and doing all we can to support storm recovery efforts.” “Hurricane Matthew was one of largest storms our state has seen in decades,” said Senator Perdue. “While many areas were fortunate to have only sustained manageable damage, four Georgians lost their lives and many experienced significant flooding from the storm surge. Since the storm hit, our first responders, the Georgia National Guard, the Georgia Department of Transportation, and the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency have been working around the clock to reopen roads and clear debris so power can be restored. I remain in constant communication with Governor Deal’s office, and our state and federal agencies, as they work to get our coastal communities up and running again.” On Sunday, Senators Isakson and Perdue joined Governor Deal and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) in visiting Georgia communities impacted by Hurricane Matthew. They flew over the coastal areas to survey the damage and met with first responders, Georgia Department of Transportation, Georgia National Guard Brigadier General Joe Jarrard, Mayor Eddie DeLoach of Savannah, and local emergency management agency officials on the ground. Governor Deal has lifted the mandatory evacuation order and local governments are coordinating re-entry operations. Residents and business owners should check with their county EMAs to ensure they meet all re-entry restrictions. • Bryan County EMA - (912) 858-2799 • Camden County EMA - (912) 729-5602 • Chatham County EMA - (912) 201-4500 • Glynn County EMA - (912) 554-7826 • Liberty County EMA - (912) 368-2201 • McIntosh County EMA - (912) 269-0534 A State of Emergency remains in effect for 30 counties. In response to Hurricane Matthew, President Obama issued an Emergency Declaration for Georgia to provide direct federal assistance and a Disaster Declaration for Georgia to provide grants from the Public Assistance Program. For additional updates, please visit the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency here.
10.11.2016	10.11.16 Senator David Perdue Announces October Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of October. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s October mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Middle Georgia Wednesday, October 12 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Dooly County Chamber of Commerce 117 East Union Street Vienna, GA 31902 West Georgia Wednesday, October 19 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Douglas County Chamber of Commerce Conference Room 6658 Church Street Douglasville, GA 30134 Central Savannah River Area Friday, October 21 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Burke County Chamber of Commerce 241 East 6th Street Waynesboro, GA 30830
10.06.2016	10.06.16 Senators Isakson & Perdue Urge Georgians To Heed Safety Precautions, Prepare For Hurricane Matthew ATLANTA, GA – As Hurricane Matthew approaches Georgia, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today urged Georgians to follow state and local officials’ safety guidance and prepare as six coastal counties are under a mandatory evacuation as of today, and a voluntary evacuation remains in effect for coastal county residents west of I-95. The storm is expected to begin affecting Georgia by Friday, October 7, 2016. “Hurricane Matthew is showing signs of delivering potentially serious damage to the eastern coastline of Georgia,” said Senator Isakson. “I urge coastal Georgians to take heed of the warnings and evacuate as necessary, while remaining calm and patient in difficult circumstances. My prayers go out to the medical personnel, emergency workers, first responders and those who must remain behind. I applaud Governor Deal for early evacuation and emergency mobilization efforts in our state and am working closely with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the storm moves closer to Georgia. Senator Perdue and I will work together in the Senate and do all we can to support the efforts of federal, state and local governments as they respond to this storm.” “Hurricane Matthew is a life-threatening storm that has the potential to impact many Georgians,” said Senator Perdue. “Parts of our state are directly in the storm's path. For your safety and for the safety of our first responders, take this storm seriously and evacuate high risk areas immediately. Governor Deal, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the American Red Cross have done a great job preparing for Hurricane Matthew and will continue to assist Georgians as the situation develops. My team stands ready to help, but the most important thing right now is to heed these warnings and move to a safe area as soon as possible.” Senators Isakson and Perdue also reminded Georgians that they can find information on preparedness efforts and storm updates from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency by visiting www.gema.ga.gov. Individuals can also visit http://ready.ga.gov/ or www.listo.gov to learn evacuation routes and preparedness tips for tropical storms and hurricanes. In accordance with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency’s hurricane preparedness advice, Senators Isakson and Perdue urged Georgians to follow these safety precautions if a hurricane is likely in your area: Listen to the radio or TV or download the Ready Georgia app. Secure your home, close storm shutters and secure outdoor objects or bring them indoors. Turn off utilities if instructed to do so. Otherwise, turn the refrigerator thermostat to its coldest setting and keep its doors closed. Learn how to keep food safe in an emergency. Turn off propane tanks. Avoid using the phone, except for serious emergencies. Moor your boat if time permits. Have a supply of water for sanitary purposes such as cleaning and flushing toilets. Fill the bathtub and other larger containers with water. As of Thursday morning, Governor Deal has ordered a mandatory evacuation of six coastal Georgia counties: Bryan, Chatham, Liberty, McIntosh, Glynn and Camden. Georgians directed by local authorities to evacuate should be sure to follow local authority’s instructions. In addition, Georgians outside of these counties but within the storm’s wake should evacuate under the following conditions: If you live in a mobile home or temporary structure – such shelters are particularly hazardous during a hurricane no matter how well fastened to the ground. If you live in a high-rise building – hurricane winds are stronger at higher elevations. If you live on the coast, on a floodplain, near a river, or on an island waterway. If you are unable to evacuate, go to a safe room. If you do not have one, follow these guidelines: Stay indoors during the hurricane and away from windows and glass doors. Close all interior doors – secure and brace external doors. Take refuge in a small interior room, closet or hallway on the lowest level. If flooding occurs, be prepared to take shelter on a floor above the flooding. Avoid elevators. Senators Isakson and Perdue urged evacuees to bring water, non-perishable snacks and emergency supplies for their journeys, be aware of fellow travelers, and make careful assessments before returning home. Before evacuating, Georgians should: Move electronics, valuables and important documents to a safe place. Roll up area rugs where possible and store them on higher floors or elevations. Shut off electrical service at the main breaker if the electrical system and outlets may be under water. If you incur expenses due to protecting your home in preparation for coming storms and flooding – such as purchasing sandbags – you may be able to file a claim against your National Flood Insurance Program flood policy for reimbursement. Call your insurance agent to discuss your coverage and learn more. The American Red Cross has available a list of locations where evacuees can seek safe shelter, hot meals and essential relief supplies on their website here: http://www.redcross.org/get-help/disaster-relief-and-recovery/find-an-open-shelter. After the hurricane, local authorities may not be able to immediately provide information about what is happening and what you should do. Residents should listen to NOAA Weather Radio, watch local TV, or check the internet often for official news and instructions as they become available. In addition, these guidelines are recommended for staying safe after Hurricane Matthew: Stay out of flood waters, if possible. The water may be contaminated or electrically charged. However, should you find yourself trapped in your vehicle in rising water get out immediately and seek higher ground. Be alert for tornadoes and flooding. If you see a funnel cloud or if local authorities issue a tornado warning take shelter underground or in an interior room away from windows. If waters are rising quickly or local authorities issue a flood or flash flood warning, seek higher ground. Stay away from downed power lines to avoid the risk of electric shock or electrocution. Do not return to your home until local authorities say it is safe. Even after the hurricane and once flood waters recede, roads may be weakened and could collapse. Buildings may be unstable, and drinking water may be contaminated. Use common sense and exercise caution.
10.03.2016	10.03.16 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue’s Clean Page Approach To Fixing Washington’s Broken Budget Process WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, recently shared a draft proposal to fix Washington’s broken budget process and called on Congress to adopt a clean page approach and politically neutral platform to fund the federal government. Here are some highlights: Roll Call: Senator David Perdue Seeks Radical Changes To Budget Process: “Senate Republican freshmen have seen enough to know that the way Congress approaches the federal budget is broken. And a prospective fix that one of them is unveiling Thursday is nothing short of radical — at least by the standards of the often creaky Senate. Georgia Republican David Perdue is proposing to break down the wall between authorizing and appropriating — a way of doing business that, by design, would upend the 1974 Budget Act… ‘We're not just complaining about the status quo, and again, we're not complaining about the other side. There are no innocent parties when it comes to this debt crisis,’ Perdue said.” (Republican Senator Seeks Radical Changes to Budget Process, 9/29/2016) The Hill: Restive GOP Freshmen Eye Changes To Budget Process: “Senate Republican frustrated with Washington’s spending are pushing for dramatic reforms. The calls are coming from freshmen GOP senators stunned that only one appropriations bill was sent to President Obama’s desk. The most ambitious proposal is from Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), a former CEO of Dollar General and Reebok, who is appalled by Congress’s ability to meet deadlines or make any meaningful progress toward entitlement reform. Perdue says Congress should consider taking Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid — the country’s three biggest mandatory spending programs — off of autopilot and empowering lawmakers to reauthorize their spending levels on an annual or biennial basis.” (Restive GOP freshmen eye entitlement reform, 10/01/2016) Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Senator David Perdue Unveils Ambitious Plan to Rewrite Congress’ Budget Rules: “The former Fortune 500 CEO spent months surveying his Senate colleagues for ideas about how Congress could, for the first time in roughly two decades, pass its 12 annual spending bills on time. He also studied examples from foreign governments and the corporate world. The result is a sweeping proposal that would fundamentally change the nation’s budget laws for the first time in more than 40 years.” (Senator David Perdue unveils ambitious plan to rewrite Congress’ budget rules, 9/29/2016) Albany Herald: Washington’s Federal budgeting process a perpetual failure: “One thing has become undeniable — the current way of constructing a federal budget doesn’t work. The reason may be the process is intrinsically flawed or members of Congress simply don’t have the will or ability to do the job, but the budgeting process, as it stands now, is dead on arrival every September…Indeed, it would be marvelous to see Congress properly handle this, its most basic function. It’s time to toss this dysfunctional budget process and replace it with a workable solution.” (Editorial: Washington’s Federal budgeting process a perpetual failure, 9/29/2016) Politico Pro: Senator David Perdue Presents Solutions For Budget Plan: “[Perdue] sat down with reporters Thursday to talk a little about his plan, which includes: having the budget hold the force of law and not just be a resolution; make all spending (including entitlement programs) and revenue part of the annual funding process; restructure the budget and appropriations committees; and withhold compensation from lawmakers, members of the administration and staff if funding deadlines are missed.” (Politico Pro: Budget & Appropriations Brief, 9/30/2016) Bloomberg BNA: Sen. Perdue Has Plan That Would Consolidate Committees: “The plan would make major organizational changes by consolidating the appropriations and authorizations committees in the Senate into subject-area policy committees and create an ‘executive committee’ for appropriations made up of the chairmen and chairwomen of the committees and the ranking members. That committee would decide on an overall spending number for the upcoming fiscal year and the allocations for the policy committees. Perdue said his effort, which has included talking to fellow freshmen Republican senators and Democratic senators, was complementary to Enzi's initiatives, not in opposition to it.” (Sen. Perdue has Plan that would Consolidate Committees, 9/30/2016) CQ Roll Call: Senator David Perdue Proposes Dramatic Reshaping Of Budget Process: “Under Perdue’s proposed realignment, the Senate Finance Committee would set the total revenue level at the start of the year...The Executive Committee would set the spending topline and the 12 policy committee allocations, and later package the dozen bills reported by the policy committees into four large spending bills covering defense and veterans; health care, including Medicare and Medicaid; retirement, including Social Security and federal employee retirement; and, in the fourth bill, all other government programs. The policy committees would combine the duties of authorizing and appropriating programs.” (CQ Roll Call: Perdue Proposes Dramatic Reshaping of Budget Process, 9/29/2016) Washington Examiner: Senator David Perdue Suggests Severe Consequences if Congress Fails To Pass Budget On Time: “Sen. David Perdue, a freshman Republican from Georgia, said that there needed to be ‘severe consequences’ if Congress fails to pass a budget, which is why he included the no-pay provision in an outline of budget process reform shared with reporters Thursday. Docking the pay of members of Congress or the administration would not be enough to sway lawmakers like himself, he said.” (Washington Examiner: Republican's idea for forcing a budget: Docking staffers' pay, 9/30/2016) The Committee For A Responsible Federal Budget: Senator David Perdue Leads Conversation On How To Fix Washington's Broken Budget Process: “[Perdue] noted that while budget process reform would not solve the problem with our growing debt, it will not be possible to address the debt without reforming the budget process. He said that reforms should provide a politically neutral process to make decisions in a timely and responsible manner…We commend Senator Perdue and his colleagues for calling attention to the need for reforms of the budget process and their continuing work on reforms that the Senate can consider.” (Senator David Perdue Leads Conversation On How To Fix Washington's Broken Budget Process, 9/30/2016)
09.30.2016	09.30.16 Senator David Perdue Introduces Bill To Prohibit Cash Payments To State Sponsors Of Terror WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, this week introduced legislation that would prohibit the federal government from providing cash or precious metal payments to nations designated as state sponsors of terrorism. “It is our job to safeguard Americans’ tax dollars and fund the government’s primary responsibilities like providing for the national defense,” said Senator Perdue. “That’s why it is unbelievable this legislation is even necessary. Untraceable cash payments should not be going to nations supporting terrorism or other nefarious activities—period. This bill prohibits the federal government from providing cash or precious metal payments to state sponsors of terror, like the $1.7 billion cash payment President Obama paid Iran earlier this year.” Currently, U.S. law does not prohibit the U.S. government from providing a cash or equivalent payment to a nation designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. This is a serious loophole, as we learned with the Obama Administration’s recent cash payment of $1.7 billion to Iran. Cash is impossible to track; therefore, cash should not be provided to nations with a track record of supporting terrorism. The State Department currently lists Iran, Syria, and Sudan as state sponsors of terrorism. North Korea, which is also prohibited from receiving cash payments by the legislation, was removed from the state sponsors of terror list in 2008, but still exhibits provocative behavior and continues to flaunt multiple United Nations Security Council Resolutions regarding ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons. View the full text of S.3443 here.
09.29.2016	09.29.16 Senator David Perdue Leads Conversation On How To Fix Washington’s Broken Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, yesterday led his colleagues in a conversation on the Senate floor about fixing Washington’s broken budget process. Senator Perdue was joined by Senate Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senator James Lankford (R-OK), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD), Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). Click here to watch the Senators’ full speeches or click on the image below. Highlights: Senator Perdue: “Right now, we have a budget crisis. We have a debt crisis. Fixing the budget process will not solve the debt crisis, but we will not solve the debt crisis unless and until we address the dysfunction in our budget process.” Senator Tillis: “This is a threat to our national security. This is a threat to our economic security. This is a threat to the security of every man and woman in the United States because they can’t rely on a government that will provide businesses or individuals with any kind of certainty whatsoever. It’s tough to make budget decisions, but they need to be made.” Senator Lankford: “We’re not going to get a better product, until we have a better process. Let’s solve how we do budgeting and actually get to a better product…Step one—like an AA group—let’s admit there is a problem. There is a problem. Step two—let’s get to work on fixing it and actually resolve the process, and let’s actually get to work balancing and paying off our debt.” Chairman Enzi: “I remember introducing [Senator Perdue] the first time we had a Budget Committee meeting, and I said, ‘Senator Perdue knows how to balance a budget, he’s been working in the private sector.’ And he said, ‘No, in the private sector you have to show a little bit of a profit.’ Well we’re going to have to show a little bit of profit around here if we’re ever going to get rid of the debt.” Senator Corker: “We really don’t have a budget process. I mean to even call what we do a budget, per most human beings’ understanding of what a budget is, is obviously not realistic…We have to, in essence, get a process in place that actually works. It’s impossible for the process we have today to work. Today, is a perfect example of that, right?” Senator Ernst: “We can’t keep spending money we don’t have on things that aren’t necessary. Washington can’t even do the basic business of balancing our own budget…It might just take a complete overhaul of Washington’s ways to help us solve this problem.” Senator Rounds: “We have to begin the process of fixing this broken [budget] system and we need to begin now. In 2026, our country turns 250 years old. Wouldn’t it be a marvelous goal if by that time we not only had this process fixed, but it was actually working once again?” Senator Sullivan: “A lot of us ran for office – a lot of us for the first time – because we saw what is going on with this budget process…We have all been working on this for months this is what we need to do to finally get ahold of these enormous budget challenges. I want to encourage all of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to join in this process to bring your ideas to fix what is clearly a broken process.” Senator Daines: “The biggest hurdle to balancing the budget are the very rules, the very process, that guides this institution. They are broken…We came here not to accept the status quo but to reject it, and to change the way this country operates truly to save the future of our kids and our grandkids.”
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Override Obama’s Veto Of Bill Helping 9/11 Families WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today released the following statement after voting to override President Obama’s veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA), bipartisan legislation which allows families of the victims of the September 11, 2011 terrorist attacks seek financial compensation from foreign sponsors of terrorism: “On September 11, 2001, our country suffered a great loss and no one understands this more than the families of the victims. I am disappointed that President Obama is acting as a roadblock in these families’ fight for justice. They deserve their day in court, and I am proud that the Senate has voted to override this veto.” Under current law, U.S. federal courts are generally not allowed to hear lawsuits brought against foreign nations due to the doctrine of foreign sovereign immunity. JASTA would amend current law and allow federal courts to hear lawsuits that are brought against foreign nations that knowingly or recklessly support individuals or organizations involved in committing acts of terrorism. JASTA passed the U.S. Senate unanimously on May 17, 2016, and passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on September 9, 2016. President Obama vetoed the legislation September 23, 2016. Now, since the Senate has voted to override the veto, two-thirds of the members of House must vote to override the President’s veto in order for JASTA to become law.
09.27.2016	09.27.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Temporary Grounding Of Four JSTARS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement about the grounding of four Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) planes, critical surveillance assets based at Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia: “JSTARS is the premier battle-management command and control asset used in theater today and for the foreseeable future. Although the safety concerns with the aircraft have been remedied, the decision by General Pawlikowski to ground these four planes is a reminder that our troops need a swift and effective recapitalization of the JSTARS fleet. “Our JSTARS planes are over 60 years old and under the current recapitalization plan, our Combatant Commanders would face a service gap that could last anywhere between four to eight years. Soon, the fleet will not be able to properly fulfill their missions and their absence will put our women and men in uniform unnecessarily in harm’s way. “This is yet another illustration that our national debt crisis and global security crisis are interlocked inextricably. Until we solve this national debt crisis, our military will not have the training and equipment they need to fulfill their missions and face growing threats. It’s time that Washington faces up to both crises.” Senator Perdue is in constant communication with our military leaders and Team JSTARS about the needs of their critical missions. During debate of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Senator Perdue and Senator Isakson offered two amendments to ensure JSTARS is maintained as a national defense priority. Additionally, Senator Perdue and Senator Isakson published an opinion piece in Real Clear Defense to emphasize the importance of JSTARS and urge the Pentagon to fully support the fleet’s recapitalization.
09.24.2016	09.24.16 Senator David Perdue Attends National African American History Museum Dedication WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, today released the following statement after attending the dedication ceremony for the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture: “Today, was nothing short of historic and it was a privilege to attend the dedication ceremony of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. Georgia’s own John Lewis has worked tirelessly on this museum through inception to completion. Bonnie and I applaud everyone—the curators, architects, builders, donors, and most importantly, the African American community—on the opening of this new museum, which powerfully captures an important part of our nation’s history and will teach future generations so much about their fellow Americans.” U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) snaps a selfie with his wife, Bonnie Perdue, U.S. Representative Sanford Bishop (GA-02), U.S. Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04), Vivian Bishop, and Mereda Johnson at a White House reception in honor of the museum opening. Georgians traveling to the nation’s capital to visit the museum, or any of the Smithsonian museums, can contact Senator Perdue’s offices for information on tours of the U.S. Capitol, Washington Monument, Library of Congress, and other national landmarks. View pictures of Senator Perdue at the dedication here.
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senator David Perdue Highlights Regulatory Burdens Facing Georgia Farmers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today questioned U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack about the regulatory burdens facing Georgia’s farmers. Click here to watch Senator Perdue question Secretary Vilsack or click on the image below. Highlights Economic Impact: “Georgia agriculture is very important...The agriculture and timber industry employs over half a million people. They are our best conservationists in the state. We’re the number one state for peanuts, broilers, pecans, blueberries, and number two in cotton.” Expresses Regulatory Concerns: “I’m concerned about regulation. Everywhere that I go, I talk to our farmers. Regulation is the number one topic [of concern], then comes labor.” Cites Cotton Compliance Issues: “We lost a billion dollars over the last decade in our cotton industry alone to pests and weeds, but the EPA has not approved the herbicide that works in conjunction with the approved traits…With you being the voice of agriculture, how do we improve the communication and collaboration with the other regulatory bodies to ensure we are getting producers the tools they need as quickly as possible? The farmers want to comply. The problem is right now is that it’s taking so long to get direction out of cross departmental regulation.”
09.20.2016	09.20.16 Senator David Perdue Opposes Continuing Resolution “Business as usual in Washington looks like gridlock and dysfunction to all of us on the outside.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today issued the following statement on the complete breakdown of the budget process: “Business as usual in Washington looks a lot like gridlock and dysfunction to all of us on the outside. Once again, we are witnessing a complete breakdown of the budget and appropriations process. It has become nearly impossible for Congress to fund the federal government on time. In fact, the current budget process has only worked four times in the past 42 years. Congress has not been able to fund the federal government without a continuing resolution for 19 years in a row. Even last year, Congressional leaders negotiated another so-called ‘Grand Bargain,’ which I voted against, with the promise that both Republicans and Democrats would agree to complete the appropriations process this year. Yet, here we are again. Congress has not completed its most fundamental job on time and the only release valve is adding more debt and more spending. “Enough is enough, it is time for the greatest governing body ever conceived – the United States Senate – to start acting like it. Congress cannot continue to legislate from crisis to crisis. We cannot allow the budget and appropriations process to come to a grinding halt every year. We cannot allow gridlock to prevent funding the federal government on time. We certainly cannot afford a temporary fix that does not produce real results for the American people.”
09.19.2016	09.19.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Terrorist Attacks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on the terrorist attacks in New York, New Jersey, and Minnesota over the weekend: “Once again, this weekend we were reminded how radical Islamic terrorism can invade our borders and inspire homegrown terrorists. Thankfully, none of the victims were fatally injured in these callous attacks. We applaud our brave law enforcement officers—especially off-duty officer Jason Falconer, who stopped the ISIS-inspired terrorist attack at the mall in St. Cloud, Minnesota—for acting swiftly to stabilize the situation, help the victims, and apprehend the terrorists responsible. “These acts of violence serve as sobering reminders that ISIS has called on its supporters to attack us here at home. President Obama and his administration need to guarantee the American people that effective safeguards are in place to prevent radical terrorists from using social media and encrypted communication to inspire and plan further attacks. “It is ridiculous for some to say that we have ISIS on the run globally. Without a strategy, we are not defeating ISIS worldwide and these homegrown attacks are another manifestation of ISIS’ reach.”
09.16.2016	09.16.16 Senators Demand Answers From State Department On Grant To Anti-Netanyahu Political Organization “Our aid dollars should be going toward solving real problems, not contributing to the destabilization of allied governments.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Mike Lee (R-UT), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) today expressed deep concern over the State Department’s failure to properly vet grant recipient, OneVoice Israel, and questioned the omission of routine language in the organization’s grant agreement. OneVoice Israel deployed its grassroots political infrastructure, built with over $300,000 in State Department grant funds, to support a highly partisan movement aimed at unseating Prime Minister Netanyahu and his coalition government. In the letter the senators emphasize the complete breakdown of oversight by U.S. State Department officials during the vetting process for this grant and ask Secretary of State John Kerry how he plans to guard against such failures in the future. “State Department officials failed to properly vet the OneVoice grant proposal because they failed to properly conduct an analysis of risks in the pre-award phase,” wrote the senators in the letter. “Unfortunately, it seems that inconsistency and apathy toward oversight of such grants at the State Department is not new. Our aid dollars should be going toward solving real problems, not contributing to the destabilization of allied governments.” Specifically, the senators ask Secretary Kerry to answer the following questions: 1. Do you agree that this report highlights deviations from State Department policies regarding vetting and oversight of grants for civil society groups? If so, how? 2. Given that State Department regulations and internal guidance requires documentation of a risk analysis in the pre-award phase of every grant, was a risk analysis not compulsory for the OneVoice grant? Why was a risk analysis not documented in this case? 3. Is a group’s past political activity a factor used in consideration of a grant proposal? Is there usually “red line” language prohibiting funds from being used to influence a foreign election in State grant agreements, as the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs official indicated? If so, why was such language not included in the OneVoice grant contract and/or cooperative agreement? 4. Do other State Department grants for civil society and encouragement of political involvement not contain protections for future use of infrastructures built using State Department grant funds? 5. What disciplinary action has been taken against Michael Ratney and the other officials who were sent the OneVoice plan to defeat the Netanyahu coalition? 6. What steps have been taken to implement the three recommendations of the July 2014 GAO Report regarding implementation of grants policies at State? Specifically, what steps has State taken since this report was released to develop processes for ensuring compliance with risk analysis and documentation requirements? If no action has been taken, please explain why. 7. What steps will you take in the future to ensure that State Department funds are not used to build campaign infrastructures that can be later used to improperly attempt to influence the election of allied democratically-elected foreign governments? View the letter here.
09.16.2016	09.16.16 Senators Urge Administration To Address Trafficking of Synthetic Drugs and Illicit Goods Through Mail Service WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), and Mike Lee (R-UT) wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry on Thursday, regarding the problems of dangerous synthetic drugs and counterfeit goods entering the United States due to weaknesses in international mail security standards. “There are foreign entities that are threatening the jobs, safety, and well-being of Americans by taking advantage of U.S. customs laws,” the senators wrote. “Deadly synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl, are being imported to the U.S. with relative ease through international mail. This problem goes beyond the critical need to prevent dangerous illicit drugs from entering our nation. Data from the Department of Homeland Security shows that over the last decade, seizures of counterfeit products have nearly doubled. The State Department should focus its efforts on the countries that are the largest producers and exporters of illicit goods.” Non-letter class mail entering the U.S. through foreign postal services is not subject to the same screening standards as packages entering through private carriers. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) does not receive electronic customs data for the vast majority of this type of mail, which greatly reduces the agency’s ability to intercept illegal drugs and counterfeit goods. The senators went on to ask for a plan to be produced by the administration in collaboration with the committees of jurisdiction to combat trafficking of illegal drugs and counterfeit goods. “We ask that you create a plan to work directly with those countries that CBP deems to be the most significant risk so that U.S. agencies are better able to review electronic and advance customs data for non-letter class mail and packages coming into the U.S. from these countries,” the senators continued. “We respectfully request that you outline such a plan to the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary as soon as possible.” The letter is available here.
09.16.2016	09.16.16 Senator David Perdue Calls for a Stop to Political Games with Military Funding “Democrats are endangering our women and men in uniform and they are not doing their job.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) this week spoke on the Senate floor to call out Senate Democrats for putting partisan politics before Americans in uniform around the world. Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: Let me share a few highlights of what I’ve seen just in the press in the last few weeks: “Obama administration again underestimates Islamic State as Afghan affiliate grows into threat.” “DC transit police officer charged with aiding ISIS.” “ISIS increasingly using women and children to terrorize France.” “Five US troops wounded in combat with ISIS in Afghanistan.” “Vladimir Putin’s rumblings raise new fears of Ukraine conflict.” “Russia holds biggest military drill yet in Crimea.” “Iran escalates high seas harassment of US Navy.” “Iran threatens to destroy Israel with ‘100,000 missiles.’” “North Korea conducts fifth nuclear test, claims it has made warheads with ‘higher strike power.’” “South Korea prepares for ‘worst case scenario’ with North Korea.” These are just a few samples of headlines in the last few weeks alone. What we see right now going on in the United States Senate is gridlock, and it is creating the backlash we are seeing in the presidential race right now. People back home know Washington is dysfunctional and not working. Right now we have a situation where Democrats are blocking defense appropriations so yet again, the Senate has re-entered this period of dysfunction. The world is more dangerous than it has been at any time in my lifetime, and I’m a product of the nuclear age—the Cold War. I grew up in a military town where at one point we had B-52s there. I remember during the Cuban Missile Crisis, we had KC-135s, B-52s, C-141s all flying out of there in support of the blockade over Cuba. Yet today, I believe the world is more dangerous than it has ever been. Right now, we face a global security crisis. I believe it is on several levels. First, the rise of aggressiveness in Russia and China partially caused by our own intransigence by creating power vacuums around the world and encouraging this behavior. Second, I believe ISIS is a product of our own creation in many ways. The early removal of our troops in Iraq created a vacuum into which ISIS has grown. They needed territory to validate their caliphate and they got that. We now face nuclear proliferation in Iran and in North Korea. We have a cyber war going on today. I personally believe we’ve been invaded, which means we are at war today by nation states around the world. Two brigades are being stood up in my home state in Augusta, Georgia, at Fort Gordon. Two of 31 brigades in the United States Army. I am proud of those people. They are going to stand up to this threat. Lastly, we have an arms race in space that nobody is talking about. In my lifetime, I have never seen the symmetric threats and the asymmetric threats that we face in our country today. Ensuring that our women and men in uniform – those protecting freedom around the world – should never be open to political games, not least of all now in the face of all these myriad threats. But Senate Democrats in this body don’t feel that way obviously. Since I came to the United States Senate, our colleagues across the aisle have blocked funding for our military six times. Six times in my tenure here alone. Democratic members of this body have put their partisan games before funding and their support of our troops and that’s after the appropriations bill passed committee by a vote of 30 to 0. 14 Democrats and 16 Republicans got together in a room andworked their differences out. Isn’t that we were sent here to do? That’s what they did. They passed this bill in committee. There is no debate here. Everyone in this body wants this bill. I just don’t understand why they are holding this bill hostage for partisan political games, which they are playing right now. One of six reasons why 13 colonies came together in the first place was to provide for the national defense. Yet over 200 years later – in the midst of a global security crisis – Congress can’t even get that done. Congress can’t fund our government and fund our military without drama. What message does that send to our women and men in uniform around the world? Can you imagine? They can’t even depend on us here in this body to fund the needs that they have every day. This is a total breakdown in the system. Democrats are endangering our women and men in uniform, and they are not doing their job. I’m outraged by this, Georgians back home are outraged, and people around the country are outraged. Is anyone surprised that less than 20% of Americans trust the federal government? I’m not surprised at all. As I’ve said before, Democrats claim they want to support our military. They tell us all their heart-wrenching stories. Some of my colleagues have children in uniform. They call for action. Yet they’re the ones blocking us from this bill and blocking us from debating on the floor on the United States Senate. I don’t understand that at a time when we should be united in the face of global threats. The brinkmanship and gridlock permeating Washington is simply disgraceful. America must lead again, and one of the first steps in doing so is providing funding for our military. I’ve travelled around the world a lot in the last year and half. The number one request I get from heads of state we talk with is, America needs to lead again. They are not asking us to be the policemen anymore. They just need us to lead to common solutions against these same threats that threaten their countries just like they threaten ours. We’ve got to lead again, but to do that we’ve got to have a strong foreign policy. To have a strong foreign policy, we have to have a strong defense. To have a strong defense, we have to have a strong economy. We know about the debt crisis. We can’t fix our military—we can’t re-cap our military—without having a strong economy and solving the debt crisis. One of the biggest complaints I hear when we do continuing resolutions, and that’s what we do when we don’t do our jobs by the way, is that it really hurts the military’s ability to plan and train. They can’t look forward. They are so worried about getting funded today. I’ve seen those shortfalls around the world. This is what it’s come to. My colleagues across the aisle believe that their political game in this presidential election season is more important than our women and men in uniform, and more important than protecting our country. This is not a partisan comment. This is fact. I’m an outsider to this process. I have to tell you I feel the same outrage that the people back home feel. We can no longer take our security for granted. We can no longer take our military prowess for granted, and we can no longer take our women and men in uniform for granted. I firmly believe our Founders would be outraged by what is going on right now. Senator William Few was the very first person in 1789 that stood in my seat, right here. In the Senate room just down the hall. William Few. As ironically as it is, a direct descendant of his was on my staff when I ran for this office. I think that man would be absolutely apoplectic about us not funding our military. Can you imagine? Somebody who put their life on the line back then. Looking at what we are doing right now. The nonsense that we have going on. The stakes are far too high for this nonsense to continue. Democrats must drop this obstructionism. It’s time for Washington to fund our military and pass the defense appropriations bill and move on to fund our government.”
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Modernize Our Nation’s Water Infrastructure WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to modernize our nation’s critical water infrastructure and keep American ports competitive: “Georgia businesses and farmers rely on our state’s water infrastructure, like the Port of Savannah and the Port of Brunswick, for interstate and international trade. It is paramount that we maintain our existing water infrastructure and invest in cutting-edge technology that helps our state and country compete globally. Today, we approved legislation that allows the Department of Transportation and Army Corps of Engineers to upgrade our water resources and maintain our existing infrastructure.” Senator Perdue worked with Senator Isakson (R-GA) to amend the Water Resources and Development Act of 2016 to allow the Army Corps of Engineers to have flexibility when determining future uses of the New Savannah Bluff Lock & Dam in Augusta. This project is necessary for the Savannah Harbor Expansion, which will provide an annual economic impact of $176 million to Georgia. This amendment was included in the final bill, which passed the U.S. Senate by a vote of 95-3.
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Senators Perdue, Lankford Introduce Legislation To Hold Iran Accountable For Illicit Behavior WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and James Lankford (R-OK), a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, today introduced the JCPOA Enforcement Transparency Act, which would increase oversight of the Joint Commission, a committee created under the Iran nuclear deal to monitor implementation, and call on the U.S. representative to the Commission to oppose further exemptions for Iran. The Institute for Science and International Security released a study finding that the Joint Commission exempted certain low enriched uranium and facilities handling radioactive materials from the Iran nuclear deal's limits prior to its implementation. Without these exemptions in force, Iran would not have been in compliance with its commitments when the deal was implemented. “From its inception, I have been working to stop President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran,” said Senator Perdue. “The United States should be punishing Iran for its illicit behavior, not rewarding Iran with an economic boost of billions of dollars. Unfortunately, with the help of a majority of Senate Democrats, President Obama was able to move forward with his nuclear deal. Nine months later, we have learned the Joint Commission charged with overseeing the implementation of the nuclear deal issued waivers to Iran in order to make them compliant—essentially allowing Iran to break the rules before the deal had even gone into effect. This is inexcusable. What will it to take for the Obama Administration to hold Iran truly accountable, and show the belligerent nation enough is enough?” “The fact that the Obama Administration altered Iran’s nuclear-related obligations just days before sanctions on Iran were lifted is yet another sign that this deal is not what America believed it was,” said Senator Lankford. “We discovered over the past several weeks that President Obama sent $1.7 billion in cash to Iran, which was used as leverage to secure the release of Americans held hostage in Iran, and now we know the President also made it easier for Iran to comply with its obligations. The bill that Senator Perdue and I wrote will shed more light on the Administration’s clandestine dealings with the Islamic Republic. Every American’s name was signed implicitly onto the Nuclear Deal when President Obama agreed to legitimize Iran’s nuclear program in July 2015, so every American is entitled to the details of this deal.” The JCPOA Enforcement Transparency Act requires: • Justification: The Obama Administration must update congressional committees on why the U.S. representative to the Joint Commission deemed it appropriate to grant any waivers to Iran on nuclear requirements, and provide justification for any future decisions of the Commission. • Transparency: Requires the Obama Administration to make public the decision-making process for the Joint Commission, and subsequent enforcement bodies created by the deal. • Limitations: Expresses a sense of the Senate that the U.S. representative to the Joint Commission should oppose further exemptions for Iran under the nuclear deal, and the workings of the Joint Commission should proceed in an open and transparent manner. Additionally, Senator Perdue co-sponsored the Countering Iranian Threats Act (CITA) of 2016, a bipartisan bill that extends the Iran Sanctions Act; removes the President’s waiver authority on certain sanctions; expands sanctions on Iran for ballistic missile development, support for terrorism, and other illicit behavior; and sanctions transfers of conventional weapons to or from Iran.
09.13.2016	09.13.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Aim To Keep Politically Divisive Items Out of Defense Authorization Send letter urging negotiating conference committee negotiators to steer clear of unnecessary provisions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) joined 15 of their Senate colleagues in a letter to the chairmen and ranking members of the Armed Services Committee of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives, urging them to keep unnecessary, controversial political measures out of the National Defense Authorization Act as they conduct conference negotiations. A provision that was opposed by Senators Isakson and Perdue was included in the Senate-passed defense authorization measure to require women to register for the Selective Service. The Georgia senators argue that this requirement has not yet received the proper study and debate. “When this legislation was passed by the Senate, I urged the president not to play politics with our service members or our national defense, because last year’s presidential veto of this critical legislation was absolutely shameful,” said Senator Isakson. “Today, I urge this committee to do the same by removing the current language that would, for the first time, prematurely and without proper study of its implications, require women to register for the selective service. To be the best militarily, we need an all-volunteer fighting force in which both men and women can choose to serve our country in uniform and advance in rank based on their merit and qualifications. By increasing what we are spending on our national defense to better equip and train our armed forces, we preclude the need for a draft.” “Today, our all-volunteer military is made up of our nation’s best women and men who have completed rigorous training to obtain their rank and position,” said Senator Perdue. “This critical legislation directly supports our nation’s missions and ensures that our troops have what they need to be successful in the field. Our nation has not had to rely on a draft in almost 40 years so changing the requirements for an inactive program, like the selective service, should not be a high priority of Congress at this time.” The National Defense Authorization Act passed the U.S. Senate on June 14, 2016, by a bipartisan vote of 85-13, and the U.S. House of Representatives in May by a vote of 277 to 147. A House-Senate conference committee now must seek to reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill. The National Defense Authorization Act includes policies to support our wounded warriors, active duty troops, members of the National Guard and Reserve and their families. It provides an increase in base pay and combat pay for service members, as well as procurement of the tools and equipment necessary to combat ISIS and numerous threats around the world. In addition to Senators Isakson and Perdue, the letter led by U.S. Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) was signed by U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), John Thune (R-SD), Pat Roberts (R-KS), James Inhofe (R-OK), John Boozman (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), John Hoeven (R-ND), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), James Risch (R-ID), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). A copy of the letter can be found here.
09.13.2016	09.13.16 Senators Perdue, Shaheen Introduce Bipartisan Resolution In Support Of Lebanon Lebanon is hosting more refugees per capita than any other nation and actively engaged in the fight against ISIS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced a bipartisan resolution in support of Lebanon, a country under enormous strain due to the conflict in Syria. The resolution applauds Lebanon’s hosting of more than 1,000,000 Syrian refugees and recognizes the direct threat posed by ISIS and the unique political challenges the country faces. It also encourages Lebanon’s continued efforts to curb the influence of the terrorist group Hezbollah. “It is in America's—and the world's—best interests to support a secure and stable Lebanon, which is home to the largest percentage of Christians of any nation in the region,” said Senator Perdue. “Lebanon is on the front lines of the fight against ISIS and is hosting more refugees proportionally than any nation in the world. However, the Lebanese government is in gridlock because of the meddling of Iran and its terrorist proxy Hezbollah. It is critical the United States works to ensure that the Lebanese government weathers the worsening Syrian conflict and can continue to support the people of Lebanon.” “Lebanon has been asked to shoulder an enormous burden as a result of the ongoing conflict in Syria and this should be acknowledged by the United States Senate,” said Senator Shaheen. “The Lebanese people have demonstrated true humanitarian spirit in welcoming more than one million Syrian refugees even as they face attacks by ISIS. To help preserve a fragile sense of stability in Lebanon, the U.S. has and should continue to provide humanitarian support, as well as economic and security assistance to the government of Lebanon to counter the influence of Iran’s terrorist proxy Hezbollah, which is feeding the very conflict in Syria which threatens Lebanon’s stability.” View the bipartisan resolution, S. Res. 553, here.
09.09.2016	09.09.16 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Commemorates 9/11 ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following video commemorating the 15th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Senator Perdue delivered his message beside the memorial honoring the passengers aboard Flight 93 who courageously overtook the hijackers and likely prevented an attack on the U.S. Capitol. Click here or on the image below to view the video. Transcript: “Hi everybody, I’m David Perdue the junior U.S. Senator from Georgia. Today, we are honoring the over 3,000 victims of 9/11 and their families. I also want to thank and honor the first responders who, that day, exemplified the best—the very best—of America, and risked their lives. It makes me proud to be an American. I’m standing in the United States Capitol today in front of a plaque that honors the heroes of Flight 93. That day those heroes probably saved this U.S. Capitol. I want to thank you for stopping and remembering the victims of 9/11. Thank you for what you are doing for our country, and God bless you. And, God bless the United States of America.”
09.09.2016	09.09.16 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Working For Georgia ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released a video highlighting his visits with Georgians across the state during the month of August. Senator Perdue toured local businesses and spoke to community leaders about the issues most important to Georgia. “We are not talking about the real issues that people back home are so frustrated with. The debt, the economy, jobs. People are hurting and they are struggling to get from payday to payday. That’s what they want us to talk about.” – U.S. Senator David Perdue Click here or on the image above to view the video.
09.09.2016	09.09.16 Senator David Perdue: August 2016 In Photos WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today shared a behind the scenes look at his month touring the state of Georgia. View and download the full gallery of photos here. 1) August 16, 2016: Spending time with friends at the Georgia Farm Bureau annual legislative dinner in Locust Grove. 2) August 17, 2016: Taking a tour of Phoenix Air’s “Ebola plane,” a Gulfstream III with an Aeromedical Biological Containment System, which was used to transport Lassa fever patients. 3) August 17, 2016: Getting a demonstration of the innovative health care technology at Redmond Regional Clinic in Rome. 4) August 18, 2016: Having a great time with Morehouse Men at a reception in Atlanta. 5) August 22, 2016: Speaking to the Gainesville Rotary. 6) August 22, 2016: Touring IMS Gear in Gainesville. 7) August 23, 2016: Addressing the Georgia Chamber Annual Congressional Luncheon in Macon. 8) August 24, 2016: Talking with The Scott James Show in Valdosta. 9) August 30, 2016: Making a stop at Pearly’s in Albany for some great home cooking. 10) August 30, 2016: Sharing a laugh with my cousin, Sonny, and his precious granddaughter at his highway dedication in Houston County.
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Senator David Perdue Calls Attention To Obamacare’s Systemic Failure “Georgians are being robbed of health care choices.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor to highlight the failure of President Obama’s flawed health care law. Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: “We just spent several weeks back home in the state working, and I personally spent the last three weeks touring our state from Hahira to Hiawassee. I can tell you this, I get one question out of every group to which I speak and that is, ‘What can be done about Obamacare?’ Georgians tell me, ‘My premiums are going up. My insurance was cancelled. Obama said that I can keep my doctor if I wanted to. He said I can keep my insurance company if I wanted to. Yet, I’ve lost my doctor and I’m losing my insurance.’ I really believe this is a very, very critical issue that we need to talk about. Americans have never settled for failure, except for right now. People are saying that we need to accept Obamacare—that it’s the law. Yet, I am telling you, it’s collapsing under its own weight. In four decades of business, I don’t think I’ve seen anything as perverse as Obamacare and the effect it’s having not only in our business community, but also on the people back home. We’re still talking about Obamacare today because it’s a complete disaster. It has failed the very people this President and the Democrats in this body claim to champion: the working women and men of America. It did nothing to go after the overall costs of health care. The spiraling nature of health care costs, which continue to explode, will be the number one driver of debt in the next ten years unless we do something. Additionally, Obamacare did nothing at all to deal with the number of doctors in this country. It inserted government between patients and their doctors, and created a shortage of doctors. Right now, we are averaging around 10,000 fewer doctors per year under Obamacare. In fact, projections show the doctor shortage, in just the next ten years, could top 90,000 doctors. That’s staggering. Obamacare raises taxes, increases premiums, and chokes out choices. Not only that, but deductibles are up dramatically. My home state of Georgia is feeling the weight of this failure. UnitedHealthcare and Cigna are leaving the Obamacare exchange at the end of the year. Last month, Aetna announced it was joining them. At the start of this year, all 159 counties in the state of Georgia had at least two providers to choose from. Now, just after nine months, 96 of those 159 counties have one option. Georgians are being robbed of health care choices. They are also facing even higher premium and deductible costs. Premiums have risen in Georgia by an average of 33%. Every provider left in Georgia is raising premiums by double-digits next year: Blue Cross Blue Shield by 21.4%, Alliant by 21%, Ambetter by 13.7%, Kaiser Permanente by 17.6%, Harken Health by 51%, Humana by 67.5%. In 2009, President Obama railed against fewer choices. While selling Obamacare, he said, quote, ‘In 34 states, 75% of the insurance market is controlled by five or fewer companies… and without competition, the price of insurance goes up and quality goes down.’ Unquote. It sounds like he knew what was coming. Except, he was complaining at the time, but today competition has gotten worse. That is exactly what’s happened in Georgia because of Obamacare, and these problems are not limited to Georgia. Aetna is leaving 10 other states as we speak. Today, 31% of all counties nationwide, comprising almost 2.3 million Americans enrolled in the Obamacare exchanges, are more likely than not to have just one choice in provider. That’s what President Obama was complaining about in 2009. Insurance companies across the country are facing hundreds of millions in losses. It means fewer choices and higher costs for patients. The GAO recently reported that pre-Obamacare plans available in most states were more affordable and had lower deductibles than the options now available in the Obamacare exchanges. Nationally, premiums have risen by an average of 26%. Deductibles have risen for individuals at an average of more than 60% since Obamacare became law. There’s no way around it. Obamacare is a Washington takeover of our health care system that isn’t working for average Americans. When they were talking about this back in the day, my comment all along was, how do you feel about Obamacare? If you like the way the VA is being run, you’re going to love Obamacare. Those words are coming true today. Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. It’s failing the very people that the other side is claiming to champion: the working poor and the working middle class of our country who are bearing the burden of this consequence. Monopolies are festering and prices have skyrocketed. As I said, Obamacare is yet another example of liberal policies failing the very people they claim to champion. The diagnosis is in. None of these problems are going away. In fact, they’re getting worse. Obamacare cannot be allowed to stand. This is not a question of tweaking it around the edges, it’s profoundly built incorrectly. We have to repeal the individual and employer mandate, and pass an alternative that goes after the real drivers of spiraling health care costs. We should offer transportability, insurability, and accessibility—all the things missing prior to Obamacare but have been proposed as fixes on the Republican side. Accessibility is one of the main things to those who want to purchase coverage without mandating it. This will ensure no one is priced out of the market, including those with pre-existing conditions. We should offer more access to Health Savings Accounts to help drive down costs and allow for the purchase of insurance across state lines to increase competition. Finally, we must address frivolous lawsuits that have forced doctors to practice defensive medicine out of fear of being sued. All of these steps are within our grasp, so don’t believe those who say there isn’t an Obamacare alternative out there. My friend and Georgia colleague, Representative Tom Price, has championed H.R. 2300, the Empowering Patients First Act, for years. It contains all of the solutions I just outlined and I’m proud to sponsor its companion bill with Senator John McCain in the Senate. Our health care system is too important for too many Georgians, and too many Americans, to settle for failure. I wasn’t sent to the United States Senate to settle for the status quo, and I want to say one thing in closing: In the last eight years, we’ve been told over and over again that the status quo is the new normal. The American people are telling me, and telling you, that they are not accepting Obamacare as the new normal.”
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Senator David Perdue Reaffirms Constitutional Right To Withhold Consent For Supreme Court Nominees “No Supreme Court nominee should be considered by the Senate before the next president is sworn into office.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, once again spoke on the Senate floor to share why he believes that no Supreme Court nominee should be considered by the Senate before the next president is sworn into office. Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: “I’ve listened to several floor speeches today, and I don’t understand it. Here we are again with problems like the debt, Zika virus, funding our military, and yet, we spend a majority of the day in this body talking about something that I think we have already decided is not going to change this year. That is the potential nomination to the vacancy in the Supreme Court. I have spoken on this before, and I want to rise in support of Senator Grassley the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. I think it is important that I discuss again why I believe the Senate should not hold hearings or schedule a vote on any Supreme Court nominee until the American people have chosen our next president. I would first like to address the issue of the Senate’s responsibility under the Constitution with respect to judicial matters and judicial nominees particularly. According to Article II, Section II, the president has the power to nominate Supreme Court justices. Nothing new there. We, in this body, have the power to either consent or withhold our consent from his nominee. As the Minority Leader himself said, when referring to the Senate’s constitutional responsibility to confirm President George W. Bush’s judicial nominees at that time, quote: ‘Nowhere in that document does it say the Senate has a duty to give presidential nominees a vote.’ He went on to say, ‘The Senate is not a rubber stamp for the executive branch.’ There is also no provision in the Constitution requiring the Senate Judiciary Committee to hold hearings for a judicial nominee. In fact, the Constitution and its provisions laying out the process for confirming judicial nominees were ratified 28 years before the Senate Judiciary Committee even came in to existence. Therefore, it’s clear to me that the Senate’s action in withholding consent from this nominee is entirely consistent with our rights and responsibilities as a co-equal branch of government under the Constitution. By choosing to withhold our consent in this case, we are doing our job as laid out in the Constitution. I would also like to address the argument that the lack of hearings for a Supreme Court nominee this year is somehow unprecedented. That’s just nonsense. In modern times, the opposite is actually true. The last time a Supreme Court vacancy arose and a nominee was confirmed in a presidential election year was 1932. The last time a Supreme Court justice was nominated and confirmed during an election year in a divided government was 1888. A lot of water has gone on under the bridge since then and both sides have taken this position. Furthermore, my colleagues across the aisle have consistently argued over the years that the Senate should not act on a Supreme Court nomination during a presidential election year. The hypocrisy of this situation is just amazing to me. As an outsider to this process, this is what drives my friends and people back home absolutely mad. It was then-Senator Biden, our current Vice President, who as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said that President George H.W. Bush should avoid a Supreme Court nomination until after the 1992 presidential election. Then-Senator Biden went further than we are today, and said that the president shouldn’t even nominate someone. He made the same point that my colleagues and I are making today, when he said, quote: ‘It is my view that if a Supreme Court justice resigns tomorrow or within the next several weeks, or resigns at the end of the year, President Bush should consider following the practice of a majority of his predecessors and not – and not – name a nominee until after the November election is completed.’ Both sides have made this same argument that we are making today. Finally, I believe the decision to not hold hearings for a Supreme Court nominee this year is a wise course of action in the midst of a presidential election. As I’ve said all along, this is not the time, to interject into this political process, the decision to make a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court—a decision that may tip the balance of this particular court. As then-Senator Biden also said when discussing the potential of holding Supreme Court confirmation hearings against the backdrop of election year politics, he said this and I quote: ‘A process that is already in doubt in the minds of many will become distrusted by all. Senate consideration of a nominee under these circumstances is not fair to the President, to the nominee, or to the Senate itself.’ I agree with then-Senator Biden that the confirmation of a lifetime appointee to our nation’s highest court is far too important to become entangled in the partisan wrangling during a presidential election year. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I am therefore proud to stand with Chairman Grassley and my colleagues of the committee in saying that no Supreme Court nominee should be considered by the Senate before the next president is sworn into office. I also believe that it shouldn’t be taken up in lame duck, you can’t have it both ways.” ###
09.07.2016	09.07.16 ICYMI: Highlights From Senator Perdue’s Georgia Visits ATLANTA, GA – Over the past several weeks, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) traveled across the state to meet with Georgians. Senator Perdue discussed his efforts to tackle the national debt and address our global security crisis. Here are some highlights from his trip through the Peach State: GeorgiaPol.com: Senator Perdue Has a Proposal to Fix the Budget Process: Senator Perdue plans to introduce a bill this month to revise the way budgeting, and by extension appropriations, works. The bill will have three major principles. First, everything the government spends must be in the budget, including what is considered mandatory spending such as Social Security and other entitlements. The second principle is that the annual budget must be approved by both parties and signed into law. Currently, the budget is a resolution that is essentially written by the majority party with little help from the minority, and frequently varies from the President’s proposed budget. Finally, Perdue is calling for severe consequences unless Congress can pass its spending bills in time. (As the New Fiscal Year Approaches Without a Spending Plan, Sen. Perdue Has a Proposal to Fix the Budget Process, 9/6/2016) The Augusta Chronicle: U.S. Sen. David Perdue Talks Gridlock in Washington: “On top of a weak economy, trillions of dollars in debt and a government that can’t fund its military, Perdue said, the country is facing a global security crisis. He pointed to the rise of Russia and China and the threats of terrorism from groups such as Islamic State that he said ‘won’t go away easily.’” (U.S. Sen. David Perdue talks gridlock in Washington at Augusta Exchange Club meeting, 9/1/2016) Albany Herald: Budget Reform High on List of Priorities for David Perdue: Perdue said the biggest problem he has with the budgeting process currently employed by Congress is that the two parties only have to agree on the country’s discretionary spending, which he estimated at $1.1 trillion annually. Because the government’s total spending has increased from $2.4 trillion to $3.8 trillion in 15 years — despite a $350 billion reduction in discretionary spending during the last seven years due to cuts to both domestic programs and military spending through sequestration — it’s evident to Perdue and others on Capitol Hill that something isn’t working. (Budget reform high on list of priorities for David Perdue, 8/30/2016) WCTV: U.S. Sen. Perdue Speaks at Legislative Lunch in Valdosta: Perdue says he’s trying to break the gridlock in Washington. He stressed to voters about the importance of the upcoming election. “People in Valdosta and South Georgia need to take this presidential election very seriously”, says U.S. Sen. Perdue, (R) Georgia. “They need to get past any emotional issues and get at the main issues like the debt, the economy, and jobs. Focus on whether they’re better off now than they were eight years ago and whether they believe the current direction is good enough or if they’re willing to try a new direction.” (U.S. Sen. Perdue Speaks at Legislative Lunch in Valdosta, 8/25/2016) WMGT: Thousands Attend Annual Congressional Luncheon in Macon: A look into an economic crystal ball and Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue want leaders aware. “We’ve got a global security crisis. We’ve got a debt crisis. Right now, we’ve got to produce different results out of Washington,” Perdue said. (Thousands Attend Annual Congressional Luncheon in Macon, 8/23/2016) The Telegraph: Georgia Senator David Perdue: On Budget and Healthcare: “We focused these meetings on regional healthcare. From the big hospital providers, to the insurance providers, to the small town community hospitals. What I am hearing is that the pressure is on these small town hospitals from the Medicaid issue, but also to the payment under Obamacare that these small town hospitals are having to find somebody to come in and merge with them. That’s a very dangerous situation. You have the insurance companies who are trying to figure out how to get their rates, and the rate of a small town hospital, because it doesn’t have the overhead of a big hospital is different and so an MRI in Vienna, Georgia, may be different than one on Peachtree.” (Georgia Senator David Perdue: On Budget, Healthcare and Elections, 8/23/2016) Gwinnett Daily Post: David Perdue Visits the Gwinnett Daily Post: “This economy should be bursting, and the reason it’s not is overregulation,” Perdue said. Among the regulations he mentioned is the Waters of the USA rule. This regulation has created worries among Gwinnett County officials because of the broad reach they fear the federal government could exert over small waterways currently governed by local officials. “We’ve pushed back and voted in the Senate, and again, it’s the president that is sitting there with a veto power,” Perdue said. (David Perdue Visits the Gwinnett Daily Post, 8/22/2016) The Times: Sen. David Perdue: Economy Will Boom or Face Risk: Perdue also said the U.S. has “been invaded and is at war” because of homegrown terrorists. That is a first for the U.S., he said, and “the sooner we begin to deal with it, the better off we’re going to do.” Perdue added, “The world is a very dangerous place, maybe more dangerous than any time in my lifetime.”… Perdue said he took credit for introducing four new words to Washington — “we cannot afford it.” (Sen. David Perdue: Economy will boom or face risk, 8/22/2016) Marietta Daily Journal: Senator Talks About Changing Direction of Country: “I got involved in 2013 because I felt like there was some way I could help change the direction of the country, and I’m not unrealistic, I know what we’re talking about on the budget is a big lift, I know that. In business it wouldn’t be. Up here in politics it is. I want to help do whatever I can to change the direction of the country.”(Senator Talks About Changing Direction of Country, 8/20/2016) Ledger-Enquirer: Georgia Senator Calls Current Time ‘A National Emergency’: “I honestly believe that we are at a moment of crisis — this is a national emergency,” Perdue said. The reasons are five-fold, according to the senator. “... We have a global security crisis that makes the Cold War pale in comparison,” Perdue said. “... We have Russia and China doing things that we would not have imagined them doing five or six years ago. ... (President Obama) has created a vacuum that has allowed ISIS to grow. ... The third thing is something we have not seen before, the growth of nuclear capabilities of rogue nations like North Korea and Iran. “The last two things are cyber warfare — we are standing up two cyberbrigades right now in Augusta — (and) the last is something that no one is talking about right now, the arms race in space.” (Georgia senator calls current time ‘a national emergency’, 8/19/2016) WTVM: Sen. David Perdue Addresses Leadership Forum in Columbus: “I'd like to talk about the differences I see in Washington when it comes to leadership or the lack thereof,” Sen. Perdue said. “The second thing I want to do is just give you an update because it's ugly and I think we need to talk about it because it effects communities like Columbus.” During the tour, Sen. Perdue is providing an update on his work to advance Georgia's priorities in the U.S. Senate and break through the gridlock in Washington, DC. (Sen. David Perdue addresses leadership forum in Columbus, 8/19/2016) Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Phoenix Air Expands Bio-Containment Niche: “The company displayed the new bio-containment system sitting inside a hangar during a visit by U.S. Sen. David Perdue to the air charter company’s facilities at the Cartersville airport. “This is remarkable, what’s going on here,” Perdue said. “I wanted to meet these guys who developed this capability.” The new bio-containment units for four patients, designed by research organization MRIGlobal, are significantly larger and sturdier than the smaller “tent” used to transport Ebola patients and Lassa patients inside a Gulfstream G3 jet. (Phoenix Air expands bio-containment niche, 8/17/2016)
09.07.2016	09.07.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight Obama Administration’s Ransom Payments to Iran Co-sponsor legislation to prohibit ransom, instead pay victims of Iranian terror WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) co-sponsored the No Ransom Payments Act, which would prohibit the federal government from paying ransom and stop payments to Iran from the U.S. Treasury Department’s “judgment fund” until Iran returns the ransom money it received from the Obama Administration and pays American victims of Iranian terrorism what they are owed as required by an April 20, 2016 Supreme Court ruling. “After years of struggle, I was just recently able to get legislation passed to ensure the American victims of the 1979 Iranian Hostage Crisis are compensated for the agony they endured,” said Senator Isakson. “Now, instead of seeing to it that our own American citizens are taken care of, the Obama Administration has paid ransom to Iran on top of its reckless nuclear agreement with this rogue regime. This administration’s misguided foreign policies continue to embarrass our country, weaken our national security and expose American citizens to greater threat from terrorists, all while going around the people’s elected representatives in Congress. Unfortunately, this legislation is very necessary to stop all future payments to Iran until American victims of Iranian terror are compensated.” “We need to stop President Obama’s reckless trend of kowtowing to Iran,” said Senator Perdue. “The Obama Administration has engaged in secret negotiations, intentionally misled the American people about its dangerous nuclear deal, and doled out a ransom payoff. It is U.S. policy not to pay ransoms for hostages, and this legislation will prohibit President Obama—and any future president—from doing so again. Additionally, this legislation prohibits further settlement payments to Iran until American victims of Iranian terrorism are fully compensated for their outstanding claims.” Senators Isakson and Perdue joined U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Cornyn (R-TX), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), John Barrasso (R-WY), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Tim Scott (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Jim Risch (R-ID) in introducing this legislation. The No Ransom Payments Act was also introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS-04). On Aug. 9, 2016, Senators Isakson and Perdue wrote to U.S Secretary of State John Kerry urging the Obama Administration to provide the American people with more information on the secret cash payment to Iran made concurrently with the release of several Americans who were wrongfully imprisoned by Iran. Secretary Kerry has not responded to the letter. The Obama Administration initially denied that the cash payment was made to Iran in exchange for the American prisoners. However, days later, it was confirmed by the U.S. Department of State that its $400 million cash payment to Iran was conditional on the release of American prisoners by Iran as part of the $1.7 billion settlement the Obama Administration reached with Iran, which has since been paid out by the Obama Administration.
09.06.2016	09.06.16 Senator David Perdue: Zika Funding Should Not Be A Political Fight WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked Zika research funding for the third time since the disease was named a public health emergency: “Zika funding should not be a political fight. We should all agree to responsibly fund critical research to combat this disease. Despite Democrats’ rhetoric, if they had not blocked this funding, Congress could have acted on Zika months ago. This is a textbook example of the partisan political fights that have Georgians and Americans fed up with Washington. Likewise, this partisan obstructionism is also preventing Congress from responsibly funding the federal government. I urge my colleagues to join us in our efforts to fund critical research that could save innocent lives and help women across the world.”
08.23.2016	08.23.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On CBO's Update to Budget and Economic Outlook ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) update to The Budget and Economic Outlook: 2016 to 2026. “Reading these CBO economic outlook reports remind me of the movie Groundhog Day. Each new report paints the same alarming picture for our fiscal future, yet nothing in Washington changes. We continue to see the same dangerous trend jeopardizing our ability to adequately fund the federal government. Our national debt is projected to increase from $19 trillion to almost $30 trillion by the end of the decade, and our current debt already exceeds our nation’s GDP. “The latest CBO report underscores why we must continue finding serious solutions to solve our national debt crisis. We need to reverse the decline in business investment and increase economic productivity. This can be done and in fact, it must be done or our children and grandchildren will be the ones carrying the burden in the future.” In March, the CBO released a version of the Updated Budget Projections: 2016 to 2026. The CBO’s previous economic projections The Budget and Economic Outlook: 2016 to 2026 were released in January.
08.18.2016	08.18.16 Senator David Perdue On President Obama’s Ransom Payment To Iran “It is U.S. policy not to pay ransom, but President Obama just admitted he did.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the State Department’s admission that the $400 million cash payment to Iran was indeed a ransom for American prisoners: “It is U.S. policy not to pay ransom, but President Obama just admitted he did. Paying $400 million in hard cash only incentivizes Iran to take more hostages. I am outraged that we cannot rely on our own President to tell us the truth. This is another example in a long line of efforts by the Obama Administration to mislead the American people. What else are they hiding?” The State Department’s admission comes on the heels of a letter Senator Perdue sent to Secretary Kerry demanding answers to very specific questions about this secret payment. Secretary Kerry has not responded to the letter.
08.18.2016	08.18.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Obama's Largest Single Release Of GITMO Detainees “Regardless of where in the world President Obama intends to put these dangerous detainees, they will be a threat to the American people.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released a statement of strong opposition to President Obama’s largest release of terrorists from the detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: “Time and time again we have seen President Obama trying to make good on political campaign promises at the expense of our national security. This week, President Obama released 15 prisoners to the United Arab Emirates – the largest single release of GITMO detainees since he took office. Regardless of where in the world President Obama intends to put these dangerous detainees, they will be a threat to the American people. President Obama believes that the facility indirectly fuels recruitment of jihadists, but we know for certain that releasing these detainees directly contributes to their cause‎.” Recently, Senator Perdue along with Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) called for the full declassification review of Guantanamo detainees’ previous terrorist activity. A 2016 intelligence report revealed that as of January, 204 of the 676 former detainees were “confirmed or suspected” of returning to the fight, and estimates show that 128 of these detainees are not in any sort of restrictive custody. So far, President Obama has released 181 terrorists and only 61 detainees now remain at Guantanamo Bay.
08.15.2016	08.15.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Passing Of Gervaise Perdue ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement today on the passing of his mother, Gervaise Wynn Perdue: “It is with great sadness that I announce today the passing of my mother, Gervaise Perdue, who earlier this year celebrated her 90th birthday. As my mother’s health declined in the past few months, many of our family and friends across the state have filled her heart with joy, and we thank everyone for their kind support. My mother was a generous woman of great intellect and strength. She was a daily inspiration to our family and so many others in our community. Along with my father, David A. Perdue, a school Superintendent in Houston County for 20 years, both my parents dedicated their lives to educating the children of Houston County. Bonnie and I, along with our entire family, will deeply miss my mother, but we find comfort in knowing she is at peace.” About Gervaise Wynn Perdue: Gervaise Wynn Perdue was born in Irwin County, Georgia on April 30, 1926. She earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Georgia and later a master’s degree from the University of Georgia in 1959. She also earned a Specialist in Education from Mercer University in 1971. A teacher for more than 30 years, Gervaise is remembered as an enthusiastic and caring teacher who willingly shared her skills with coworkers. To help her students flourish, Gervaise initiated one of Georgia’s first Gifted Student Programs in the Houston County School System. Her direct involvement and influence were strengths of the program. After retirement, Gervaise enjoyed spending time with her children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. She was a lifelong member of the First Baptist Church of Warner Robins and a resident of Carlyle Place in Macon, Georgia. Gervaise and David A. Perdue, her husband of 49 years, were the proud parents of David A. Perdue, Jr. of Glynn County, Debbie Perdue of Atlanta, and Dennis Perdue of Cobb County. Details of a memorial service in celebration of her life will follow. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested that gifts be made in her name to the Alzheimer’s Foundation or the First Baptist Church of Warner Robins. ###
08.09.2016	08.09.16 Senators To Secretary Kerry: Taxpayers Deserve Truth On Cash Transfer To Iran Iran’s Defense Budget Indicates Expanding Military, Nefarious Operations at Americans’ Expense WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Mark Kirk (R-IL) are demanding that U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry provide the American people with more information on the secret $400 million cash payment to Iran made by the Obama Administration concurrently with negotiations to release several Americans who were wrongfully imprisoned by Iran. “Iran has a long history of fomenting instability and violence throughout the Middle East, posing an existential threat to our friend and ally, Israel, and killing or otherwise endangering innocent Americans,” wrote the senators in the letter. “We are concerned that this payment, along with the swap for seven Iranian prisoners detained in the U.S., has and will encourage further hostage-taking of Americans by Iran.” “Iran has increased its defense budget by $1.7 billion—exactly the same amount as the U.S. settlement payment. Can you confirm that this is true? Does this not indicate to you that Iran is expanding its military and nefarious operations at the expense of the U.S. taxpayer?” the senators asked Secretary Kerry regarding the $1.7 billion settlement payment that President Obama agreed to pay the rogue nation. Additionally, the senators called for answers from Secretary Kerry to the following questions: What account was used to provide this currency to Iran? How was the foreign currency shipment facilitated? Where did the flight of the cargo plane used for the payment originate from? Where was the currency exchanged from U.S. dollars? Why did the Administration not disclose information about this payment to Congress? Were any sanctions or U.S. law violated by this currency transfer? Upon making this payment, did you have any monitoring systems in place for the end-use of this cash? Did you receive any assurances from the Iranians that this payment would not be used to fund terrorism, the Assad regime in Syria, or other Iranian efforts to further sow instability in the region? Can you assure us that U.S. taxpayer dollars—specifically the hard currency provided in the January 2016 shipment—have not been used to fund terrorism? Why would the Administration pay Iran $1.7 billion, when Iran owes its American victims so much more? What efforts is the Administration making to ensure that these American victims and their families receive damages that Iran owes them? Was this settlement agreement in any way linked to the release of these American hostages? Would Iran have released these American hostages had this currency transfer not taken place? View the full letter here.
08.05.2016	08.05.16 Senator David Perdue Congratulates Georgians Participating In 2016 Rio Olympic Games WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today congratulated the Georgia athletes representing Team USA in the 2016 Rio Olympic Games, which begin tonight with the Opening Ceremony. “The athletic ability of our Olympic athletes is staggering. In a time where our world is faced with turmoil, it is inspirational to see countries come together to enjoy our shared love of sports and comradery. Bonnie and I wish our fellow Georgians and Team USA the best of luck, and we hope to see several gold medals come home to Georgia.” Georgia’s Team USA Competitors: Jenny Arthur of Gainesville, Weightlifting (69 kg.) Gunnar Bentz of Atlanta, Swimming (4x200m Free) Kristi Castlin of Atlanta, Track and Field (100m Hurdles) Christian Coleman of Atlanta, Track and Field (4x100m) Glenn Eller of Columbus, Shooting (Double Trap) Yijun Feng of Alpharetta, Table Tennis (Singles, Team) Vincent Hancock of Eatonton, Shooting (Skeet) Matt Kuchar of Sea Island, Golf Jay Litherland of Greensboro, Swimming (400m IM) Maya Moore of Atlanta, Basketball (Forward) Kelley O’Hara of Fayetteville, Soccer (Defender) Christian Taylor of Fayetteville, Track and Field (Triple Jump) Amanda Weir of Lawrenceville, Swimming (4x100m Free) Kendell Williams of Kennesaw, Track and Field (Heptathlon)
08.04.2016	08.04.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Obama’s Dangerous Clemency WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after President Obama reduced prison sentences for 214 felons—of which approximately one in four are serving time for criminal gun charges: “Law abiding Americans are apoplectic with the lack of law and order we have seen during President Obama's tenure. Yesterday, President Obama commuted the sentences of 214 convicted felons—including 67 who were serving life sentences. President Obama’s criminal leniency is unprecedented in modern times—he has commuted more sentences than the past nine presidents combined. This is a drop in the bucket when compared to the 46,000 reduced sentences already authorized by the U.S. Sentencing Commission. “The U.S. Sentencing Commission is in the process of releasing 46,000 drug trafficking offenders, which is half of the drug trafficking offenders in federal prison and about 25 percent of the total federal prison population. All of this comes at a time when our nation is in the midst of a heroin and opioid epidemic. President Obama may take pride in his criminal leniency legacy, but law-abiding citizens do not. It is time to restore law and order in this country so we can keep American families safe and our country secure.” Senator Perdue has been a vocal opponent of the current Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, legislation that would let dangerous felons—like some of the criminals who were granted clemency by President Obama yesterday—out of prison early. When this bill was first debated in the Senate Judiciary Committee last October, Senator Perdue introduced amendments to protect victims and communities, but ultimately these amendments were not adopted and the current bill is still dangerous for America.
08.04.2016	08.04.16 Senator David Perdue: Obama’s Dangerous Dealings With Iran Read Like A Movie Script Calls on Harry Reid and Senate Democrats to denounce dangerous Iran deal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement after The Wall Street Journal reported the Obama Administration secretly sent $400 million dollars to Iran in exchange for Americans held in Tehran: “President Obama’s dangerous dealings with Iran read like a movie script. If this wasn’t a taxpayer funded ransom for Americans, why would President Obama have sent $400 million to Iran in an unmarked cargo plane in foreign currency and not tell anyone about it? The American people deserve answers. We have seen the Obama Administration engage in secret negotiations, intentionally mislead the American people about its dangerous nuclear deal, and now, dole out a ransom payoff. Enough is enough. I call on Harry Reid and Senate Democrats to denounce President Obama’s dangerous Iran deal and start treating Iran like the bad actor it is.” Additionally, Justice Department officials objected to the cash payment citing concerns over how it would be perceived by the public and the Iranians, but President Obama’s State Department ignored these concerns.
08.01.2016	08.01.16 Senator David Perdue Announces August Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of August. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s August mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Central Savannah River AreaWednesday, August 1010:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Washington-Wilkes Chamber Member MarketplaceEdward B. Pope Center, Ballroom48B Lexington AvenueWashington, GA 30673 Southwest GeorgiaMonday, August 1510:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Thomas County Library Main BranchHenry O. Flipper Room201 North Madison StreetThomasville, GA 31792 Middle GeorgiaMonday, August 159:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce Office305 North Madison AvenueEatonton, GA 31024 Southeast GeorgiaTuesday, August 3010:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Pierce County Extension OfficeConference Room705 College AvenueBlackshear, GA 31516
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Terrorist Attack In Nice, France WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the Bastille Day terrorist attack in Nice, France: “Again, France is experiencing another unconscionable tragedy. It is chilling to witness these occurrences across the world, seemingly without an end in sight. America will continue to stand in solidarity with the people of France, our longtime ally. It is time for our country, and the international community, to double down on efforts to eliminate radical Islamic terrorism. For too long, jihadists have successfully radicalized people and carried out horrific crimes against innocent people. This must stop. “President Obama must reevaluate his strategy to defeat ISIS and other extremist groups. But, while we bolster our efforts to combat terrorism abroad, it is equally important that we strengthen our efforts to protect against terrorism here at home. This starts with securing our borders and improving our intelligence efforts, as well as providing our troops with what they need to take on these threats worldwide.”
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Senator David Perdue Blasts Democrats’ Political Showmanship On Defense Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the floor to highlight the Senate Democrats’ obstructionism when it comes to providing for our country’s national defense, and to call on Congress to break through the gridlock and protect our women and men in uniform. Click here to view the speech or on the image below. Transcript: “We are at a very critical juncture during this Congress and indeed in our country. What I want to talk about today is the nonsense that's going on right now about funding our military. These are women and men around the world in uniform whose mission is to protect our freedom. Let me remind everybody that there are only six reasons why 13 colonies got together in the first place to create this union. One of those was to provide for the national defense. Yet here we are, basically trying to do what the president has asked and fund the military, and we're being obstructed by the people across the aisle. I just don't understand that. We have people right now who are in danger of not being able to fulfill their missions around the world. As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, I've traveled extensively over the last year and a half. I've seen around the world where dedicated women and men don't have the resources to fulfill their missions, and it endangers the very freedom that we have here at home. I believe that this is a critical point in this Congress to tell the American people we're either going to break through this gridlock and move to do what's right, or we're going to sit here on our hands and argue the political side of this while our women and men are in danger. One of the hardest things to understand right now is the fact that in the last 30 years we've continued to disinvest in our military. This chart shows under the last three Democratic presidents how we disinvested in the military. This green line is a chart of the percentage of GDP that we spent on our military, and so it's gotten down all the way to today where we're spending three percent of our GDP. It's the lowest point in the last 30 years, and I will say this, the 30-year average here is about 4.2 percent. That differential was 100 basis points. What that means is about – in today's size of economy, it's about $200 billion. Now, put that in perspective, we're spending about $600 billion on our military today. Can you imagine what difference that would make? The last time a Secretary of Defense put a budget up based on a bottom-up estimate of need based on the missions around the world was Secretary Gates in 2011. In 2011, he estimated that for 2016 and 2017—what we're talking about here in this budget—his estimate was some tens of billions of dollars more than what we're doing now, and his estimate was prior to ISIS, prior to Russia's activity in Crimea, Ukraine and Georgia. What happens now is in the next ten years, unless something is done, under the current presidential plan of spending for the next ten years, not only are we going to add $9.5 trillion to our debt, but we are on track to reduce military spending to 2.6 percent of GDP. Now, that's another roughly $100 billion of cuts if all other factors were held constant. I just don't understand this brinkmanship that we see. This is not the first time. I think this is the fifth time we're going to have voted on funding our military. The reaction of the other side befuddles me from the standpoint that they tell us they want to support our women and men. They give us these heart-wrenching stories, and yet then they won’t stand up and won't even let us get the bill on the floor. To be brief, it's time for the Democrats to stop the obstructionism and the political showmanship. This is about the security of our country, about the lives of our women and men abroad. They deserve better than this. We can do better than this. The world is more dangerous than at any time in my lifetime. It's time that we stand up and tell the world what we are committed to, and that is to provide for our own national defense. That means funding this defense appropriations bill.”
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Senator David Perdue Highlights Dangerous Iran Deal On One Year Anniversary Evidence shows Iran is not trying to join community of nations at all WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today highlighted the belligerent actions we have seen from Iran since President Obama finalized his nuclear deal with the rogue nation. Click here to watch the remarks or click on the image below. “Here we are within the first 12 months of the Iran Deal and here is what we know about Iran’s behavior: seven ballistic missile launches, harassment of U.S. forces, and not only the Navy sailors that were illegally detained, and some 10 percent of U.S. crossings of the Strait of Hormuz are characterized as unsafe by the Navy because of involvement of Iranian patrols. We know there are still U.S. hostages, some with dual-nationalities, being detained, and there are four confirmed reports of interdicted arms shipments from Iran to the Houthis in Yemen. “We see violations of travel sanctions. For example, the general in control of the IRGC (Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps) has reportedly made four illicit trips to Russia. We know of Iranian nuclear procurement attempts that are now coming out from German domestic intelligence reports, but also from reports by the Institute of Science and International Security. These are really concerning. It doesn’t seem to me that the evidence shows that Iran is trying to join the spirit of the community of nations at all,” said Senator Perdue during a Senate Foreign Relations hearing on the Iran Deal.
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Senators Call On Secretary Kerry To Snap-Back Sanctions After German Intelligence Detects Over 100 Iranian Nuclear Procurement Attempts Procurement efforts likely related to weapons of mass destruction WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Joni Ernst (R-IA) are calling on Secretary Kerry to investigate Iran’s illicit behavior and to re-impose sanctions on Iran for its extensive nuclear and missile procurement attempts in Germany likely related to weapons of mass destruction which, if confirmed, are a clear violation of the Obama Administration’s nuclear deal and U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231. “As we approach the one-year anniversary of the signing of the JCPOA later this week, we are reminded of the need to remain vigilant in the daily enforcement of the deal,” said the senators. “As President Obama said last year, ‘we will, for the first time, be in a position to verify all of [Iran’s] commitments. That means this deal is not built on trust; it is built on verification.’” Last week, Germany’s Annual Report on the Protection of the Constitution stated, “The illegal proliferation-sensitive procurement activities in Germany registered by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution persisted in 2015 at what is, even by international standards, a quantitatively high level. This holds true in particular with regard to items which can be used in the field of nuclear technology.” The report continued, “Against this backdrop it is safe to expect that Iran will continue its intensive procurement activities in Germany using clandestine methods to achieve its objectives.” While the evidence of potential violations is clear, the Obama Administration has failed to follow through on the promises it made to the American people to investigate Iran’s illicit behavior, punish the rogue nation, and snap-back sanctions when violations occur. In their letter to Secretary Kerry, the senators ask the following questions: If these reports are true, would these procurement actions not clearly violate the JCPOA and UNSCR 2231? Can you confirm and corroborate these domestic intelligence reports from the German government, and have these procurement activities indeed continued in Germany as the Annual Report predicted? Could you explain why such investigations and prosecutions of illegal Iranian procurement efforts have not taken place since the signing of the JCPOA, and why these violations have not resulted in severe and tangible punishments? If Iran is attempting to seek such materials outside of the Procurement Channel established by the JCPOA, why aren’t Iran’s attempts to violate the JCPOA and UNSCR 2231 treated as the transgressions that they are? What specific steps to do you intend to take to penalize Iran for its possible non-compliance? In light of the German reports, it is now more important than ever to demonstrate to Iran that the United States is prepared to punish Iran for any noncompliance. Will the Obama Administration support renewal of the Iran Sanctions Act (ISA)? Given that the Administration repeatedly promised a continuous, rigorous verification scheme to hold Iran accountable under the deal, this seemingly lax enforcement of the JCPOA forces us to question: is the framework for addressing violations, as laid out in the JCPOA, working at all? Read the senators’ full letter here.
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Foreign Relations Subcommittee Chairman David Perdue Holds Hearing On Foreign Aid Public-Private Partnerships Seeks to identify future partnerships to help foreign aid dollars go further WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today led a hearing in the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development on the role of public-private partnerships in foreign aid. A key witness included Georgia company Coca-Cola. Click here to watch or click on the image below. “As a member of both the Budget Committee and the Foreign Relations Committee, I have a unique perspective on how our global security crisis and our fiscal crisis are intertwined,” said Chairman Perdue. “Even though foreign aid is less than one percent of the federal budget, I keep that in perspective given that in our current fiscal situation every dollar we spend on the State Department and USAID is technically borrowed. It behooves us to be very responsible about how we invest our limited taxpayer dollars, and I think this natural leverage we get with these partnerships is extremely important today given the needs around the world.”
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Senator David Perdue Introduces Bill To Improve Security Of Classified Information WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, along with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Ben Sasse (R-NE), today introduced the Securing Our Secrets (SOS) Act of 2016 to end some of the most egregious security weaknesses at the State Department. The SOS Act would explicitly prohibit all State Department officials from using private email accounts and servers to handle sensitive and classified information going forward. “There are serious and systemic security management problems at the State Department that span the tenure of several Secretaries,” said Senator Perdue. “Most recently during Hillary Clinton’s tenure, these security weaknesses were amplified by the use of private email servers and non-governmental email accounts. A recent FBI investigation and the State Department’s Inspector General review found that the State Department is lacking when it comes to cyber security for data communications. It is unacceptable for an agency that handles our nation’s security secrets to be so vulnerable. “Isn’t it obvious that the federal government should not be sending sensitive and classified information through insecure channels? All records should be properly preserved to ensure full integrity and transparency. This bill will restore accountability at the State Department by improving management protocols so our country’s classified information remains secure,” concluded Senator Perdue. The Securing Our Secrets Act of 2016: Prohibits Use of Non-Governmental Information Systems Prohibits the use of non-agency owned and managed electronic communications systems and non-governmental email accounts for all work-related communications. (includes a national security waiver). Instructs State Department’s Inspector General to complete an oversight plan to ensure all work-related communications are in compliance. Prevents Information Leaks Requires certain Diplomatic Security agents to receive training in identifying classified information. Implements quarterly random email samples to check for classified information spillage, which will then be audited by the Inspector General. Improves Security Training Requires all employees with security clearances to immediately complete additional training on handling classified information. Implements an annual training program on how to prevent the mishandling of classified information. Streamlines Electronic Archiving Creates a new training program on how to archive electronic communications. Ensures sworn affidavits are received annually to certify all required documents have been archived accordingly. Requires State officials in charge of FOIA requests be trained on identifying classified information and coordinating reviews with the Intelligence Community. Increases Oversight Requires the State Department to submit an annual report to Congress on all security violations and the Department’s response to security violations.
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On CBO’s 2016 Long-Term Budget Outlook WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its 2016 Long-Term Budget Outlook, which projects the United States would face steadily increasing federal debt over the next 30 years—reaching the highest level of debt relative to GDP ever experienced in this country: “The CBO is again exposing how Washington’s financial irresponsibility threatens our ability to fund the priorities of our government. Discretionary spending has been scaled back since 2009 and this CBO outlook reminds us that the runaway costs of our mandatory expenses will add trillions to the debt in the next 10 years. We’re past the tipping point in this debt crisis and we simply have to face up to the difficult choices we have to make today to arrest the spiraling debt. “Right now, our country cannot afford everything it is doing. With over $19 trillion in debt and over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities, each American family is responsible for nearly $1 million of this debt. Even more concerning, if interest rates were to rise to the 50-year average of 5.5 percent, the interest on the debt would amount to over $1 trillion annually, more than twice what is currently spent on national defense. “The budget process is broken and has only worked four times in more than forty years. Fixing the budget process alone will not solve the debt crisis, but the debt crisis cannot be solved until we fix the budget process. In addition, we have to face up to the reality that the Social Security and Medicare trust funds go to zero in less than 15 years. We have to save Social Security and Medicare. Growing the economy and arresting the spiraling nature of our health care costs are also necessary to save these programs and rein in this out of control debt.”
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On This Week’s Tragedies ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the tragedies in Baton Rouge, St. Paul, and Dallas: “As Americans we have lived through a week of horrific and senseless violence. We mourn for the victims, pray for their families, and stand with the brave women and men working to protect our communities. “In the face of tragedy, Americans have always stood united. It's now time that we come together as a country. For too long we have let ourselves be driven by our differences. Now, we have the opportunity to focus on what we agree upon and regain that spark that makes our country different. “It's time to counter tragedy with compassion, hate with love, and frustration with patience. As we move forward, our communities, large and small, can foster and influence a peaceful dialogue on how to heal and move forward.”
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Pay Our Troops & Fund Military Missions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) yesterday voted to fund our military and support their mission to defeat ISIS, protect our homeland, and support our allies: “Last night, Democrats chose to play politics with the bill that funds the Department of Defense. Blocking a bill that funds our troops’ paychecks, medical care, and the combat resources they need for their missions, and the fight against ISIS, is downright irresponsible. This is outrageous. It cannot be overlooked that this political stunt came one day after President Obama announced his plan to keep more American soldiers on the ground in Afghanistan, and less than a month after a deadly terrorist attack on American soil. It’s time for the posturing to stop and well past time to fund the women and men protecting our country.”
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Streamline Labeling Standards WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today issued the following statement after he voted this week to streamline food labeling standards: “The current labeling system is a patchwork of state laws that creates confusion and drives up costs for consumers and manufacturers. A user-friendly national labeling standard will make it easier to sell goods to consumers in states across the country.”
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Senator David Perdue Demands State Department Revoke Hillary Clinton’s Security Clearance Highlights portions of Secretary Clinton’s Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, demands that the State Department revoke former Secretary Hillary Clinton’s security clearance for her mishandling of classified information and for putting the United States at risk of irreparable injury. “As the head of the State Department, Hillary Clinton was directly responsible for protecting sensitive information and ensuring her employees did the same, and she failed on both fronts,” said Senator Perdue. “Of all of the people involved in this scandal, Secretary Clinton should have known she was putting national security at risk and immediately stopped all non-secure communication involving classified information. Secretary Clinton’s actions were a direct violation of the Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement she signed, but since the FBI has decided that Secretary Clinton is not subject to the law, at a minimum, her security clearance should be revoked.” After a federal employee is briefed on how to handle classified information for a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Clearance, they must sign a Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement. This agreement outlines the rules for handling classified information and the U.S. criminal laws governing SCI information. Paragraph three of Secretary Clinton’s agreement states, “I have been advised that the unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized retention, or negligent handling of SCI by me could cause irreparable injury to the United States or be used to advantage by a foreign nation…I understand that it is my responsibility to consult with appropriate management authorities in the Department or Agency that last authorized my access to SCI, whether or not I am still employed by or associated with that Department or Agency or a contractor thereof, in order to ensure that I know whether information or material within my knowledge or control that I have reason to believe might be SCI.” “I have been advised that any breach of this Agreement may result in my termination of my access to SCI and removal from a position of special confidence and trust requiring such access as well as termination of my employment or other relationships with any Department or Agency that provides me with access to SCI,” the agreement states. Senator Perdue yesterday joined Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) in introducing the Taking Responsibility Using Secured Technologies (TRUST) Act, S.3135, legislation that would revoke former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s security clearance as well as the security clearances of Secretary Clinton’s colleagues at the State Department who exhibited extreme carelessness in their handling of classified information. Senator Perdue also wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry calling on the State Department to suspend the security clearance for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her aides who were implicated in the FBI’s investigation. Read the full text of the letter here. ###
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Senator David Perdue Continues Effort To Protect Americans & End Sanctuary Cities “Who in good conscience can argue that this lawlessness should continue?” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement after he voted to defund sanctuary cities that refuse to enforce our immigration laws and to establish mandatory minimums for illegal reentry offenses: “Our country prides itself on being a nation of laws and these laws must be enforced uniformly across the country. Unfortunately, this is not happening. Today, more than 300 cities are needlessly endangering the lives of their law-abiding residents by refusing to enforce our current immigration laws and carry out deportations issued by the federal government. This is not just childish political posturing, it is an abhorrent disregard for the law and has led to the death of innocent Americans. “One year ago, a young woman named Kate Steinle was killed by an illegal alien felon San Francisco refused to detain. Federal law enforcement officials had issued a detainer for this individual, a convicted felon who had been deported five times. Citing its sanctuary city policy, San Francisco ignored the detainer. Who in good conscience can argue that this lawlessness should continue? It is a very sad day when Congress cannot come together to stop rogue cities from breaking our nation’s laws, protect the livelihood of all American citizens, and support our law enforcement officials.” In addition Kate’s Law, Senator Perdue has cosponsored the following bills to stop sanctuary jurisdictions and further protect families: • S. 291, the Keep Our Communities Safe Act to strengthen the requirements for the detention and removal of illegal aliens. • S. 2146, the Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act to withhold federal grants from cities refusing to enforce immigration laws. • S. 1762, the Establishing Mandatory Minimums for Illegal Reentry Act of 2015 to increase penalties applicable to aliens who unlawfully reenter the United States after being removed. • S. 1640, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act to withhold federal funding for any jurisdictions that refuse to comply with federal law. ###
07.05.2016	07.05.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Clinton’s Handling Of Top Secret Information “Americans are baffled by the government’s egregious lack of accountability for Secretary Clinton’s negligence.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, today issued the following statement regarding the FBI’s investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s personal email server: “Secretary Clinton is not above the law and acted with a gross lack of judgment while handling sensitive and classified information. Director Comey and the FBI may not want to bring charges, but most Americans are baffled by the government’s egregious lack of accountability for Secretary Clinton’s negligence. “This is exactly why Americans are so fed up with Washington. Any other federal government employee would have faced serious consequences. Instead, Hillary Clinton today boarded Air Force One and hit the campaign trail with the President of the United States.”
07.02.2016	07.02.16 Senator Perdue Statement On Emory Students Killed in Bangladesh Terror Attack ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement about two Emory University students who were taken hostage and killed in Dhaka, Bangladesh: “Innocent people are being massacred across the world at the hands of ISIS. These senseless acts of terror absolutely must come to an end. It is deeply disturbing to hear that two of the victims of the most recent attacks are Emory University students. Bonnie and I are keeping Abinta Kabir, Faraaz Hossain, and their loved ones in our thoughts and prayers during this terrible time.”
07.01.2016	07.01.16 Senator David Perdue Commemorates Independence Day ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following video message in advance of America’s 240th birthday: Click here to view the video or click on the image below. Transcript: “Today, we celebrate America’s 240th birthday. We honor the memory of our Founding Mothers and Fathers, patriots, and heroes. They stood in the face of tyranny, and against all odds, they prevailed in the fight for our independence. They then established a government like nothing else the world had ever seen. Because of our Founders’ courage and principles, and the grace of God, America has become an exceptional nation. As we pause to celebrate Independence Day with our families and friends, let’s remember their unwavering resolve to always protect our freedom. Let us endeavor to leave future generations a nation freer and more prosperous than the one we inherited. Ronald Reagan once said, freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We don’t pass it down in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and passed on so they can do the same. Or one day, in our sunset years, we’ll be telling our children and our children’s children what it was once like in America when women and men were free. Not on our watch. God Bless you, and God Bless the United States of America.”
07.01.2016	07.01.16 Senator David Perdue Announces July Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of July. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s July mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Central GeorgiaWednesday, July 1310:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Griffin Regional Welcome Center143 North Hill StreetGriffin, Georgia 30223 West Central GeorgiaWednesday, July 1310:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Development Authority of Macon County109 North Dooly StreetMontezuma, GA 31063 Central Savannah River AreaWednesday, July 2010:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Lincoln County Library181 North Peachtree StreetLincolnton, GA 30817 ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Istanbul Terrorist Attack “Terrorism Has No Place In Our World” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the deadly terrorist attack at Istanbul’s Ataturk Airport, Turkey’s largest airport: “We continue to show our support for Turkey, our friend and ally. Terrorism has no place in our world and we will continue working with Turkey and all of our allies and partners to target those responsible for this cowardly assault on innocent lives. The sooner we can dismantle the networks of these violent terrorist organizations, the better we can prevent these attacks from continuing. Combating terrorism will require a collaborative international effort, and the United States stands committed to dismantling these radical networks both at home and abroad.” ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Senator David Perdue Votes Against Washington’s Plan For Puerto Rico “This is merely a band-aid for a long-term fiscal illness.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting against Washington’s plan to assist the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico with its $72 billion debt: “Through irresponsible fiscal policies, the Puerto Rican government has found itself in a very serious financial situation. The Commonwealth needs help tackling its debt situation, but this is not the best solution to solve Puerto Rico’s fiscal problems. The deal Congress negotiated with President Obama is merely a band-aid for a long-term fiscal illness. By giving Puerto Rico the ability to remove debt payment priorities guaranteed by its own Constitution, Congress is setting a dangerous new precedent that will make it even harder for the Commonwealth to access capital markets in the future. Furthermore, without structural changes that get at the failed fiscal policies that pushed Puerto Rico to this point, the Commonwealth will potentially find itself facing another unmanageable debt situation down the road. There was a better alternative that would have assisted Puerto Rico and ensured that structural changes were implemented to prevent future financial hardships. Unfortunately, in typical Washington fashion, these long-lasting solutions were ignored.” ###
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Senator David Perdue: Zika Is A Serious Public Health Risk WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting to fund Zika research and benefits for veterans, as well as construction projects for military bases: “The Zika virus is a serious public health risk facing Georgia, the United States, and the world. Since we are in the midst of the summer and mosquito season, it is essential we step up our efforts to combat Zika. After working to make several improvements, the plan I supported in the Senate today is paid-for and provides research centers, like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, with additional resources needed to help stop the spread of the Zika virus. The Democrats did not join us in this effort due to partisan politics, and I sincerely hope they reconsider.” Funding to combat the Zika virus was included in a House and Senate conference report for the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which Senator Perdue supported in May 2016.
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Benghazi Committee Majority Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, today issued the following statement about the majority report released by the House Select Committee on Benghazi: “This report shows a systemic failure of leadership at the highest level. Four innocent Americans died and no one has been held accountable. The State Department failed to adequately protect Americans serving overseas and failed to plan ahead for potential terrorist attacks on the anniversary of 9/11 in countries plagued with instability. This cannot continue. It is clear this attack had nothing to do with a video and everything to do with government incompetence.” On September 11, 2012, armed terrorists attacked the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, killing Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone Woods. The House Select Committee on Benghazi was directed to conduct a full investigation of the attack and issue a final report of its findings. ###
06.24.2016	06.24.16 Senator David Perdue Hosts Georgia Grown Luncheon Georgia chef prepares Southern staples at U.S. Capitol WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) this week hosted a luncheon prepared by Holly Chute, Senior Executive Chef with the Georgia Department of Agriculture’s Georgia Grown program. The meal included chicken from Springer Mountain Farms in Mt. Airy, Vidalia Onions, fresh field peas from Calhoun Produce in Ashburn, grits and cornmeal from Riverview Farms in Ranger, and country ham from Pine Street Market in Avondale Estates. Click here to see more photos from the luncheon or click on the photo below. Additionally, the following Georgia Grown products were featured at the luncheon: Joe Kem’s Bar-B-Que Sauce from Moultrie, Blueberry Jelly from The Blueberry Barn in Alma, Extra Virgin Olive Oil from Georgia Olive Farms in Lakeland, Peach Preserves from Jaemor Farms in Alto, Beef Jerky from Bogey’s Beef in Mableton, Georgia Grown Sugared Peanuts courtesy of Georgia Department of Agriculture Commissioner Gary W. Black, Coca-Cola, and Chick-fil-A products. “Georgia is home to some of the greatest produce in the world,” said Senator Perdue. “Thanks to the Georgia Grown program and our hardworking farmers, Americans can find Georgia products in grocery stores across the country. It was an honor to host Chef Chute and share some of our Southern staples, especially her delicious fried chicken, with my Senate colleagues at the U.S. Capitol.” Learn more about the Georgia Grown program here. ###
06.24.2016	06.24.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On The United Kingdom’s Vote To Exit The EU WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the United Kingdom voted to exit the European Union: “The United States remains a steadfast ally of the United Kingdom. At the same time, the United States is also committed to the member nations of the European Union. I am confident that all of our nations will continue to work together in the face of great global insecurity and unrest. It is also key that the existing European Union members remain active partners in NATO and international trade.” ###
06.23.2016	06.23.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Prevent Terrorists From Purchasing Guns, While Protecting The Second Amendment WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to prevent terrorists from purchasing guns, while protecting the Constitutional rights of all law-abiding Americans. Senator Perdue voted against Senator Susan Collins’ (R-ME) amendment and voted to support Senator Ron Johnson’s (R-WI) amendment. “We all agree we must keep guns out of the hands of terrorists who wish to destroy our very way of life,” said Senator Perdue. “Once again, I voted today to prevent terrorists from purchasing guns, while protecting the Second Amendment. At the same time, we must ensure strong due process protections are in place to protect the Constitutional rights of law-abiding Americans. Instead of engaging in divisive politics, we need to come together to protect Americans from the threat of radical Islamic terrorism.” ###
06.23.2016	06.23.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Supreme Court Decision Blocking Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 4-4 in United States vs. State of Texas, which leaves in place a lower court injunction blocking President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling further halts President Obama’s executive amnesty and upholds the Constitutional balance of powers. Yet, Americans should not have to rely on the courts to ensure President Obama follows the laws he is sworn to uphold. I am proud that Georgia joined a majority of states to stand up against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty. There are real national security risks associated with illegal immigration, which is why we must first secure our border and restore the rule of law in our country.” Background: The U.S. Supreme Court took up United States vs. State of Texas after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in November of 2015 affirmed a previous decision by a federal district court in Brownsville, Texas, to halt the Obama Administration from moving forward with its executive actions on immigration that are in violation of federal law. In April 2016, Senator Perdue joined 42 senators in filing an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court in support of Georgia’s and a group of states’ legal challenge in United States vs. State of Texas. ###
06.21.2016	06.21.16 Bipartisan Group Of Foreign Relations Members Condemn Russian Aggression Outline Russia’s provocative behavior and violations to international agreements in bipartisan resolution WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jim Risch (R-ID), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), all members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, have introduced a bipartisan resolution that calls on Russia to cease provocative military maneuvers that endanger U.S. forces and calls on the U.S., its European allies, and the international community to continue to apply pressure on Moscow. “Under President Vladimir Putin, Russia has become increasingly assertive and aggressive militarily,” said Senator Perdue. “We’ve recently seen Russian military personnel taunting U.S. military units with provocative military maneuvers. Not only are these actions irresponsible, but they also endanger the lives of American and Russian soldiers alike and fly in the face of decades-long agreements between our two nations. Further, Russia continues to build up its military, cyber capabilities, and poses direct challenges to stated U.S. interests. Today, we come together to condemn Russia’s provocative and antagonistic behavior.” “From invading Ukraine to provocative and reckless behavior directed at U.S. warships, Vladimir Putin’s Russia continues to incite instability in the global community and violate international law,” said Senator Gardner. “On a recent trip to Europe to discuss NATO readiness to counter the Russian threat, I met with European leaders, U.S. diplomats, and military personnel, and we all agreed on the need for strong U.S. leadership and enhanced presence in the face of Russia’s increasingly belligerent actions. As U.S. and NATO military leaders told me during my visit: “virtual presence is actual absence.” The United States cannot lead from behind, and we must reassure our allies that the United States stands firmly behind its NATO commitment, including Article 5 of the NATO Charter regarding collective defense. The Obama Administration must hold Russia accountable and lead the effort to address Russia’s bad behavior.” “I’m alarmed by Russia’s dangerous maneuvers directed at the U.S. military in international waters and airspace,” said Senator Johnson. “Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to demonstrate that he’s not looking for off-ramps that would de-escalate tensions with the West. He’s only looking for on-ramps to destabilize Europe and threaten the United States and our allies. We must make it clear that the U.S. stands firmly with our allies in the face of persistent Russian aggression.” “Russian President Vladimir Putin is once again flexing his muscles, clearly challenging the post-Cold War order, demanding a clear and consequential response to prevent him from continuing to threaten international order and stability,” said Senator Menendez. “As an author of effective sanctions in response to past Russian aggression, I join my colleagues in sending President Putin our unequivocal response: Continue Russian aggression, with violence against peaceful opposition, election-rigging, human rights abuses and corruption, international adventurism in Georgia, Ukraine, Syria, Iraq and elsewhere, and risk more isolation, more sanctions, and greater consequences. If President Putin continues to flex his muscles assuming there will be no consequences, he is mistaken.” “The United States and the international community must stand strong against Russian aggression and the Kremlin’s ongoing efforts to undermine the sovereignty of its neighbors,” said Senator Shaheen. “Moscow’s provocative actions now endanger U.S. and allied service members, and this is unacceptable. We strongly condemn Russia’s reckless actions, and we must not tolerate interference with the right of the United States and our allies to operate freely in international airspace and waters.” Russia has sought to reassert its dominance on the world stage by engaging in increasingly aggressive military behavior. These recent provocative military maneuvers, many of which have been directed specifically at the U.S., violate the 1972 agreement on Prevention of Incidents On and Over the High Seas. Meanwhile, Russia has begun significantly building up their military presence in Eastern Europe, which has prompted NATO to respond by positioning more than 4,000 additional troops to the region, including at least 1,000 U.S. service members. Further, the State Department has found that Russia is in continued violation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. Russia has pushed the envelope for too long and the time has come for the U.S. express a formal condemnation of these actions as unsafe, unprofessional, unwarranted, and unacceptable. Specifically, the Senators’ resolution would: Condemn recent dangerous and unprofessional Russian intercepts of U.S.-flagged aircraft and vessels; Call on Russia to cease its provocative military maneuvers that endanger American and allied forces; Call on the U.S., European allies, and the international community to continue to apply pressure on the government of Russia to stop its provocative behavior; Reaffirm the right of the U.S. to operate military aircraft and vessels in international airspace and waters.
06.21.2016	06.21.16 Senator David Perdue: From The Onset, President Obama Misplaced His Trust In Iran “Why the Obama Administration isn’t calling for a further review of the Parchin site by the IAEA is unfathomable.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after the Obama Administration acknowledged that International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors found traces of man-made uranium at Parchin, Iran’s secret nuclear weapon facility: “The Obama Administration has naively trusted Iran to be forthcoming about its nuclear program—a program it spent the last decade hiding from the world. A December 2015 IAEA report shows that the belligerent nation went so far as to remove and replace layers of soil to hide nuclear material at the Parchin military facility. Traces of uranium were found by IAEA inspectors and reported months ago. Now, the Obama Administration has finally admitted that this site was likely linked to the country’s covert nuclear weapons program, and yet does not call Iran out for its blatant cover-up. From the onset, President Obama misplaced his trust in Iran and this has already proven to be a grave mistake. Why the Obama Administration isn’t calling for a further review of the Parchin site by the IAEA is unfathomable.” Last December, the IAEA put out a 16-page report titled, “Final Assessment on Past and Present Outstanding Issues regarding Iran’s Nuclear Program.” In the report, the IAEA stated that its inspectors found traces of man-made uranium. At the time of the report’s release, the Obama Administration did not comment on the discovery of uranium particles but still moved forward with its dangerous nuclear deal. ###
06.20.2016	06.20.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Stop Terrorists From Purchasing Guns “Keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists is absolutely a priority.” WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to stop terrorists from purchasing guns while protecting the Constitutional rights of all law-abiding Americans: “As we confront a global security crisis and the most heinous act of terror here in America since 9/11, keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists is absolutely a priority. We can all agree on that. The common-sense solutions I supported today would help keep guns away from terrorists while protecting the Constitutional rights of all law-abiding Americans. Unfortunately, partisan politics stalled these efforts. This clearly warrants a full and serious debate in order to get the policy right.” Senator Perdue supported the Protecting Communities and Preserving the Second Amendment Act of 2016, sponsored by Senator Grassley (R-IA), and the Securing Our Homeland from Radical Islamists and Enhancing Law Enforcement Detection Act, sponsored by Senator Cornyn (R-TX), which would: Stop terrorists on a watch list or no-fly list from buying guns; Protect the Constitutional rights of law-abiding Americans by requiring the government to prove that an individual trying to obtain a gun is involved with terrorism; Improve coordination and record submission to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) from states and other agencies.
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Senator David Perdue Sets Record Straight On Tri-State Water Rights Dispute “Some in this body are short-circuiting litigation through the appropriations process.” WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor to set the record straight on the continuing dispute over water rights between Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. “Georgia has been a good steward of our water resources, and this has repeatedly been validated,” said Senator Perdue. “In fact, metro Atlanta water systems have gone above and beyond the necessary water management practices to ensure that they are conserving as much water as possible and efficiently using the water they do withdraw.” Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to continue setting the record straight for the ongoing issue of water rights between Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and the Army Corps of Engineers. As I said yesterday, language from the committee report that accompanies this CJS – Commerce, Justice, and Science – bill has been inserted in an attempt to strong-arm the outcome of a matter that should clearly be left to the states. This is an interstate dispute with negotiations and litigation still pending. And much like other parts of the country, the states have been in negotiations for many years. Clearly, this is not a matter that Congress needs to insert itself into. Furthermore, this is a debate we have already had. Last year, the leaders of both chambers determined that Congress has no business using the appropriations process to tip the scales one way or the other on this water rights issue. So, why are we going through this again? This is not the work our constituents had in mind for us when they sent us up here. They expect us to deliver results, and they expect the national interest – and the Constitution – to come before the self-interest of a select few members of the Senate. But yet again, the senior senator from Alabama is attempting to impose Washington as the solution for a matter that should be, and is being, handled by the states. For over 20 years, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, have litigated and negotiated over water rights issues. Despite decades of litigation, neither Alabama nor Florida has been able to prove any real or substantial harm resulting from the Army Corps of Engineers’ or Georgia’s water management practices. As a matter of fact, they are under court direction today. The numbers show this. Since 1980, the population of the Metro Atlanta Water District has more than doubled, from just over 2 million to over 5 million, and that’s as a percentage of about 10 and a half million people in the state as a whole, and that’s in 2014. Since 2000 alone, the population in the metro area has grown by over 1 million. Since the formation of the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District in 2001, water withdrawals in metro Atlanta have actually decreased dramatically, even as the population grew by more than 1 million. As a matter of fact, the consumer per capita has gone down by more than one-third. This is good management. Georgia has been a good steward of our water resources, and this has repeatedly been validated. In fact, metro Atlanta water systems have gone above and beyond the necessary water management practices to ensure that they are conserving as much water as possible and efficiently using the water they do withdraw properly. There are 15 counties in the Metro District from 2000 to 2013, and as I said, water withdraws have declined by than more than one-third. Both Alabama and Florida have consistently lost in court because their claims have been found to be baseless. Because they can’t win in court, now we see the senior senator from Alabama trying to win through the appropriations process in Congress. There is a case on this issue currently being litigated between the states in the U.S. Supreme Court that is due to be heard by a court-appointed special master in November of this year. There is another case pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, and yet another one pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. We need to allow the legal process to run its natural course on these cases. But, again, some in this body are short-circuiting that litigation through the appropriations process. That’s just not appropriate. This short-circuiting would have improper outcomes on these court cases. That speaks volumes. We were not sent here to pick winners and losers among the states. This is a matter for the states involved to litigate and negotiate, as are all interstate disputes. And, by the way, this could set a dangerous precedent not just for these three states, but for all states who have water rights issues. This is a matter for the states involved to litigate and negotiate, as are all interstate disputes. This is not a matter to be dealt with through the appropriations process of the federal government. Attempts at this kind of Washington meddling are exactly why many of our constituents have lost trust in this body. We must remove this language from the CJS bill, or we will set a dangerous precedent moving forward.”
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight to Dismantle Harmful Water Wars Language in Spending Bill Introduce amendments to ensure Georgia is not unfairly disadvantaged in a decades-long tristate water dispute WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), today introduced two amendments to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) appropriations measure seeking to dismantle language in the bill that directly attacks the state of Georgia in the longstanding legal water dispute with Florida and Alabama. “We are strongly opposed to the language included in the underlying bill that politicizes an issue that should be resolved between Georgia, Florida and Alabama, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the courts,” said Senator Isakson. “This is absolutely the wrong way to resolve disputes among our states, and Georgia has been working in good faith for years to resolve these disputes. Our state remains focused on continued conservation efforts so that we are good stewards of the water resources in these river basins. I am prepared to use every tool at my disposal to ensure Georgia is not unfairly disadvantaged in a decades-long tristate water dispute.” “Both Alabama and Florida have consistently lost in court because their claims have been found to be baseless,” said Senator Perdue earlier today in a speech on the Senate floor. “Now, because of unfavorable court rulings, we are seeing a senator attempt to tip the scales in this water dispute by short-circuiting that litigation through the appropriations process. That’s just not appropriate. These amendments will remove this harmful language from this appropriations bill and preserve the progress the three states have made in these ongoing water negotiations.” Language was introduced by an Alabama senator to the Fiscal Year 2017 Senate Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies appropriations bill that injects Congress into a legal battle between states that has been ongoing for more than 20 years. Currently, litigation is pending in the U.S. Supreme Court, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The matter before the Supreme Court is set to go to trial in November while the matters pending in the other courts could see action later this year as well. One of the amendments introduced by Senators Isakson and Perdue would remove the harmful language from the bill entirely. A second amendment would prohibit federal funds from being used to unfairly tip the scales in favor of one state over another before the courts have ruled on Georgia’s water supply needs and the Army Corps of Engineers has finalized a policy regulating return water flow credits. Earlier this week, Senators Isakson and Perdue spoke on the Senate floor saying Congress should not be in the business of using the appropriations process to intervene in interstate disputes, especially in a case such as this in which litigation is pending. Both Senators voted against proceeding to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Senator David Perdue: Congressional Involvement In State Water Rights Issue Sets Dangerous Precedent “It is not this body’s place to try and tip the scales.” WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor to explain his opposition to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 because of the damaging impact it would have on ongoing water negations between Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. “It is not this body’s place to try and tip the scales in any way on this matter,” said Senator Perdue. “Furthermore, we have already had this fight. This same language was inserted last year during debate over the Omnibus spending bill…When the leaders in this body and the leader in the House saw what was really happening in this language, they both independently removed it. Nothing has changed to merit having this debate again.” Click here to view the speech or click on the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to highlight my opposition to the cloture motion on the appropriations bill for the Department of Commerce, Department of Justice, and the Science Agencies and to discuss an issue of critical importance to my home state of Georgia. And, what I think is a direct abuse of what the Founders intended for Senate debate. For over 20 years, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and the Army Corps of Engineers have been engaged in various lawsuits over water rights between those three states. Georgia has two reservoirs in question – Lake Lanier and Lake Allatoona – operated by the Corps that provide drinking water for Metro-Atlanta and provide water downstream for the Chattahoochee, Flint, Coosa, and Tallapoosa rivers. These river basins also provide water to South Georgia and parts of Alabama and Florida. Currently, litigation is pending in the United States Supreme Court, the federal DC District Court, and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Negotiations are also ongoing between the state governments on this very topic and I believe they are closer to a solution, right now, than we’ve ever been. Clearly, this is an issue that should be left to the states to settle through negotiation and, if needed, litigation. But now another attempt is being made by some in the Senate to surreptitiously influence the courts through language included in the report that accompanies this CJS bill. We will vote on that bill sometime this afternoon and I strongly oppose this bill. This is the business of the states, and should not be resolved or influenced in this manner. Let me be clear, it is not this body’s place to try and tip the scales in any way on this matter. Furthermore, we have already had this fight. This same language was inserted last year during debate over the Omnibus spending bill. It was removed then after further examination and explanation was given to leaders in both Chambers over its purpose. Let me reiterate that. When the leaders in this body and the leader in the House saw what was really happening in this language, they both independently removed the language. It was removed then, and nothing has changed to merit having this debate again. Multiple lawsuits and negotiations between the states are ongoing. There’s nothing unusual about that. Any attempt to create a role for Congress during the appropriations process on this issue would set a dangerous precedent and should alarm every Senator who cares about the rights and integrity of the states. Injecting Congress into this world gives an unjust advantage to other states involved, stripping away any incentive for them to negotiate in good faith with our state of Georgia. Furthermore, this Congressional involvement would establish a dangerous precedent for any state involved in water resource negotiations. The negotiations on water rights in the west make this pale in comparison. That is not a role our Founders intended for Congress to play, and inserting the federal government into another issue where it doesn’t belong would be emblematic of why folks back home are so fed up with the dysfunction in Washington. For these reasons and others I will discuss throughout this week I will vote no on advancing to the CJS Appropriations bill.”
06.13.2016	06.13.16 Georgia Senators Warn Colleagues From Advancing Bill With Harmful Interstate Water Provision Reaffirm strong opposition to controversial water language WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted their strong opposition to any appropriations bill that includes controversial language directly impacting Georgia’s water supply and any ongoing water rights litigation between multiple states: “There is report language in the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill that directly interjects this Congress into a tristate water dispute between the state of Georgia, Alabama and Florida that has gone on for 27 years,” said Senator Isakson during remarks before the Senate on Monday. “We have no place as a Senate or as a Congress to inject ourselves into a case that's pending litigation in the courts on issues that are purely between states. Senator Isakson continued, “I was sent here to represent 10.4 million people in the state of Georgia. If somebody is trying to inject themselves beyond the appropriate place, I’m going to do everything I can to stop them. The way I will start that tomorrow will be to vote ‘No’ on the motion to proceed until this nefarious language has been removed.” “We are going to use every tool at our disposal to stop any bill from moving forward that would negatively impact any state’s water supply,” said Senator Perdue. “Not only do we believe this issue was resolved last year, but we remain firm in our commitment that this should not be dealt with through the appropriations process. Any appropriations language seeking to influence the outcome of this matter will inappropriately impact the ongoing negotiations between the states and the pending litigation in federal court.” In March, Senators Isakson and Perdue sent a letter to Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid to remind them of their opposition to the harmful water allocation language included in last year’s Energy and Water Appropriations bill and subsequently, the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2016. “This letter is meant to reaffirm that we will not support any legislation that includes language reversing the progress made with the Corps regarding the use of its water in the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) or Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) basins,” wrote the Senators. “Both basins provide critical water resources to a significant portion of our state.” Read the full letter here.
06.12.2016	06.12.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Orlando Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement on the horrific nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida: “My heart breaks for those injured and killed this morning in this horrific act of terror. Bonnie and I join our fellow Georgians in lifting up the victims and their families during this devastating time. We also offer our support to the brave law enforcement officials and the state of Florida as they work to aid the victims and investigate this reprehensible act of mass violence.”
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Senator David Perdue: Debt Is Undermining Our Ability To Fund National Defense Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, today spoke on the Senate Floor about how the national debt is undermining our ability to fully support out national defense priorities. Click here to view the speech or on the image below. Transcript: “There are only six reasons why 13 colonies got together in the first place, and one of those six was to provide for the national defense. That’s what we’ve been talking about this week. As we debate the National Defense Authorization Act, I want to add a different perspective to this debate. Today, the world is the most dangerous it’s been in my lifetime. We are in the midst of a global security crisis. We have major threats facing our country: we see the rise of aggression from traditional rivals—Russia and China, we have the rise of ISIS and networks around the world spreading terrorism, we see the proliferation of nuclear capability among rogue nations North Korea and Iran. Then, we see hybrid warfare that’s being perpetrated today and—what we are not talking about –the growing arms race in space. All of this adds to a very dangerous world and puts people, right here in the United States, in danger. As we face increasing threats—at the very time when we need our military to be stronger—we are disinvesting in our military. Over the last 30 years or so, we’ve had three Democratic presidents. All have disinvested in the military for different reasons. First, we had President Carter, then we had President Clinton, and now, we have President Obama. They disinvested in the military to a point where we are spending about 3% of GDP on our military. That’s about 6 billion dollars. The 30-year average of military spending is 4.1% of GDP. That would mean a difference of $200 billion from where we are now. What I’m concerned about is as we sit here facing these additional threats today, we now have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI and the smallest and oldest Air Force ever. The administration’s current plan, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), is to continue to disinvest in our military—taking defense spending down to 2.6% of GDP in the next 10 years. This is a dangerous new low that we cannot allow to happen. As we look at the overall defense spending authorization levels in this NDAA bill, we’re falling short of where we need to be based on the threats that we face. Don’t just take my word for it. Secretary Bob Gates’ defense budget in 2011 was the last proposal before sequestration took place. That was the last defense budget based on an actual assessment of the threats, not arbitrary limitations. The Gates budget estimate for the last fiscal year, FY 16, was $615 billion, or roughly $646 billion in constant dollars. Now, as for 2017 our topline is estimated right now of what we’re trying to get approved at $602 billion. That is a far cry from what Secretary Gates called for based on threats—before the rise of ISIS, before the Benghazi attacks on our embassy, before Russia seized Crimea and invaded eastern Ukraine, and before China started building islands in the South China Sea. How did we get here? Today, we’ve got an absolute financial catastrophe. We’re borrowing about 30% of what we spend as the federal government. It’s projected over the next 10 years, we again will borrow about 30% of what we spend. My argument has been that we can no longer be just debt hawks. We have to also be defense hawks. Those two can no longer be mutually exclusive. In order to solve the global security crisis, I believe we have to solve our own financial debt crisis. We all know we have $19 trillion in debt and this is set to reach $30 trillion in the next decade unless we do something about it. Right now, the problem is not discretionary spending. The major problem is in our mandatory spending: Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, pension benefits for federal employees, and the interest on our debt. We’ve basically been living in an artificial world, as interest rates have basically been zero. Our debt has made it impossible to fund our national defense, but also to set the right priorities. To deal with the global security crisis, we need to be honest about what our military needs. That gets difficult sometimes. Today, we have national security priorities that aren’t getting properly funded and yet we know we’re spending money inefficiently. First of all, we have missions that we aren’t able to maintain. Take a look at our Marine Expeditionary Units, the MEUs, around the world. Because of defense cuts, there aren’t enough amphibious ships for the Marines to have what’s known as a theater reserve force, also known as a MEU. As a result, for missions like crisis response and embassy protection in Africa, we now have a Special Purpose MAGTF covering this task, based on the ground in Moron, Spain. The best, and I mean the very best of America, is in uniform around the world. Taking caring of our interests, protecting our interests, and our freedom here at home. Even this force is seeing a cut in their fleet sizes which ultimately cuts down their ability to respond and increases risk. Another example is the recap program for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS), the number 4 acquisition priority for the Air Force, and a critical provider of ISR, ground targeting, and battlefield command and control to all branches of our military in almost every region of the world. As the old fleet is reaching the end of its service life, we going to have to have a new fleet come online quickly. The problem is, we’re seeing a projected seven year gap where that capability will no longer be available in full force for the people that need it the most—the people on the ground in harm’s way. We’re not able to fund the military at the force size we need either. As a result, we’re putting greater pressure on personnel and burning up our troops. They spend more time on rotations overseas and not enough time with their families at home and it’s causing problems. It’s causing turnover. And the forces that we have aren’t getting the training they need. For example, two-thirds of Army units are only training at the squad and platoon levels, not in full combat formations, and we have Air Force pilots leaving the service because they’ve cut back so dramatically on training flights. These examples highlight why we need to scrutinize every dollar we spend on defense, so we can ensure these dollars go to our critical requirements of protecting our men and women around the world. To that end, we need to improve fiscal accountability at the DOD and to highlight the needs we’re currently not fulfilling. Our Department of Defense has never been audited. Even today, we cannot dictate to the DOD that they provide an audit. Their answer is that they’re too big and it’s too complicated, too difficult to do. Can you imagine Walmart calling the SEC and saying, ‘sorry, we’re not going to comply with your requirements. We’re not going to send in our audit?’ I also think we should withhold funds until a plan is put in place that allows the Pentagon to keep track of its military equipment. It’s been 13 years since this tracking policy was established, yet they still aren’t in compliance. This is all about responsibly funding our military. The women and men in uniform who are on the front lines deserve that. Finally, to address a critical need discussed earlier—JSTARS—Senator Isakson and I have been working to get the replacement fleet ready to go sooner to eliminate this gap. I am committed to ensuring we have what we need to support our servicemen and women. These efforts will help make the Pentagon accountable and focus funds on critical priorities. This debate is all about setting the right priorities, not just in the military, but also with other domestic programs and mandatory expenditures. This debate is all about setting the right priorities to make sure that we can do what the Constitution calls us to do: provide for the national defense. The national debt crisis and our global security crisis are interlocked inextricably. We are not going to solve the dilemma of providing for national defense until we solve this national debt crisis. Our servicemen and women and our combatant commanders don’t have—and will not have—the training, equipment, and preparation they need to fulfill their missions and face growing threats. It’s time that Washington faces up to the crisis. This is not just about the NDAA, this is about the defense of our country and the future of our very way of life. We simply have to come to grips with this NDAA, pass it, and make sure we find a way to address this debt crisis so that every year going forward we don’t have this drama of finding a way to fund our military and protect our country. We simply have to come to grips and set the right priorities required to defend our country.”
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Senator David Perdue Encourages Support For U.S. Military Efforts To Combat Drug Trafficking WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has introduced an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to encourage support for U.S. military efforts to combat drug trafficking at our southern border and throughout the Western Hemisphere. “Our military plays a critical role in stopping the flow of illegal drugs throughout the Western Hemisphere and we need to support this vital mission,” said Senator Perdue. “In recent years, we have seen criminals use drug routes for other illicit behavior—weapons trafficking, human trafficking, and illegal immigration. SOUTHCOM and NORTHCOM coordinate with law enforcement to combat drug trafficking and often rely on critical military surveillance tools like JSTARS. We need to identify critical gaps in this mission and how to fill them.” “Powerful and well-resourced, these groups traffic in drugs—including cocaine, heroin, marijuana, counterfeit pharmaceuticals, and methamphetamine—small arms and explosives, precursor chemicals, illegally mined gold, counterfeit goods, people, and other contraband,” said General John Kelly, former SOUTHCOM Commander. “They engage in money laundering, bribery, intimidation, and assassinations. They threaten the very underpinnings of democracy itself: citizen safety, rule of law, and economic prosperity. And they pose a direct threat to the stability of our partners and an insidious risk to the security of our nation.” Due to resource restraints, our military’s capability to disrupt drug trafficking in the Western Hemisphere is limited. Senator Perdue’s amendment requires the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Commanders of U.S. Southern Command and U.S. Northern Command, to produce a report on U.S. military efforts to detect and monitor trafficking of illegal drugs in the Western Hemisphere. This report will call attention to this critical issue and hopefully lead to the allocation of more military resources to secure our southern border.
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Join Resolution To Stop DOL Rule That Will Harm Hardworking Americans, Small Employers Resolution of disapproval awaits Senate vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today cosponsored legislation to stop the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) from implementing another aggressive regulation that will harm hardworking Americans and small business owners. “It is regulations such as this one that are hindering economic growth and true recovery in our country,” said Senator Isakson, who chairs the Senate labor subcommittee. “This latest overtime pay regulation denies working families the opportunity to have flexible schedules or to work from home because it forces employers to track every hour they work, even if they’re paid an annual salary. It will especially harm non-profits such as charities, churches, and colleges and universities that are unable to meet the higher costs brought on by this red tape. I will do everything I can to stop this rule and prevent the administration from placing additional burdens on our job market.” “President Obama’s economic policies are failing the very people they claim to champion – the working middle class,” said Senator Perdue. “Unnecessary government regulations are forcing companies to restructure and dedicate more of their bottom line to compliance costs. This directly impacts workers. Now, in order to comply with President Obama’s new overtime regulation, Georgia businesses are forced to consider cutting employee hours or replacing full-time employees with part-time workers. The Obama economy is failing and it is time for a new direction.” On May 18, 2016, the Labor Department finalized a rule that forces many small businesses, non-profits, and higher education institutions to reclassify some salaried employees as hourly employees. The rule will likely prompt employers to cut jobs or reduce salaries, and could deprive middle class workers the chance to negotiate flexible work schedules. Senate Labor Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) introduced the resolution of disapproval, which falls under the Congressional Review Act, to block this new rule from being implemented. Background: The Labor Department’s latest regulation will more than double the salary level under which workers would be required to receive overtime pay whenever they work more than 40 hours in any given week. Currently, salaried workers who earn less than $23,660 are automatically entitled to overtime pay. Under Obama’s new rule, salaried workers who earn less than $47,476 would be automatically entitled to overtime pay. Further, this threshold is scheduled to increase every three years without Congressional approval. The proposal also will force employers to track the hours of many salaried employees each week to prove whether they worked more than 40 hours. On March 14, 2016, the Labor Department took overtly political steps to fast-track this controversial overtime rule so that the deadline for Congress to challenge it under the Congressional Review Act would occur while President Obama still has the opportunity to veto the challenge before he leaves office, thus denying the American people the opportunity to object through their representatives in Congress. Senators Isakson and Perdue have also co-sponsored legislation that would prevent the overtime rule from being enforced until the Department of Labor has completed additional studies about the potential negative effects the regulation could have. It would require the Department of Labor to follow the strict process of proposing a new rule any time it sought to increase the salary threshold for overtime pay. The Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act, S.2707, was introduced on March 17, 2016.
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Senator David Perdue Introduces Amendments To Improve Fiscal Accountability At Pentagon WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, introduced three amendments to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would save taxpayer dollars and hold the Pentagon accountable for its fiscal decisions. “We are past the tipping point in our national debt crisis,” said Senator Perdue. “Providing for our national defense is a core responsibility of the government, and we must seek greater accountability within our defense budget. Applying business measures like audits and equipment tracking policies help safeguard taxpayer dollars and should be implemented across every sector of the federal government, including the Department of Defense. Additionally, when departments save money, they should be applauded for their cost saving efforts—not threatened with budget cuts for subsequent years.” Senator Perdue’s amendments would: Amendment 4203: Require the Secretary of the Department of Defense to present a plan to Congress within 90 days to perform an audit no later than September 1, 2017. Amendment 4109: Curtail excessive end-of-the-fiscal-year spending, often attributed to fear of losing future funding, by outlining long-term savings recommendations that provide tactical units with greater budget flexibility on year-end obligations. Amendment 4110: Hold the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) accountable for creating a plan to implement the Department of Defense's Item Unique Identification (IUID) policy, which is a more efficient and reliable process to track assets (furniture, equipment, maintenance parts, etc.) through automatic identification technology. This policy has been in place since 2003, and the DCMA has yet to implement it.
06.03.2016	06.03.16 Senator David Perdue Sends Letter to Secretary Kerry Raising Concerns About International Meeting On Israeli-Palestinian Conflict WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry outlining concerns regarding the Paris Peace Conference that begins today: “Many of those coming to Paris to discuss the conflict have consistently supported one-sided, anti-Israel efforts at the UN and its different agencies. Further, these nations do not enjoy the trust of the Israelis,” Senator Perdue wrote in the letter. “Convening this meeting and considering a follow-on international conference diminishes pressure on the Palestinians to engage in direct talks.” Senator Perdue also urged Secretary Kerry to “push back against any efforts to impose any plan upon the parties or to endorse parameters for future negotiations.” It is paramount Secretary Kerry stands by our ally Israel throughout this meeting and works to advance Israel’s priorities. Additionally, to advance the cause of peace, Senator Perdue is calling on Secretary Kerry to ensure the gathering does not divert attention from the need for direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Read the full text of the letter here.
06.03.2016	06.03.16 Senator David Perdue Announces June Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of June. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s June mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Northwest Georgia Wednesday, June 15 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Dade County Commissioners Meeting Room 71 Case Avenue Trenton, GA 30752 Central Savannah River Area Wednesday, June 22 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Augusta Vet Center 2050 Walton Way #100 Augusta, GA 30904 Southwest Georgia Thursday, June 23 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. South Georgia Regional Library‎ Nix Room 300 Woodrow Wilson Drive Valdosta, Georgia 31602 Southeast Georgia Monday, June 27 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. The Pate Building 3rd Floor Conference Room 1725 Reynolds Street Brunswick, GA 31520
06.02.2016	06.02.16 Senators Perdue, Cotton Call For Full Declassification Review of Guantanamo Detainees’ Terrorist Activity WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Tom Cotton (R-AR), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Director of National Intelligence to complete a declassification review of intelligence reports on previous terrorist activities of former Guantanamo Bay prisoners and make public information on any of the released or transferred detainees’ past terror-related behavior. “We are in the midst of a war on terror, but to make good on a political promise, President Obama has spent the last year trying to empty out our nation’s detention facility at Guantanamo Bay,” said Senator Perdue. “The President has suggested that ‘only a handful’ of Guantanamo detainees will return to a life of terrorism, when we know about 30 percent of released detainees are either known or suspected to have reengaged in terrorist activity. Before releasing another detainee from Guantanamo, the American people need to know about the past behavior of those who have already been released or transferred. The Obama Administration needs to stand accountable for the types of terrorists it’s releasing from Guantanamo. That’s why Senator Cotton and I have requested a full review and declassification of intelligence reports to be made available to the public immediately.” “The detainees leaving Guantanamo Bay are hardened terrorists and their release puts U.S. lives and our national security interests at risk. The numbers don't lie: almost one in three detainees released from Guantanamo Bay are confirmed or suspected of returning to the fight. Most recently, we've seen reports of former detainees joining forces with the Islamic State. Regrettably, many of these transfers are hashed out behind closed doors,” said Senator Cotton. “This is unacceptable. The American people and the nations accepting these hardened terrorists have a right to know what’s at risk when these individuals are released, and Senator Perdue and I are committed to ensuring this by requiring a complete declassification review of the intelligence on their past terrorist activities.” A recent intelligence report revealed that 196 of the 653 former detainees were “confirmed or suspected” of returning to the fight, and recent estimates show that 122 of these detainees are not in any sort of restrictive custody. Currently, there are fewer than 90 terrorists incarcerated at Guantanamo Bay. This includes high-level terrorists, whom military officials have determined to be too dangerous to transfer to other countries. ###
06.01.2016	06.01.16 Senator David Perdue Announces Service Academy Nominees ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced the appointments of 19 Georgia students nominated by his office to the United States Service Academies. On Monday, June 6, 2016, Senator Perdue will be holding a breakfast in honor of the young women and men who have been nominated and offered an appointment to one of the United States Service Academies. “Georgia has a strong military community. We are surrounded by families, friends, and neighbors that have tirelessly served our great country. The strength of our future is in our students who choose to pursue this great honor,” said Senator Perdue. “I am proud to have nominated these young leaders for admission to our United States Service Academies, and I look forward to seeing these fine students excel and lead at the highest level.” The following students have been nominated by Senator Perdue: U.S. Naval Academy Andrew Murphy – LawrencevilleZachary Toole – BainbridgeCaleb Corban – LaGrangeJeesoo Chon – Johns CreekChristopher Lumley – Buford U.S. Air Force Academy Anastasia Choi – AlpharettaJacob Heydinger – Dewy RoseJonathan Lin – Johns CreekDustin Priaulx – Warner RobinsCoen Williams – BrookhavenJack Bluth – AlpharettaParker Spearman – Dunwoody U.S. Military Academy Daniel Archer – ChickamaugaPalmer Fields – KennesawAlexander Herndon – SavannahCalli McMullen – Haddock U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Carissa Buonerba – TyroneJohn Gallagher – ClarkesvilleJoshua McMahon – Acworth
05.27.2016	05.27.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge TSA to Bring Newly Hired Security Screeners to Georgia Cite hours-long wait times, increased summer travel at world’s busiest passenger airport in Atlanta WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) are calling on the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to increase the number of security screeners at Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport—the world’s busiest passenger airport. In a letter to TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger, the Senators cite hours-long delays at Hartsfield security check points as well as the upcoming increase in summer travel as the critical need for deploying at least 100 additional transportation security officers to Atlanta. “The continued success of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is critical to the prosperity of metro Atlanta and the state of Georgia,” the Georgia Senators wrote. “Given the heavy passenger volumes forecast for Atlanta this summer, it is critical that adequate, trained personnel are in place to meet the expected demand.” “Increasing the number of transportation security officers will result in better, more efficient use of Hartsfield-Jackson’s many screening lanes during all periods of the day, and especially at peak travel times,” they continued. “This will help prevent passenger inconvenience and missed flights. Furthermore, quickly clearing passengers from non-secured areas will enhance airport safety.” The TSA recently announced plans to increase its number of transportation security officers by more than 700 new hires as part of an initiative to better equip and secure our nation’s airports. Senators Perdue and Isakson make the argument to TSA that given the height of summer travel and Atlanta being home to the world’s busiest airport, Hartsfield should receive no fewer than 100 of those new officers. In recent weeks, passengers traveling out of Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport and other big U.S. airports experienced extra-long security screening lines with wait times up to four hours for some. The busy summer rush is expected to continue over the next few months, including over the Memorial Day weekend, with tens of thousands of additional travelers expected to pass through Atlanta’s security checkpoints on certain days. A copy of the letter is available here.
05.26.2016	05.26.16 Senators Demand DOJ Cease Investigation Into Opponents of President Obama’s Energy Policies WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), and David Vitter (R-LA), all members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch demanding that the Department of Justice (DOJ) end its use of law enforcement resources against political opponents of President Obama’s energy agenda. “These actions provide disturbing confirmation that government officials at all levels are threatening to wield the sword of law enforcement to silence debate on climate change,” the letter reads. “As you well know, initiating criminal prosecution for a private entity’s opinions on climate change is a blatant violation of the First Amendment and an abuse of power that rises to the level of prosecutorial misconduct.” The letter goes on to demand that Attorney General Lynch confirm that all investigations into any private individual’s views on climate change end within 14 days and promise not to initiate any future such investigations. “I have serious concerns any time that the Department of Justice uses its power to repress constitutionally protected speech and open dialogue on any public policy issue,” said Senator Perdue. “Given the unprecedented politicization of the Obama Justice Department, the Senate Judiciary Committee’s oversight responsibilities have become more important than ever before. There is no place in our democracy for politically-motivated investigations by the Department of Justice.” “Threatening prosecution of those who dare to challenge the most outlandish scaremongering by climate activists strikes at the very heart of the Free Speech protections on which this nation was founded,” said Senator Lee. “Issuing subpoenas to harass researchers and academics with whom they have communicated, as some state attorneys general offices have done, shows a basic disregard for Americans’ Freedom of Association. The public expects us to prevent such abuses, not perpetrate them. It is our responsibility to contain the inevitable chilling effects by calling for an end to any consideration by the Department of Justice of such harassment at once.” “Freedom of thought and inquiry is at the very heart of liberty,” said Senator Cruz. “Sadly, the Obama administration and its allies in state attorney general offices across the country are threatening to use the power of government to intimidate and ultimately silence companies and researchers who do not agree with the government’s opinions about the allegedly harmful effects of climate change and what should be done about it. This is an abuse of power and a direct assault on the First Amendment. The Obama Justice Department should immediately cease any further consideration of such action and should instead do everything in its power to protect the freedom of thought of all Americans.” “Unnecessary government intrusion of private citizens’ lives is an unfortunate characteristic of the reign of the Obama Administration,” said Senator Vitter. “It is contemptible for the Justice Department to target and threaten individual American citizens and private or non-profit organizations in pursuit of its far-left environmental agenda.” Read the letter in its entirety here.
05.26.2016	05.26.16 Senator David Perdue Welcomes Georgian Serving As Guest Senate Chaplain WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today recognized Dr. Benny Tate, Senior Pastor of Rock Springs Church in Milner, Georgia, after he led the morning prayer on the floor of the U.S. Senate. Dr. Tate was the Senate Guest Chaplain for Thursday, May 26, 2016. Watch Dr. Tate’s opening prayer here and Senator Perdue’s remarks here. Transcript: “I want to take just a moment today to recognize Dr. Benny Tate of Rock Springs Church in Milner, Georgia, for being here with us and delivering this morning’s opening prayer. Benny is my personal pastor, my dear friend, and inspiration for both my wife and myself. He offered us constant prayer and support as I entered this political journey, and continues to do so today. Before I was sworn into the United States Senate, we joined Benny on a personal mission trip to Haiti. That was a life changing trip. We went to a community that had been stricken by the earthquake in 2010. We saw kids who were still sleeping and eating on the ground in tents. Yet we saw hope, and that is hope I will carry with me for the rest of my life because of this man, Benny Tate. So, thank you Brother Benny for your faith, your light, and your service. We are all honored to have you here today.”
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight To Make JSTARS A National Defense Priority WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, have offered two amendments to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure that the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) is maintained as a national defense priority. “The Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System platform is the best thing our U.S. military has in its arsenal for the coordination of battle management and intelligence capabilities to equip our warfighters in combat and continues to prevail in today’s Global War on Terrorism,” said Senator Isakson. “If we’re going to continue to be the preeminent force to maintain peace and civility as a world leader, we must have the best intelligence in the world. We’re committed to continuing our support for maintaining the existing fleet of aircraft while urging the Department of Defense to expedite the process for acquiring the new platform for a JSTARS replacement.” “Team JSTARS is a vital battlefield management and intelligence tool that must remain a priority,” said Senator Perdue. “The fleet, and the women and men who manage and maintain the fleet, are a key component in our war on terror and deterring Chinese and Russian aggression, as well as our counter-drug efforts in this hemisphere. Given the global security crisis we are facing today, we cannot afford to delay upgrading important military assets. These amendments instruct the Pentagon to act swiftly to ensure this critical platform stays in theater. Our combatant commanders demand it, and our troops on the ground depend on it.” Specifically, Amendment 4102 would authorize continued support for the current JSTARS fleet to ensure capability and presence until the new fleet is at Full Operational Capacity. To eliminate a swiftly approaching capabilities gap between the end of service life of the existing fleet and the replacement fleet, the senators offered Amendment 4103, which would require the Department of Defense to make JSTARS replacement a rapid acquisition program. A faster replacement of JSTARS will help ensure the safety of American troops in harm’s way. Last year, Senators Isakson and Perdue led a bipartisan letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter requesting that funding for JSTARS is prioritized in the fiscal year 2017 defense budget request. Unfortunately, the defense budget request for fiscal year 2017 would not close the pending capability gap on JSTARS and bring a replacement fleet online quickly enough. Additionally, Senators Isakson and Perdue previously published an opinion piece in Real Clear Defense to further emphasize the importance of JSTARS and urge the Pentagon to fully support the fleet’s recapitalization. ###
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On State Department’s Inspector General Report “When the very people tasked with leading our foreign policy efforts believe the rules do not apply to them, we have a real problem.” WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, today issued the following statement after the State Department Inspector General concluded that then-Secretary Hillary Clinton violated the agency’s policies on record-keeping and failed to report handling of classified information: “This report confirms what we have known for some time—there are serious and systemic problems at the State Department that span the tenure of several Secretaries. It is our oversight role on the State Department Management Subcommittee to hold the Department, and all of its officials, accountable so they do not abuse their power. Across all departments, the federal government should not be sending classified information through insecure channels and all records should be properly preserved. This is why the American people are so fed up with Washington. When the very people tasked with leading our foreign policy efforts believe the rules do not apply to them, we have a real problem. I will continue to work with State’s Inspector General to ensure that these recommendations are implemented and we begin to restore accountability to the State Department.” Last year, Senators Perdue and Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced the bipartisan Improving Department of State Oversight Act which would facilitate necessary changes to improve the State Department’s Office of the Inspector General to conduct more secure and more effective oversight. This legislation was included in the Senate-passed U.S. State Authorization Act of 2016 and is now before the House of Representatives for consideration.
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Senator David Perdue Votes To Overturn President Obama’s Retirement Regulation WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement after voting to overturn the Obama Administration’s new retirement regulation which limits access to retirement investment advice: “Our country is in the midst of a debt crisis and Americans are concerned about their financial well-being. Instead of limiting investment advice, President Obama and the Department of Labor should be promoting more retirement options for people wanting to save for their future. President Obama’s legacy of burdensome regulations has hurt the very people he claims to champion—the working middle class. Today, the Senate voted to get the federal government out of the way of Americans working hard to save for their retirement.” Additionally, Senator Perdue co-sponsored two bills that would require Congressional approval before any investment and retirement savings rules issued by the Obama Administration go into effect: the Affordable Retirement Advice Protection Act, introduced by Senator Isakson (R-GA), and the Strengthening Access to Valuable Education and Retirement Support (SAVERS) Act, introduced by Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL).
05.23.2016	05.23.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Secretary McDonald Comments on VA Wait Times WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement in response to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald’s comments comparing the length of time veterans wait to receive health care at the VA to the length of time people wait in lines at Disney: “The mere suggestion that a child waiting in line to meet Mickey Mouse is a similar experience to a veteran waiting for a PET scan or prosthetic fitting is offensive and shameful. Unlike the Secretary, I believe we should hold our veterans’ experience at a VA hospital to a higher standard than a child’s experience at a theme park. I call on Secretary McDonald to apologize for his offensive comments, and to show our American heroes the respect they deserve instead of making excuses for failed results.” ###
05.20.2016	05.20.16 Senator David Perdue Receives Award For Work To Fix National Debt Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, this week was named a Fiscal Hero by the Campaign to Fix the Debt for his work to improve our nation’s fiscal future and address the core drivers of the national debt. Campaign to Fix the Debt’s Maya MacGuineas presents Senator David Perdue with the Fiscal Hero award. “We are $19 trillion in debt today and on track to near $30 trillion in the next decade,” said Senator Perdue. “This mounting debt crisis will not fix itself and we must act now. It’s time for Washington to be honest with the American people. If we don’t get serious about tackling our debt crisis, we will not be able to fully support our national security and other top priorities. I am optimistic that we can fix this, but it will require working together to make some tough decisions. We simply cannot afford to wait any longer.” “Senator Perdue has worked through a variety of channels to draw attention and find solutions to the nation’s fiscal challenges,” said Maya MacGuineas, Head of the Campaign to Fix the Debt. “While many lawmakers have chosen to bury their heads when it comes to these issues, Senator Perdue has shown courage and leadership and has been willing to stand up for what is right for the country - even when it’s not easy to do so. The longer we wait, the more severe and difficult the choices will be to fix the debt. Yet very few Members of Congress take this problem seriously. Those who do, like Senator Perdue, deserve our thanks and praise.” The Campaign to Fix the Debt is a nonpartisan movement to put America on a better fiscal and economic path. To raise awareness about the national debt crisis and call attention to Washington’s broken budget process, Senator Perdue joined Maya MacGuineas in writing an op-ed in The Washington Times. Read the full op-ed here.
05.19.2016	05.19.16 Honoring Georgia’s Law Enforcement Community WASHINGTON, D.C. – To commemorate National Police Week, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement to pay tribute to Georgia’s law enforcement community and honor the eight Georgians killed in the line of duty in 2015: “During National Police Week, it is important we pause and reflect on the sacrifices our brave police officers make to keep us safe. We also take pause this week to remember the brave officers we have lost in the line of duty and lift their families up in prayer. No matter the situation, our first responders answer the call and help people in need. They are true public servants. I join my fellow Georgians in thanking our officers and their families as they continue to serve our communities.” Tragically, the following Georgians were killed in the line of duty in 2015: Detective Terence Avery Green of the Fulton County Police Department, Deputy Sheriff Richard Allen Hall of the Chatham County Sheriff’s Office, Sergeant James Bryan McCrystal of the Georgia Department of Corrections, Correctional Officer Gregory Dale Mitchell of the Georgia Department of Corrections, Sheriff Ladson Lamar O’Connor of the Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office, Corporal William Matthew Solomon of the Georgia Ports Authority Police Department, Master Patrol Officer Kevin Jermaine Toatley of the DeKalb County Police Department, Police Officer Darryl Deon Wallace of the Clayton County Police Department.
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Senator David Perdue Fights For Army Airfield Infrastructure WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) offered an amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill asking the U.S. Army to offer a plan to modernize its aging airfield hangars like the Apache hangars at Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah, Georgia, and other military installations across the country. “During my visit to Hunter Army Airfield last year, I saw firsthand the aging condition of our hangars and this continues to be a serious problem across the Army,” said Senator Perdue. “While Washington often focuses on combat operations and equipping our forces in the field, we cannot allow our military facilities to fall behind. Our nation must maintain and prioritize this investment to support our national defense. Modernizing the Apache hangars at Hunter Army Airfield is a clear example of one way we can ensure a safe and responsible working environment for our personnel as they prepare for combat missions abroad.” Senator Perdue’s amendment would ask the U.S. Army to produce a detailed report on the age and condition of hangars for Combat Aviation Units in order to help identify the most deficient infrastructure assets and devise a plan to modernize or replace them.
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Senator David Perdue: It Is Essential That We Address Zika Responsibly WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after supporting an amendment to responsibly fund Zika research by redirecting funding from other programs to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and several of our nation’s leading research facilities: “Zika is a serious public health risk facing the U.S. right now and it is essential that we address it responsibly. In my home state of Georgia, some of our country’s leading researchers located at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are working to help stop the spread of the Zika virus. After carefully examining the federal budget, I voted today to responsibly allocate federal funds to combat Zika and protect our communities, while not adding to the national debt.” Senator Perdue supported the fiscally responsible and fully paid for amendment, however, only the unfunded version passed the Senate.
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Senators Demand President Obama Fire Top Advisor For Iran Deal Deception Campaign Call for dismissal of staffer who misled public about dangerous nuclear negotiations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) joined U.S. Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL), John Cornyn (R-TX), and John Barrasso (R-WY) in calling for the dismissal of President Obama’s Deputy National Security Advisor, Ben Rhodes, after he admitted to misleading Congress and the American people about U.S.-Iran nuclear negotiations and the Obama Administration’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran. “We are deeply disturbed to read Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes’s public admission to The New York Times that he spearheaded the charge to mislead elected lawmakers and the American people about the Iran nuclear deal and the negotiations that led to this agreement,” the Senators wrote in a letter to President Obama. “We call on you to dismiss Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes before he further tarnishes the Office of President,” said the Senators. “Mr. Rhodes’s disrespectful, deceptive, and destructive conduct has fallen appallingly short of this standard. Indeed, if he had conducted himself this way in a typical place of business outside Washington, where American taxpayers work, he surely would have been already fired or asked to resign.” The Senators also asked President Obama how he plans to restore the public’s trust, “What steps will your Administration take to restore the trust of the American public and members of the news media after Mr. Rhodes’s admitted that he purposefully ‘created an echo chamber’ during the debate over the Iran nuclear deal with the objective of propagating misconceptions and ‘saying things that validated what we [the Administration] had given them to say’?” View the full letter here.
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Senator David Perdue: Obamacare Ruling Is A Resounding Victory For Our Constitution WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after U.S. District Court Judge Rosemary M. Collyer ruled that the Obama Administration has been improperly funding an Obamacare program: “This ruling is a resounding victory for our Constitution. The Founding Fathers purposefully created three separate branches of government with three clear roles, and for too long, we have seen President Obama overstep his authority and insert Washington into every aspect of our lives. President Obama’s time in office is coming to an end and rulings like this signal that many of President Obama’s overreaching policies could soon be coming to an end too.” In February, Senator Perdue and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) introduced the Empowering Patients First Act, legislation that was originally introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Tom Price (R-GA-06), to fully repeal and replace Obamacare with common-sense solutions that put patients back in charge of their health care decisions.
05.12.2016	05.12.16 Georgia Congressional Delegation Fights For Georgia Defense Priorities Urges top Air Force officials to bring new missions to Georgia, preserve critical close-air support WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) were joined today by U.S. Representatives Buddy Carter (R-GA-01), Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Hank Johnson (D-GA-04), Austin Scott (R-GA-08), and Tom Graves (R-GA-14) in urging two key U.S. Air Force officials to consider locating new missions at Georgia military bases while also voicing their opposition to premature divestment of the A-10 Thunderbolt II, saying it could jeopardize our nation’s close-air support capabilities and the safety of American service members. They invited the Air Force to assess Georgia bases for any future F-35 Joint Strike Fighter basing decisions. “We must remain ahead of our adversaries as they strive to rapidly develop and proliferate their own versions of advanced stealth fighter aircraft and weapons systems,” the Georgia Congressional delegation wrote in a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James and Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Mark Welsh. “Maintaining air dominance through the mid-2020s and beyond is non-negotiable for our national security objectives.” The delegation also praised the recent announcement by the Air Force that both Robins and Moody Air Force Bases were being considered as possible candidates for the new MQ-9 Reaper Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Wing, stating that “both installations and community partners are eager to help your teams as they assess each location.” Further, as the Air Force assesses bases for the Battlefield Airman Consolidation initiative, the Georgia members pointed out that the significant presence of battlefield airmen in the 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing at Moody Air Force Base makes it an ideal location for this consolidation effort. Since 2012, the Department of Defense and Air Force have discussed plans to retire a percentage of the A-10 fleet to support the transition to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The Georgia Congressional delegation warned of the increased risk that divesting the A-10 without an equally capable replacement would have on ground troops, including those in Syria who rely on this critical close-air support for their fight against the Islamic State in Iraq or the Levant, or ISIL. “We remain lock-step in our opposition to retiring the A-10 aircraft until a replacement becomes fully operational,” the Georgia delegation continued. “If the schedule published in the fiscal year 2017 presidential budget force structure actions slide comes to fruition, Moody Air Force Base will start losing 24 A-10s and associated personnel in fiscal year 2021. A loss of that magnitude will undoubtedly result in negative impacts across the surrounding communities.” This Congress, members of the Georgia Congressional delegation have held a number of meetings with key officials from each of the armed services in Washington, D.C., and have visited both Robins Air Force Base and Moody Air Force Base to discuss the importance of Georgia-based military equities and assets that play a critical role in our national defense. Last month, the delegation welcomed officials from Robins Air Force Base to Washington, D.C., for the first annual Robins Air Force Base Congressional Breakfast to promote the military and economic value of the base.
05.09.2016	05.09.16 President Signs Senator David Perdue's Bill To Stop ISIS From Selling Looted Artifacts Into Law Bipartisan bill restricts terrorists’ ability to profit from antiquities sales WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an original co-sponsor, released the following statement after President Obama signed into law the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act: “ISIS is raiding the cradle of civilization—destroying cultural property and selling artifacts on the black market—to help fund its reign of terror and purge the Middle East of non-Islamic history. Similar crimes have been committed throughout history, and the United States has led international efforts to protect cultural property and heritage. I am glad we were able to come together and stem the flow of money to ISIS by preventing these terrorists and their networks from selling stolen antiquities to anyone in the United States.” Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act in the U.S. Senate in July 2015. Congressmen Ed Royce (R-CA-39) and Eliot Engel (D-NY-16) previously introduced the bill in the House of Representatives in June 2015. The Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act unanimously passed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on February 2, 2016, and the U.S. Senate on April 13, 2016. The legislation was signed into law today.
05.03.2016	05.03.16 Senator David Perdue Releases Video: “Putting The Debt In Perspective” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released a video entitled “Putting The Debt In Perspective,” where he talks directly to Georgians about the real costs associated with Washington’s skyrocketing debt. This is the third installment in Senator Perdue’s budget video series on the national debt. View the first video entitled “Four Words Rarely Heard In Washington” and the second video entitled “Guiding Budget Principles.” Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “The first two videos in this series on the debt focused on dysfunction in Washington and Congress’s broken budget process. In the first video, we talked about the fact that Washington is doing many things we cannot afford and how the national debt crisis is interlocked with this global security crisis. In the second video, we discussed how the broken budget process is not serving to control the growth of the debt. The budget process, as we discussed, has only worked four times in the last 40 years. Both of these issues have led us to a point where we cannot afford to support our country’s national priorities—including the very defense of our country. It’s pretty clear we are already well past the tipping point in this debt crisis and in this video, we will discuss how it could get much worse before it gets better. Washington has been borrowing large sums of money at low interest rates for years. This should have been a wakeup call, setting off alarms across the country. But most politicians, especially President Obama, do not seem overly concerned. The Federal Reserve artificially held interest rates low for seven years due to weak economic growth, market volatility, and stagnant wages—until last December when interest rates, for the first time in seven years, were raised just a quarter of a point. While this rate hike sounds minimal, it amounted to $50 billion of new interest every single year. Folks, that is only a quarter of a point. Imagine what happens if interest rates climb even higher—and they will. In a recent speech, Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen said, ‘Given the risks to the outlook, I consider it appropriate for the committee to proceed cautiously in adjusting policy.’ Additionally, Atlanta Federal Reserve Chairman Dennis Lockhart has said while he does not expect four interest rate increases this year, he does think, ‘there is scope for three rate hikes’ in 2016. If they occur, these interest rate increases will increase our interest payments significantly. This will either reduce the amount of money we have to spend on discretionary items—like the military, education, infrastructure projects, and foreign aid – or it will increase our growing federal debt. As you can see from this chart, interest rates historically have fluctuated quite a bit over the last 50 years. We saw interest rates climb in the late 1970s to the high teens. As a matter of fact, in 1981 interest rates nearly hit 20 percent. Now imagine, if interest rates return to their 50-year average of just over 5 percent, we would be paying almost $1 trillion dollars of interest on the current federal debt. That’s more than twice of what our country now spends on national defense. This is just unmanageable. Congress must deal with this crisis right now. As a matter of fact, Congressional Budget Office projections include a dramatic increase in interest rates over just the next few years. Equally as concerning, the Congressional Budget Office has projected the national debt will grow to $30 trillion over the next 10 years unless something is done right now. One thing’s for certain, if Congress keeps spending and interest rates continue to go up, as expected, a lot less of our government’s budget will go toward Americans’ priorities and the national defense—and our debt will rise at an even more rapid rate. Because of the size of the debt, the interest we pay on the debt is critical. We’ve been fortunate over the past few years to have artificially low interest rates. As rates rise, interest expense will go up dramatically and put pressure on other spending priorities. In this video series we are highlighting the two crises, how they’re interconnected, and what must be done to dig our way out of this crisis. We simply have to change the budget process, eliminate redundant agencies, grow the economy, save Social Security and Medicare, and reduce our health care costs. The longer we wait, the more difficult it will be to change trajectory of our growing national debt, which threatens our ability to defend our country and our very way of life. Just as we cannot afford all of the things we are doing financially, we simply cannot afford to wait any longer to solve this problem.”
05.02.2016	05.02.16 Senator David Perdue: America Needs To Lead Again WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, today on Bloomberg TV highlighted our country’s two-pronged crisis—our skyrocketing federal debt and growing global security crisis. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Taking A Business Approach To Washington: “What’s different is that in business, you get a return on the investment or you don't make it. You use equity and debt to fund those investments. We don't have a capital budget in the federal government. We don't look at investments that way. We look at it as a cash flow decision entirely. That is one of the reasons why we have this debt crisis right now. We haven’t been looking at it that way.” Putting Debt Crisis Into Perspective: “I think we are in a debt crisis. The quarter point increase that the Fed just did at the fund rate is about $50 billion of new interest for the federal government. If interest rates went back to their 30-year average, we’d be paying about a trillion dollars in interest alone. That can’t happen, so I’m talking about a perspective of this debt crisis and how it fits with the global security crisis. It really does undermine our ability to fulfill our mission to protect the national defense.” Facing A Two-Pronged Crisis: “I think the world is more dangerous now on several levels than at any time in my lifetime. You have the rise in Russian aggression. You have China’s aggressiveness. You have ISIS. And not only that, we have something we haven’t seen before, and that’s the threat of nuclear proliferation among rogue nations. If you look at the cyber warfare—the hybrid warfare that’s being conducted right now in Eastern Europe and also the arms race in space that we are not talking about—I think it’s a very dangerous time. And, underpinning that is our ability to fund the national defense. That’s why I’m talking about this as a two-pronged crisis.” Realizing America Needs To Lead Again: “There are two things I get from all heads of state around the world. One is—and this is singularly universal—America needs to lead again. The second thing is that we are telling Greece and others how they need to get their house in order financially and a lot of people are telling us, look you own about a third of global government debt right now—the United States—at $20 trillion. That's a lot. A lot of people around the world are really concerned that we’re not going to be able to live up to our commitments. In fact, we have created a world where allies don't trust us and our enemies don't fear us because of that very issue.” Focusing On National Priorities: “We're trying to find a way to get to the priorities. That’s why I ran for the United States Senate. I had never done this before, but I feel like this crisis has reached a level where the people back home understand there’s a real problem. They want us to focus on the priorities.”
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Senator David Perdue Applauds Senate Passage of Long Overdue State Department Authorization Bills WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, applauded Senate passage of the bipartisan U.S. Department of State Authorization Act of 2016 and the committee’s passage of the State Department authorization bill for fiscal year 2017: “This bipartisan authorization is long overdue but it is encouraging amidst all of the dysfunction in Washington. We were able to come together and reassert Congressional oversight of the State Department. As Chairman of the Foreign Relations subcommittee with direct oversight of the State Department, I worked hard to make sure our committee’s concerns were addressed in both of these authorizations. We have made improvements to streamline the State Department’s management operations and prioritized security upgrades to protect Americans serving abroad.” The U.S. State Authorization Act of 2016, which the U.S. Senate passed unanimously for the first time in 14 years, included four amendments introduced by Senator Perdue: 1) Improving Department of State Oversight Act, to allow the Office of the Inspector General to conduct more secure and more effective oversight; 2) Requiring the Secretary of State to produce a comprehensive strategy for the Middle East following the nuclear deal with Iran; 3) Condemning anti-Israel and anti-Semitic incitement in the Palestinian Authority; and 4) Requiring the Secretary of State to produce all documents and analysis concerning the Foreign Affairs Security Training Center. To continue these oversight efforts, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee yesterday passed the State Department authorization bill for fiscal year 2017. This legislation included two of Senator Perdue’s provisions. The first provision improves Congressional oversight of embassy construction and security upgrade projects, and the second requires a report on workforce issues and challenges facing families who serve together in the Foreign Service.
04.29.2016	
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Revised Criminal Leniency Bill “The idea that we are only allowing low-level criminals out of jail is a smoke screen.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today released the following statement regarding the revised version of the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, legislation that would still let dangerous felons, like Wendell Callahan, out of prison early: “Responsible changes to the federal criminal justice system should not allow dangerous felons, many of whom have multiple prior convictions for violent crimes, out of prison early. Under the revised Senate bill announced today, violent criminals like Wendell Callahan, who brutally murdered his ex-girlfriend and her two young daughters, would still be eligible for early release. Ironically, the hundreds of truly low-level drug offenders currently serving time in federal custody would not qualify for leniency under the revised bill because their offenses aren’t serious enough. Instead, the bill still allows for the release of serious traffickers, even if they have previously committed violent felonies, like Callahan. “Keep in mind that these offenders will join the more than 46,000 drug traffickers already slated for early release by the U.S. Sentencing Commission – 23% of the total federal prison population. The result will be tens of thousands of serious drug traffickers back on the streets. I am also troubled by new language added to the bill that some media reports are calling the ‘Scarface’ provision, which cuts sentences for international traffickers who smuggle large quantities of drugs into our nation by boat or submarine. “Proponents of this criminal leniency bill have waged a disinformation campaign because they simply want to reduce the number of people in federal prison. The idea that we are only allowing low-level criminals out of jail is a smoke screen. The bill’s definition of what constitutes a ‘serious violent felony’ creates a loophole that would allow these serious felons to slip through the system. As currently written, this bill would put thousands of dangerous felons back on the streets early, potentially endangering our families and communities, and therefore I still cannot support it.” Senator Perdue supports responsible criminal justice reform and has been working to improve this bill since it was first debated in the Senate Judiciary Committee last October. Unfortunately, Senator Perdue’s amendments, which would have protected victims and communities, were not adopted, and the current bill is still dangerous for America.
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Senator David Perdue: Our Debt Crisis Is Directly Impacting Our Ability To Protect Our Nation “Our debt crisis, and a failed foreign policy, has served to confuse our allies and embolden our enemies. It threatens our ability to defend our country, period.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, today highlighted the impact the federal debt crisis is having on our country’s ability to support our military and protect our nation. Transcript: “The primary role of Congress is to responsibly fund the federal government. To do that, we must set clear national priorities that we can financially support. All too often, the process of setting – and then sticking to these national priorities – has become a purely political exercise, not a function of governing. It’s the number one complaint when I travel back to my home state of Georgia. Coming from the business world, I clearly see two interlocking crises we face as a country. First we have a global security crisis—the world may be more dangerous right now than at any point in my lifetime—interlocked with that is our national debt crisis, which threatens our ability to defending our country today. As we begin the appropriations process, let’s take an honest look at what we’re appropriating for. One of our top national priorities is to provide for the national defense. It’s one of only six reasons why 13 colonies got together in the first place and that is to provide for the national defense. However, under President Carter, Clinton, and Obama we’ve seen three different periods of investment in our military. Our 30-year average of defense spending has been 4.1 percent of GDP. Following the Carter Administration, this is the first line over here to the left. The first dip, after that in the Reagan Administration, they recapped the military. This __had another decline. Then, we had another decline. You see the buildup in the surge in Afghanistan and Iraq behind the two wars. We’ve been at war for 15 yers. I believe in many cases we burn out our equipment and in cases we’re beginning to do that with our personnel, with longer tours and more difficult assignments in this hybrid war that we’re facing today. and then you see under this Administration, a further decline now to 3.1 percent. This is the lowest point since the Vietnam War, and the irony of that is we’re still spending $600 billion of a $4 trillion total spending of the federal government on our military. The iron is the 30-year average of 4.2 percent we’re a hundred basis points below that which equates to with a 19 or $20 trillion economy. That’s $200 billion almost. The question is, is how do we determine the priorities to keep a strong military, to make sure we can fulfill one of the six reasons why we came together as a country. We’re about to have the smallest Army since WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI, and the smallest and oldest Air Force ever. How can this be? The world is more dangerous right now than at any point in my lifetime. We see increased aggression from traditional rivals, Russia and China. We also see the rise of ISIS partly because of our own intransigents and they’ve got to be stopped now or we’ll have to deal with them later here. Boko Haram, al Qaeda, ISIS, all of these threats are beginning to be interconnected and pose threats, not just in the Middle East, but around the world. Finally, we have nuclear threats from rogue regimes like North Korea and Iran, and game-changing technologies such as cyber threats, which nations like Russia are using for hybrid warfare right now in Eastern Europe. There’s an emerging arms race in space that we just don’t talk about publically. This is why our women and men in uniform need to have the tools and resources to complete their missions around the world. This fiscal crisis is jeopardizing our ability to actually fund the missions being asked of our military today. Let me give two examples. JSTARS is a fleet of planes, 16 in number. These planes in total are over a million hours of service. They were used when the air force bought them some 30 years ago. They were flown as commercial airlines—like Air India and Pakistan Air—around the world. Today, they fly missions of oversight. The problems is they have outlived their useful life and they’re being replaced—or the theory was they were going to be replaced but because of our intransigents in Washington, the funding is not there to replace them so we’re now facing annual eight-year potential where we will not be able to fulfill their mission. These are the planes that provide oversight for our men and women who are in harm’s way—in Afghanistan, Iraq, Southern Command, where we’re intercepting drugs, in the far east. Wherever men and women in American uniform face dangers, JSTARS is there protecting them in ways that no one else can in the military. All of these planes have got to be replaced and the sooner we get started the better. They’re not able to fulfill their mission over the next eight years. This chart shows the declining availability of the current fleet, down to zero by 2023. It also shows that under the current plan, pending DOD approval and funding, the replacement fleet doesn’t even start to come online until 2023—a start date that is now in jeopardy because of the current Administration’s budget request. JSTARS recap is the number four acquisition priority for the Air Force—behind the long-range bomber, the new tanker, the F-35, and now JSTARS replacement. We are not going to be able to fulfill the mission of these airmen and soldiers over the next eight years unless we do something about it right now. Even then, it might be too late. This is a picture of a 57 Chevy—1957 Chevrolet. Most of you in this group, some of you will remember what this was like. I remember this car, which is a collector’s item. Some of my friends own this car. This car is of the same genre, the same age as the airplanes that we’re now flying around the world. That’s great, but imagine if this was your everyday car and you depended on it to get you to work every morning and at home at night. What would you do if you had to drive it to the West Coast and back every week? Imagine what the maintenance time loss would be to break down. Imagine what it would be like traveling those distances without all the modern conveniences like satellite radio, Sirius, Pandora, What about the safety factor? These are antiques and the point is this is a direct analogy of what we’re doing with our military today in a very dangerous world. That sounds ridiculous but you know, we also have another example and that is our Marines around the world, who are the first to hit a crisis. In Moron, Spain, we have a contingent of Marines and their mission is to protect our embassies in Africa. Post-Benghazi that takes on a new level of importance. These Marines do a great job. They’re the very best of what we have in America. They’re ready to go. The problem is because of budget constraints, we’re having to cut their fleet of airplanes, the V-22 Ospreys, in half and that fundamentally cuts their mission in half. They’re not going to be able to fulfill the mission they have today the way that they’re supposed to because of our own intransigents. So, what’s causing this great disinvestment in our military? Well, there’s only one answer. The national debt. These two crises interlock in a way they never had before. It used to be defense hawks and budget hawks were separate people. Today, I’m living proof that they can embody themselves in the same person because I’m both. We have to be. We no longer have the luxury of debating both issues separately. In the past seven years, Washington has spent $27 trillion running the federal government. That’s bad enough but the problem is we borrowed $9 trillion of that $25 trillion. That’s 35 percent. The CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, says over the next 10 years we’ll borrow 30 percent of that. What that means, and why that’s important, is that fundamentally all of our mandatory spending, some $3 trillion, is mandatory. So our first dollars go to that. The problem with that is all of our discretionary spending—all of USAID, our foreign programs, and our expenditures—are fundamentally borrowed under that scenario and that’s where we are today. Can you imagine that? With this level of borrowing, every dime we spend on foreign aid, and I want to reiterate---foreign aid, domestic programs, and military—we’re borrowing because we haven’t faced up to this crisis. First you have the period here under President Bush. In 2000, our debt was $6 trillion. We added $4 trillion on the back of two wars. In 2008, we had $10 trillion of debt. Now we see we have another $9 trillion in the last seven years. We’ll be close to $20 trillion by the time we’re through. In the yellow here is what the Congressional Budget Office says we’re about to face. If we do nothing from today, we’ll add another $9 trillion to this federal debt, close to $30 trillion. I’m a business guy and I know the capital markets are under great stress today. The danger of this is this is just totally unmanageable. If interest rates were to reach their 50-year average of just 5.5 percent, we’d be paying a $1 trillion in interest on a $4 trillion total budget. There’s no way that’s possible. Our debt crisis is directly impacting our ability to protect our nation and project power around the world. This puts in jeopardy our very ability to deal with these global threats as they come up every day—and believe me, they’re coming up every day. Without a strong economy – without dealing with our debt crisis right now – we can’t adequately fund our military to confront the growing threats we face. Our debt crisis is directly impacting our ability to protect our nation and project power. This puts in jeopardy our very ability to deal with these global threats as they come up every day, and believe me, they’re coming up every day. Without a strong economy – without dealing with our debt crisis right now – we can’t adequately fund our military. That’s a fact. You know, it used to be that fiscal hawks and defense hawks, and I’ve said this, but today I see more people who are on one or the other are beginning to come together and recognize the other problem. They’re interrelated in a way they’ve never been. Believe me, we need a strong defense. I believe we need to be responsible for our federal finances and the needs of our people here at home. The safety net needs to be maintained. Social Security needs to be saved. These are things we can’t ignore, but we’ve got to start dealing with our priorities today. That’s why we have to find a way to come together, Democrats, Republicans, Conservatives, whatever, and make sure we protect our economic and national security priorities. We need to get in a room and iron this out. They’re not that complicated. We can find the solutions. Former Admiral Mike Mullen said in 2011, ‘I believe that our debt is the greatest threat to our national security. If we as a country do not address our fiscal imbalances in the near-term, our national power will erode.’ That was five years ago. What have we done since then? Nothing but add debt. Last year, Congress passed a budget resolution. We laid out a conservative vision for what spending levels should undertake and cut $7 trillion from the President’s budget. We passed a budget, but passed a budget because our budget process is broken, we didn’t pass authorizations. We passed a budget, but because our budget process is broken, we did not pass most authorizations. We passed appropriations in committees, but we weren’t able to get them to the floor and vote on them, so we ended up with a Continuing Resolution at the end of the year and that led to a Grand Bargain, which I opposed, and an omnibus that added some $9 trillion to our national debt. was used to fund the government, in the absence of any appropriations bills having been approved. That pushed us to a first quarter omnibus, that really most of us wanted to avoid. And then at the end of that, eight people got in a room and decided how we were going to spend $4 trillion. That’s not what our Founders had in mind. That means, the top line spending levels were set by the so-called grand bargain, which I voted against, because it increased spending and would add $9.5 trillion over the next decade to the national debt. This mounting debt crisis will not fix itself. Quite the contrary, it will only grow worse because Social Security, Medicare are going to demand more and more funds from the General Operating fund because of the imbalances in those two items. If we don’t get serious about solving our debt crisis right now, we will not be able to fully support our national security or domestic priorities. Recently, Richard Haass, a former top State Department official, said in a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, ‘Our inability to deal with our debt challenge will detract from the appeal of the American political and economic model.’ He continued, ‘The result would be a world that is less democratic and increasingly less deferential to U.S. concerns in matters of security.’ We must create constraint and fiscal sanity in Washington. In the private sector, you fix a business by first drilling down and finding the underlying problem. The way that Washington funds the federal government –the time it takes to complete the federal budget, the fact that the current process allows Members of Congress to put off making tough decisions—is the real problem. In business, this would never be allowed. In your personal homes, this cannot be tolerated. But somehow we’re able to do it here, year after year. This process has only worked four times in the past 42 years. It has been encouraging to hear Budget Chairman Mike Enzi and House Budget Chairman Tom Price from my home state of Georgia, make this a priority for this year and I believe they’re making great progress. They are having hearings to find out if there are models around the world that do it better than do, and we’re finding those examples. Especially at a time when we cannot allow the process to breakdown and result in more continuing resolutions, omnibus bills, or short-term funding fights that don’t solve anything. We must reduce redundant programs, focus on growing our economy by unlocking finally our nation’s full economic and energy potential. Finally, we must save Social Security and Medicare, and tackle the biggest drivers of our overall health care costs. To do this, Washington needs to stop pretending that these crises will go away on their own, and the national debt will somehow solve itself. It won’t. In fact, it has already done irreversible damage to our credibility and capability on the world stage. Our mounting debt crisis is already raising questions from our allies around the world about how we will be able to stand by our international commitments. I just got back from a trip to Europe and the Middle East. The number one question I had asked of us by leaders, heads of state in those countries was, America needs to lead again. To lead again, we’ve got to get our financial house in order. Our debt crisis, and a failed foreign policy, has served to confuse our allies and embolden our enemies. It threatens our ability to defend our country, period. Also, the interest payments on our debt is affecting our education, infrastructure, and more here at home in programs that are necessary. Imagine if we didn’t have that unproductive responsibility of unnecessary interest. Every member of this body knows that we need to act now. Every member of this body knows that we need to act now. My question is, well, why aren’t we acting? The challenge is to stop talking about it theoretically and start putting the solutions into practice. That’s why Georgians sent me to the U.S. Senate, and that’s what I will continue fighting on this every day. Let’s not lose sight of Congress’ number one responsibility. We are charged in the Constitution – under Article I – to responsibly fund the federal government, and to ensure that the six reasons why 13 colonies came together in the first place, can actually be realized.”
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Senator David Perdue Outlines Spending Cuts To Appropriations Bill Proposal lowers overall spending, bringing bill back in line with last year’s funding level WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, offered an amendment to cut increases in spending in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. Senator Perdue opposed Washington’s grand bargain negotiated by Congressional Leaders last fall that increased government spending, and he will continue to outline sensible cuts to lower government spending throughout the overall appropriations process. Senator Perdue’s amendment achieves roughly $355 million in savings by reducing the overall cost of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, bringing it back in line with last year’s funding level. The savings are achieved by cutting proportionally from Department of Interior, non-defense Department of Energy, and the Independent Agency accounts. “Last year, we worked hard to draft a responsible budget, cut $7 trillion in spending from President Obama’s original budget request, and started to tackle our country’s debt crisis,” said Senator Perdue. “Unfortunately, Washington’s grand bargain, which I strongly opposed, quickly abandoned those efforts and reverted back to spending as usual. Businesses and families have to prioritize spending and make responsible budget decisions in order to stay under their budgets. It is not easy, but it is doable. This amendment cuts approximately $355 million by trimming programs and reversing budget increases. With $19 trillion in debt, we have to prioritize all of our spending. Like many things, we cannot afford nearly $355 million in new spending. We simply cannot afford it.” Senator Perdue has made it a priority to tackle the debt crisis facing our country and to fix Washington’s broken budget process. Senator Perdue is a co-sponsor of a Balanced Budget Amendment and has outlined guiding budget principles Washington should adopt in order to get spending under control.
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Georgia Delegation Highlights Importance of Robins Air Force Base Hosts first annual Robins Air Force Base Congressional breakfast to promote military, economic value of base WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), along with U.S. Representatives Austin Scott (R-GA-08) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), today reaffirmed their commitment to serving Robins Air Force Base at the first annual Robins Air Force Base Congressional breakfast. The Georgia Congressional Delegation members were joined at the Washington, D.C., event by leaders of Robins Air Force Base and the surrounding communities to discuss both the military and economic value of Robins Air Force Base to Georgia and our national defense. Keynote remarks were delivered by former U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss. “Robins Air Force Base is what every community would like to have. It’s something we’ve got to make sure we protect,” said Senator Isakson at the breakfast. “You’ve got a $1.3 billion dollar payroll, 21,000 employees and $2.75 billion dollars in economic impact. There are a lot of reasons to brag about Robins Air Force Base but none more important than to realize this is one of the crown jewels in our state. I’m committed to Robins Air Force Base and Middle Georgia.” “We are fortunate to have some of our nation’s best and brightest headquartered in Georgia at Robins Air Force Base," said Senator Perdue. “For decades, Robins has been a critical part of the Middle Georgia community and our state’s military family. As a member of the Budget Committee and a Warner Robins native, I am committed to making sure Robins and our Georgia military bases have what they need to compete. Washington’s lack of fiscal constraint has led to $19 trillion in debt and this has directly impacted our ability to adequately fund our military and support their missions. Our military leaders should have the resources they need to successfully combat global threats, and I continue to fight to advance their needs.” “Robins Air Force Base is an essential component to our national defense and the economic engine of middle Georgia,” said Congressman Austin Scott, member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Strong support from the community is essential to the longevity of Robins. As the House Armed Services Committee marks up the National Defense Authorization Act today, it is an honor to meet with these committed leaders of the greater Robins AFB community in Washington to discuss how we can work together towards promoting and protecting this base.” “A critical facet of our nation’s defense structure and a valuable economic partner within Middle Georgia, Robins Air Force base is irreplaceable in many ways" said Congressman Sanford Bishop. "The tenant units of Robins Air Force Base lend real value to the Air Force's missions at home and abroad and are well placed and well suited for adaptable economic growth—a critical point highlighted today by leaders within the Robins AFB community." More than 50 participants were in attendance at the breakfast, including Colonel Jeff King, Installation and 78th Air Base Wing commander at Robins Air Force Base, Lieutenant General Lee Levy, Air Force Sustainment Center Commander at Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City, Okla., Brigadier General Joseph Jarrard, Georgia Department of Defense Adjutant General, Warner Robins Mayor Randy Toms, Centerville Mayor John Harley, as well as representatives from Robins Regional Chamber, the Houston County Commission and 21st Century Partnership. A full list of attendees is available here. Today’s meeting follows a series of Georgia- and D.C.-based meetings with the Georgia Congressional Delegation and senior Pentagon officials from each of the branches of the armed services to discuss the importance of Georgia-based equities and assets and the critical roles each play in our national defense. Home to the Air Force Reserve Command, the 78th Air Base Wing and the fleet of Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS), Robins Air Force Base plays a vital role in our national defense, providing support to all branches of the military throughout the world. Through its leadership in defense technology research and development at the Warner Robins Air Logistics Center, Robins Air Force Base serves as a critical backbone to the entire Department of Defense. In addition, Robins Air Force Base employs over 21,000 and contributes over $2.75 billion to the Georgia economy annually. Robins Air Force Base and its community partners have focused on education in Middle Georgia to help shape Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) development throughout Georgia and the country. In December 2015, Senators Isakson and Perdue wrote to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter requesting that funding for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) be protected in the fiscal year 2017 defense budget request.
04.26.2016	04.26.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Strengthened Security Assistance To Israel Join letter to President Obama supporting enhanced, long-term security agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, are urging the Obama Administration to support a long-term agreement with Israel to ensure our strongest ally in the Middle East has the resources necessary to defend itself. In a letter sent to President Obama, Senators Isakson and Perdue emphasized the need to extend the current agreement between the United States and Israel, called a “Memorandum of Understanding,” that expires in 2018. The senators pointed to “Israel’s dramatically rising defense challenges” as the most pressing reason why time is of the essence. The bipartisan letter, which was led by U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and signed by a total of 83 senators, reads “We stand ready to support a substantially enhanced new long-term agreement to help provide Israel the resources it requires to defend itself and preserve its qualitative military edge.” The letter points to the ever-present threats to Israel posed by Iran, the disorder in Syria and radical Islamic terrorist groups including Hezbollah, al-Qaeda, the Islamic State and the Levant, known as ISIL, and other militant Islamist groups. “In addition to these immediate threats… given the extraordinary levels of weapons pouring into the Middle East, Israel could quickly find itself on the wrong end of the regional military balance,” the senators continued in their letter. “This problem is compounded by the mounting cost of the new aircraft and other weapons systems that Israel must acquire to keep pace with its neighbors. Moreover, Israel must prepare for the likelihood that Iran will resume its quest for nuclear weapons.” The full text of the letter sent on April 21, 2016, is available here.
04.22.2016	04.22.16 Senator David Perdue Hosts Purple Heart Ceremony To Honor WWII Veteran “Frank Snyder was a patriot and an American hero who selflessly risked his life to defend the world against evil.” ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today hosted a Purple Heart Ceremony honoring World War II veteran Franklyn Lewis Snyder, who was posthumously awarded a long-overdue Purple Heart for wounds he received during his military service. Senator Perdue presents Bob Snyder, Linda Simpson, and Don Simpson with Mr. Snyder’s Purple Heart decoration, Purple Heart certificate, and an American flag flown in his honor above the U.S. Capitol. View more pictures here. Mr. Snyder, a navigator for the Army Air Corps, served in England during World War II. On March 8, 1944, he sustained a wound to his leg and a blow to his head when his B-17 was shot down over Germany. Lieutenant Snyder was then held as a prisoner of war in Barth, Germany, until the Russians liberated the prisoners on May 13, 1945. Mr. Snyder was honorably discharged as a First Lieutenant on December 13, 1945. For his service, Mr. Snyder was awarded the Purple Heart. Unfortunately, he did not receive this award before he passed away. Mr. Snyder’s children contacted Senator Perdue’s office for assistance, and Senator Perdue’s office worked with the Army to get Mr. Snyder his long-overdue decoration. “Frank Snyder was a patriot and an American hero who selflessly risked his life to defend the world against evil. As war has evolved over the years, sacrifice is still a notion that resonates today with all our veterans—old and young,” said Senator Perdue. “Our troops have made it their mission to protect our freedom and it is our duty to always honor their service. Thank God for our military and our military families, and thank God for Frank Snyder and his family.” The award was presented to Mr. Snyder’s family by Brigadier General Jesse T. Simmons, Jr. Assistant Adjutant General, Georgia Air National Guard.
04.22.2016	04.22.16 Senator David Perdue Announces May Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of May. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s May mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Northwest Georgia RegionFriday, May 610:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Cherokee County School District111 Academy StreetCanton, GA 30114 West Central Georgia RegionMonday, May 910:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.Upson Regional Medical CenterConference Room801 West Gordon StreetThomaston, GA 30286 Southwest Georgia RegionMonday, May 910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.UGA Tifton Conference Center Room 4/515 RDC RoadTifton, GA 31794 Northeast Georgia RegionTuesday, May 1710:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.Rabun County Public Library73 Jo Dotson CircleClayton, GA 30525 Metro Atlanta RegionTuesday, May 2410:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Clayton County Board of Commissioners112 Smith StreetJonesboro, GA 30236 Central Georgia RegionTuesday, May 2410:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Milledgeville-Baldwin County Chamber130 South Jefferson StreetMilledgeville, GA 31061
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight To Make Port of Savannah Top Priority For Army Corps WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today offered an amendment to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funding legislation that will ensure critical water infrastructure projects, like the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, remain a top priority. The Port of Savannah is the fastest-growing port in the country and a top economic development project for Georgia. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was originally authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. However, the necessary dredging has been delayed for nearly two decades due to bureaucratic logjams. “The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is critical to Georgia, the Southeast and the entire country,” said Senator Isakson. “I have been fighting for the necessary funding to keep this project on track to ensure we are not wasting tax dollars and are able to open up this critical waterway to larger vessels. Ensuring the on-time completion of this project is a win for trade, a win for the economy and a win for the hundreds of thousands of jobs the Port of Savannah supports.” "For too long, infrastructure projects that are a critical component of our country’s commerce have fallen victim to bureaucratic red tape,” said Senator Perdue. “A perfect example is the Port of Savannah deepening project, which took the federal government 17 years to approve. Today, the Port of Savannah is the fastest-growing port in the country and its economic impact reaches around the world. Clearly, maintaining the Port of Savannah and completing this infrastructure project should be a top priority for the Army Corps of Engineers.” Background: The U.S. Constitution gives the federal government authority over navigable waters; therefore, the government has a role in funding the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, which was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken to accommodate the larger vessels carrying goods through the expansion of the Panama Canal. The total cost of the Savannah Harbor project is $706 million, and the federal government’s share of that cost is $440 million. Georgia has already contributed its $266 million share of the project’s cost. If the federal government does not contribute its portion, $100 million a year for fiscal years 2017-2020, the project cannot be completed by 2020. Delays in the project could ultimately cost taxpayers an extra $200 million. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States and will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. Recognizing the economic impact the port has on Georgia’s economy and the Southeast region of the country, Senators Isakson and Perdue have consistently supported the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project.
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Senators Urge State Department To Confront Those Seeking To Disrupt Haiti’s Democratic Process “Our experience with Haiti leads us to believe the postponement had less to do with the electoral process than it did with the losing candidates manufacturing a crisis” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are urging Secretary of State John Kerry to use every tool at his disposal to ensure Haiti completes its presidential elections process and punish those who disrupt the elections for their own interests. On Friday, Haiti’s second round of presidential elections was postponed yet again, leaving Haiti without a clear path forward for a duly elected president or complete federal government to be put in place. “Our experience with Haiti leads us to believe that the postponement had less to do with the electoral process than it did with the losing candidates manufacturing a crisis in order to achieve a ‘do-over’ with the hope of a different result,” wrote the Senators in a letter to Secretary Kerry. “This would set a terrible precedent for Haiti if allowed to succeed.” “We urge the Department of State to use every tool at its disposal to ensure that Haitian authorities conduct elections by the agreed upon deadline,” said the Senators. “This would require working closely with Interim President Privert and the new CEP to keep the election schedule on track and to avoid any pretexts for another postponement. We also ask the Department to identify and punish the ‘spoilers’ who routinely undermine and disrupt the electoral process for their own interests.” Due to alleged threats of violence, the Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) postponed the second round of elections originally scheduled for January 24th; however, these claims have been refuted by independent observers and the Organization of Americans States. Since February 7, 2016, Haiti has been governed by interim President Jocelerme Privert who was tasked with completing the second round of elections by April 24, 2016. On Friday, the CEP announced its decision to delay the second round of elections again. Further, the letter requests that Secretary Kerry provide to Congress the State Department’s strategy for achieving successful elections in Haiti in the weeks ahead. The United States has already invested more than $30 million and much diplomatic effort in the Haitian presidential election, and the elections as a whole cost approximately $80 million. View the full letter here.
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Senator David Perdue Joins Senators To Stop Obama’s New Retirement Regulation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) has joined U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and 31 senators in an effort to stop the Obama Administration from implementing its new retirement regulation which will limit Americans’ access to retirement investment advice. “President Obama’s newest regulation will reduce retirement savings options for families trying to save for their future. For years, Americans have been underemployed and wages have been stagnant. We should be focused on saving the Social Security trust funds, which together are expected to be depleted in 2029, and promoting greater choice and more retirements options for people. Georgians are very concerned about the government’s long-term ability to continue to make full Social Security benefits payments, and they don’t need President Obama limiting their personal ability to save for retirement too.” Under current law, the CBO projects Social Security’s trust funds, considered together, will be exhausted in just 13 years, and nearly 70 percent of Social Security recipients are retirees and their families. Recognizing the impact this will have on Georgians and Americans, Senator Perdue has co-sponsored legislation that would require Congressional approval before any investment and retirement savings rules issued by the Obama Administration go into effect, including: the Affordable Retirement Advice Protection Act, introduced by Senator Isakson (R-GA), and the Strengthening Access to Valuable Education and Retirement Support (SAVERS) Act, introduced by Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL).
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Aviation Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the Senate reauthorized Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) programs through Fiscal Year 2017: “Over the years, we have seen great advances in aviation and we must consistently examine government guidelines to ensure they allow for competition and encourage innovation. As a business guy, I think these policy changes should have been extended for a more substantial amount of time to provide the industry with more certainty. Ultimately though, responsible and timely action is needed. These updated policies will facilitate aviation in the United States and encourage continued focus on protecting all travelers. While this bill does not provide state and local governments the ability to set drone guidelines for their airspace, I will continue to work to meet the needs of our communities in future legislation.” Senator Perdue previously introduced two amendments to improve the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill: Amendment No. 3704 that would have ensured states and local governments are able to draft their own drone laws specific to their states and communities, and Amendment No. 3784 that would have extended the length of the bill for one additional year through FY 2018. Neither amendment was adopted into the final bill.
04.15.2016	04.15.16 Senator David Perdue: It Is Time For A Fairer & Simpler Tax Code ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), an advocate for a new, streamlined tax structure that is fairer for all Americans, released the following statement in advance of the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Tax Day: "Many Americans dread Tax Day because it reminds us how much money Washington takes from our hard-earned paychecks. Every year, Georgians are forced to deal with the government’s archaic tax code that is unfair and overly complex. It is time to finally overhaul our tax code by lowering overall tax rates for both individuals and corporations. We also need to close the innumerable special interest loopholes and deductions, so we can stop the federal government from picking winners and losers. With lower rates and the elimination of our corporate repatriation tax, we could finally unleash the full power of the American free enterprise system. Ultimately, we should put in place the FairTax to level the playing field for all Americans, protect hardworking Georgians, and phase out the IRS.” In his first days in office, Senator Perdue introduced legislation to overhaul and simplify the American tax system by implementing the FairTax to replace our complicated and costly tax system and eventually abolish the IRS.
04.14.2016	04.14.16 Senator David Perdue Applauds Action To Make Consumer Agency Accountable “Currently, this rogue agency has access to an alarming amount of confidential consumer financial information.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the advancement of legislation to make the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) more accountable to the American people: “The CFPB is a product of big, misguided government and the American people deserve a closer look at its activities,” said Senator Perdue. “Currently, this rogue agency has access to an alarming amount of confidential consumer financial information, including: mortgage, car, and student loan data, as well as debit and credit card transactions. Even more concerning, it is unclear exactly what the agency is doing with this personal data because of the lack of oversight. Georgians and the American people expect their representatives in Congress to hold the federal government accountable and monitor the federal agencies that monitor us, like the CFPB. I applaud the House for taking action to hold the CFPB accountable, and I hope the Senate considers similar legislation that I’ve been working on soon.” The U.S. House of Representatives Financial Services Committee yesterday passed the Taking Account of Bureaucrats’ Spending Act, legislation similar to a bill Senator Perdue introduced last year to increase oversight of the CFPB by making it subject to the Congressional appropriations process. Currently, the CFPB operates under the Federal Reserve.
04.14.2016	04.14.16 Senator David Perdue Works To Improve Aviation Bill, Preserve States’ Rights Introduces amendments to increase certainty & preserve local control of drone policies WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) this week worked to extend the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization period one additional year through 2018, and preserve state and local control of drone policies. “People and businesses around the world rely on our country’s aviation infrastructure to travel, conduct business, and transport goods,” said Senator Perdue. “We need common-sense policies in place to ensure the United States continues to be a leader in aviation. During this process, I worked to increase certainty for airlines and industries when making business planning decisions for multi-year periods. Additionally, states and local governments should set drone standards to meet their needs, and we preserved their right to keep these guidelines intact, instead of adopting a one-size-fits-all federal government mandate. Innovation is the foundation of the aviation industry, and these updates will help propel the industry forward.” Senator Perdue introduced two amendments to the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. Amendment No. 3784 would extend the length of the bill for one additional year through FY 2018 so airlines and industries need to have more certainty and stability in federal policy. Amendment No. 3704 ensures that states and local governments are able to draft their own drone laws specific to their states and communities.
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Senator David Perdue Highlights Failures Of President Obama’s Dangerous Iran Deal “The world was given a false promise: that this nuclear deal would serve as a catalyst for change and moderation in Iran.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, addressed the failures of President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran a year after its announcement. Since the Obama Administration finalized this agreement, Iran has launched four ballistic test missiles, violated human rights, and continued to prop up terrorist organizations. Click here to view the speech or on the image below. Transcript: “It was just one year ago, on April 2, that actually marked the framework for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action—the President’s nuclear deal with Iran. We were promised by the Obama Administration, at all levels, that this nuclear agreement would make the world a safer place. I’ve traveled the world quite a bit in the last year. I just got back from another trip to the Middle East. I believe the world possibly is more dangerous, right now, than any time in my lifetime. Unfortunately, the message to make the world a safer place did not resonate with Iran. The world was given a false promise: this nuclear deal would serve as a catalyst for change and moderation in Iran. We’ve seen change, but it’s only been for the worse. Iran is both enriched and emboldened by this dangerous deal. The President’s deal provided Iran with over an estimated $100 billion windfall. Secretary Kerry said just this January that Iran, ‘had massive needs within their country and we – the U.S. – will be able to track where this money is going, what’s happening with it.’ But, instead of focusing these funds inward as we were assured – on improving the lives of their people – Iran has chosen to use this money to bolster its conventional forces and cyber capabilities; to strengthen its proxies; to crack down on its own people; and to further destabilize the region. Iran has test-launched four ballistic missiles since the nuclear deal was announced. Most recently, these missiles were launched with the words ‘death to Israel’ emblazoned on their side. The most recently launched missiles were more advanced—precision guided and more sophisticated. Iran has the largest inventory of ballistic missiles in the Middle East capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction. They continue in developing space launch vehicles as well that are a transparent guise for seeking longer-range missile capability. Iran humiliated, and detained at gunpoint, U.S. Navy sailors in violation of international law. According to American officials, Iran is using cyberespionage and cyberattacks as a tool of influence, with Iranian hackers breaking into email and social media accounts of employees of our very own State Department who work on Iran-related issues. Iran also used American hostages for strategic and economic leverage from this Administration – only turning over innocent Americans when the Administration freed seven Iranian sanctions violators and dismissed charges on 14 other Iranians, including two men who helped transfer soldiers and weapons to the Assad regime and to the terror group, Hezbollah. Iran continues to spend millions to support the Houthi insurgency that is contributing to the security vacuum in Yemen. Just last week, the U.S. Navy confiscated another weapons cache from the Arabian Sea, believed to be en route from Iran to Yemen in support of the Houthis. This shipment included about 1500 Kalashnikov rifles, 200 rocket-propelled grenade launchers, and 21 .50-caliber machine guns. That would be bad enough if it were the only one, but this is the fourth such seizure in the region since just September of last year. The fourth. I think it’s is very clear what the Iranian intentions are with regard to the rebels in Yemen and also to the terrorists of Hezbollah, Hamas, and others in the region. According to the State Department, Iran continues to be the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. In its quest to dominate the Middle East and expel American influence, Iran has exploited terrorism as a tool of statecraft to oppose U.S. interests and objectives in Iraq, Bahrain, Yemen, Lebanon, and the Palestinian territories. Iran continues to spend an estimated $6 billion per year in support of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, and millions in dollars and material to Hezbollah and Hamas. On a recent trip to the Middle East two weeks ago, I heard these concerns from our friends and allies in the region firsthand. Iran’s domestic repression has also gotten worse. The crackdown on dissent is at its worst since the 2009 Green Revolution, according to NGOs. Iran continues to imprison those who disagree with the mullahs, and to imprison those who are at odds with the regime. Executions are at their highest level since 1989. Further, the regime disqualified thousands of reformist candidates in its recently-held parliamentary elections. When you look at the facts, it’s clear that the Middle East – and I would argue, the world – is potentially worse off since the signing of the President’s nuclear deal. And what are we doing about it? I think that’s the question the American people should keep their eyes on. Well, according to Secretary Kerry, ‘Iran deserves the benefits of the agreement that they struck.’ And despite the four ballistic missile launches, the Administration won’t call them a violation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231, this is the resolution that includes the nuclear deal, arms embargo, and ballistic missile prohibitions. Just last week, Ambassador Shannon, the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, told the Foreign Relations Committee that he believes these ballistic missile tests, ‘violated the intent’ of the U.N. Security Council Resolution, but would not call it a violation. I’m troubled by that. Iran’s ever-increasing support for terrorism and instability is going essentially unchecked. This is no way to handle a rogue regime. Instead, we need to take a tougher stance on Iran. Now that we see their intentions post-deal. On ballistic missile violations, we must go beyond the President’s designation of 11 individuals and companies for the ballistic missile launches. The Iranians paid for that technology somehow, yet no financial institution was sanctioned for this transaction. The technology arrived in Iran by boat or plane, yet no shipping line, or airline, or logistics firm was included in the sanctions. We need to codify sectoral sanctions on Iran for ballistic missiles and impose tougher standards for mandatory sanctions – including acquisition or development of ballistic missiles or as activity required sanctions. We need to show Iran we are serious about stopping their continued support of terrorism and human rights violations. We should impose stricter sanctions on the Iran Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) for their support of terrorism. We need to freeze assets owned by the IRGC, its members and its affiliates. We should codify Executive Order 13599, which prohibits Iran’s direct and indirect access to the U.S. financial system. We need to improve new sanctions against Iran as a money-laundering entity for terrorist groups, and for its human rights abuses. We need to reauthorize the Iran Sanctions Act (ISA). This vital legislation, which is one of the most important lynchpins in U.S. sanctions architecture on Iran, is due to expire by the end of this very year. Without the reauthorization of ISA, the threat of ‘snapback’ for Iranian violations of the nuclear deal doesn’t carry much weight. We need to have these sanctions reauthorized, so we can use them swiftly in the event of any future Iranian violation. President Obama has already admitted that Iran has violated the ‘spirit’ of the nuclear agreement. And finally, we must ensure that Israel is able to maintain its Qualitative Military Edge – this is a standard that we’ve held up for many years – and equip our Gulf Allies against increased Iranian aggression from proxies. Iran’s behavior over the past year has proven that they are not worthy of the trust bestowed upon them by this Administration. While the Administration refuses to admit reality, Congress must hold Iran’s feet to the fire to get a stronger U.S. policy towards Iran. We cannot afford to give this rogue regime the benefit of the doubt any longer. Iran refuses to be an honest actor – it’s clear from Iranian actions, just since the nuclear deal was announced, that they have not changed their behavior on missile testing, human rights violations, or support for terrorism. Our policies must change to reflect the dangerous reality. The Obama Administration should work with Congress to strengthen our sanctions, reauthorize the Iran Sanctions Act, and stand up to Iran’s total disregard for international restrictions and the original intent of the nuclear deal. The world is a very dangerous place. Iran needs to see a strong America stand up and lead again in the region. On this recent trip, the question that we asked of these leaders was, ‘what do we need to do to as America?’ The number one answer from these heads of state was universal, ‘America needs to lead again.’”
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Senators Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Reauthorize Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tom Udall (D-NM), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM), today introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) to ensure that our federal law enforcement officials and first responders are adequately trained for national security events, domestic threats, and combating terrorism. “We are fortunate FLETC is headquartered in Georgia," said Senator Perdue. “Each year, FLETC’s facilities deliver a range of training to 96 federal partner organizations and thousands of state, local, and international law enforcement officers. As training needs evolve to combat the growing global security crisis we face today, so do FLETC’s unique capabilities, which is why it remains a top training center for many agencies.” “The work being done at FLETC is critical to our national security,” said Senator Isakson. “The training our law enforcement officers receive each year is first-rate and each skill set is adapted to the situations they will face in the field. The skills needed to protect our ports, airports, borders and communities are indispensable, and I am proud of what FLETC achieves year in and year out.” “The FLETC facility in Artesia, New Mexico, plays a critical role in training Border Patrol agents, Bureau of Indian Affairs police officers, Federal Air Marshals and other law enforcement officers. It's also important to the economy in Southeastern New Mexico, where it's a significant employer,” said Senator Udall. “FLETC needs the resources to adapt to ever-changing security threats, and our bipartisan bill will give it the certainty it needs to continue its mission — keeping Americans safe.” “New Mexico plays an important role in protecting our homeland, and the FLETC facility in Artesia is at the forefront of training our federal law enforcement officers,” said Senator Heinrich. “This bipartisan bill will support our trainees and make essential investments in Artesia, which will help contribute to southeastern New Mexico’s economy. I will continue working to ensure this training center remains fully funded so that staff and trainees can work to meet their homeland security missions.” “The proposed bill will serve FLETC well into the future and recognizes our role in training those who protect our homeland,” said FLETC Director Connie Patrick. Background: Established in the 1970s as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury. FLETC was intended to provide cost-effective basic and advanced training for federal law enforcement officers. With the formation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in 2003, FLETC was formally transferred from the Treasury Department to DHS to serve as the law enforcement training hub for a variety of national and international law enforcement personnel and partner organizations. Since its establishment and the department transfer, FLETC has not been reauthorized by Congress. The FLETC main campus is headquartered in Glynco, GA, and has grown over the years to include facilities in Artesia, NM, Charleston, SC, Cheltenham, MD, and Gabarone, Botswana. Today, FLETC supports 96 agencies, trains more than 70,000 students annually, and employs more than 3,000 Georgians and almost 600 New Mexicans. U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) introduced the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act of 2015 in the U.S. House of Representatives, which passed overwhelmingly in December 2015. View the full text of the Senate legislation here.
04.11.2016	04.11.16 Senator David Perdue Cosponsors Legislation To Punish Iranian Belligerence “We cannot afford to give this rogue regime the benefit of the doubt.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and vocal opponent of President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran, recently introduced legislation to impose new sanctions to punish Iran for its belligerent actions and multiple ballistic missile violations. “Since the signing of President Obama’s nuclear deal, Iran has test-launched four ballistic missiles with the most recent displaying ‘death to Israel’ in Hebrew. Iran has violated international law by arresting U.S. Navy sailors and in an effort to humiliate them, released video of the sailors held at gunpoint. Further, Iran is spending money it received from U.S. sanctions relief in support of Assad in Syria and purchasing millions in dollars of weapons for Hezbollah and Hamas. “When you look at the facts, the world is worse off since President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran. In an attempt to defend this bad deal, Secretary Kerry has said, ‘Iran deserves the benefits of the agreement that they struck.’ We cannot afford to give this rogue regime the benefit of the doubt. Iran refuses to be an honest actor and halt its bad behavior. Our policies must change to reflect reality.” Senator Perdue cosponsored both the Iran Terrorism and Human Rights Sanctions Act of 2016 and the Iran Ballistic Missile Sanctions Act of 2016 to impose new sanctions on Iran for their continued support of terrorism and violation of international obligations relating to ballistic missile activity, as well as to codify the current prohibition against Iran’s direct and indirect access to the U.S. financial system. In January, before President Obama implemented his nuclear deal with Iran, Senator Perdue sent the Obama Administration a letter condemning Iran’s blatant disregard for its international obligations and recommended tangible consequences for Iran’s illicit behavior. Additionally in the letter, Senator Perdue asked the Obama Administration to outline a clear roadmap for how it intends to punish Iran for any potential violations of the deal in the future.
04.07.2016	04.07.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On President Obama’s New Retirement Regulation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Labor’s decision to issue a regulation that limits Americans’ access to retirement investment advice: “Costly and confusing regulations have become an unfortunate legacy of the Obama Administration. One of the newest rules President Obama wants to impose will reduce the retirement savings options and the breadth of products relating to how middle-class Americans save for their future. For years, Americans have been underemployed and wages have been stagnant. Instead of driving investment costs up, the Department of Labor should promote greater choice and more options for people to save money. Georgians are already concerned with the federal government’s ability to plan for our country’s future. They shouldn’t have to worry about President Obama limiting their personal ability to save too.” To stop the Department of Labor’s regulatory overreach, Senator Perdue co-sponsored two bills that would require Congressional approval before any investment and retirement savings rules issued by the Obama Administration go into effect: the Affordable Retirement Advice Protection Act, introduced by Senator Isakson (R-GA), and the Strengthening Access to Valuable Education and Retirement Support (SAVERS) Act, introduced by Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL).
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Latest Terrorist Transfers From Guantanamo “Detainees are being resettled into prisons in Senegal, not far from the spread of ISIS affiliates” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement after the Obama Administration transferred two more terrorists from Guantanamo Bay: “As his term comes to an end, President Obama is attempting to circumvent the law and ignore Congressional intent, once again, in order to fulfill a campaign promise at the expense of our national security. The two Libyan detainees are being resettled into prisons in Senegal, not far from the spread of ISIS affiliates in Libya, Nigeria, and Mali. They should remain where they are—a military prison where they will not risk escape or returning to dangerous behavior. “Last year, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that 196 of the 653 former detainees were ‘confirmed or suspected’ of returning to the fight, and recent estimates show that 122 of these detainees are not in any sort of restrictive custody. Looking at the facts, we should not allow any more detainees the chance to re-engage in terrorism. Closing Guantanamo Bay is irresponsible, and is proven to unacceptably increase risk to our citizens and the security of our friends and allies overseas.”
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Senator David Perdue Probes State Department Over Recent Iranian Missile Launches State Department Official Says Launches Violate ‘Intent’ of U.N. Resolution WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today probed the State Department’s Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Ambassador Thomas Shannon about recent Iranian ballistic missile tests and whether these actions violate U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231, the international resolution that codifies President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran. Senator Perdue’s questions come days after Obama Administration officials failed to call Iran’s ballistic missile tests a violation to U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231. Click here to watch the exchange or click the image below. Transcript: Senator Perdue: In December, Ambassador Mull, in this committee stated ballistic missile launches would directly be a violation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231. We’ve seen those missile firings before and after implementation day, and yet this week American diplomats submitted a joint EU-US report that says that the launches, and I quote ‘are inconsistent with UNSCR 2231, but not a violation.’ Senator Perdue: For the record, do you think that ballistic missile launches were indeed a violation of U.N. [Security Council] Resolution 2231? Under Secretary Shannon: From our point of view, U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231 prohibits Iran from launching ballistic missiles. The language in 2231 is different from [U.N. Security Council Resolution] 1929. As you know, 1929 says Iran shall not undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. 2231 calls upon Iran not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons. In international parlance, there is a distinction here but for me it is a distinction without a difference. Under Secretary Shannon: From my point of view, 2231 is telling Iran that it should not be undertaking any activity related to ballistic missiles, and that’s how we act. In other words, we responded to the ballistic missile launches with designations, and we will continue to respond. Senator Perdue: So we responded as if it were a violation? Under Secretary Shannon: We did. Senator Perdue: Ok. So you think it is a violation? Under Secretary Shannon: Let me put it this way, I believe it violated the intent of 2231. Under Secretary Shannon: Whether our international lawyers will say it violated 2231, this is why we use the word inconsistent. But from our point of view, these launches are prohibited, and we’re going to do everything we can to stop them.
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Continue to Challenge President Obama’s Immigration Overreach Sign amicus brief to Supreme Court in support of Georgia’s challenge to executive amnesty WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) joined a group of 43 Senators in filing an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court supporting the legal challenge against President Obama’s immigration overreach. On April 18, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on the lawsuit filed by Georgia and a majority of states challenging the Obama Administration’s 2014 attempt to unilaterally grant legal status to millions of immigrants. “President Obama’s attempt to circumvent Congress by executive order and grant legal status to millions is unconstitutional and unacceptable,” said Senator Isakson. “I have fought against this unlawful proposal from day one and will continue to use any and all options to stop the President from implementing his unconstitutional executive amnesty. If Congress must use the courts to force the President to follow the laws he has sworn to uphold, then so be it.” “Over the past seven years, we have seen President Obama abuse his authority and act unilaterally to change our country’s immigration laws,” said Senator Perdue. “It is time for this to stop. I applaud Georgia and a majority of states for coming together to stand up against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty. As we have seen, there are real national security risks associated with illegal immigration, sanctuary cities, and executive amnesty, and I promised Georgians I will fight on their behalf against this lawlessness. I will not rest until we secure our border and restore the rule of law to our country.” The U.S. Supreme Court took up this case (United States of America vs. State of Texas) after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in November of 2015 affirmed a previous decision by a federal district court in Brownsville, Texas, to halt the Obama Administration from moving forward with its executive actions on immigration that are in violation of federal law. In addition to Senators Isakson and Perdue, the following Senators joined the amicus brief: U.S. Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Bob Corker (R-TN), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), John Hoeven (R-ND), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), John McCain (R-AZ), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rand Paul (R-KY), James Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), John Thune (R-SD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), David Vitter (R-LA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The amicus brief can be found here. Background: In December 2014, following President Obama’s executive actions on immigration including halting the deportations of millions of illegal immigrants, Georgia and a group of states, led by Texas, filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging his overreach. On February 17, 2015, a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Since then, political appointees at the Justice Department have filed an appeal to lift the injunction. Previously, Isakson and Perdue supported an amicus brief filed in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals on behalf of Georgia and 25 other states, arguing that the President’s unilateral, deferred-action programs for unlawful immigrants are unconstitutional and are contrary to congressional intent. Oral arguments were heard by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals on April 17, 2015.
03.31.2016	03.31.16 Senator David Perdue Announces April Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of April. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s April mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Northeast Georgia RegionTuesday, April 510:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Stephens County Development Authority31 West Doyle StreetToccoa, GA 30577 Northwest Georgia RegionWednesday, April 1310:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.UNG Blue Ridge Campus, Conference Room83 Dunbarton Farm RoadBlue Ridge, GA 30513 Southeast Georgia RegionTuesday, April 2610:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Bulloch County Farm Bureau Insurance366 Northside Drive EastStatesboro, GA 30458 Central Savannah River AreaWednesday, April 2710:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Foster’s Restaurant203 East Broad StreetLouisville, GA 30434
03.30.2016	03.30.16 Senator David Perdue Releases Video: “Guiding Budget Principles” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released a video entitled “Guiding Budget Principles,” where he talks directly to Georgians about Washington’s broken budget process and highlights potential guiding principles Congress should consider going forward. This is the second installment in Senator Perdue’s budget video series on the national debt. View the first video “Four Words Rarely Heard In Washington” here. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “The primary responsibility of Congress is to fund the federal government. In fact, Article 1, Section 8, of the Constitution charges us to do just that. After going through the full budget process for the first time last year, I can tell you it is more broken than expected. Dysfunction and gridlock has enabled the President to overreach his Constitutional powers and led to runaway spending by both parties. Washington has lost sight of the very principles the American people follow in their day-to-day lives to ensure fiscal discipline. The result is what we see today: $19 trillion in debt, $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities, and a budget that is no longer a governing document but simply a political document. This can be changed. In fact, it must be changed right now. We are out of time for idle debate and partisan bickering. The crisis is upon us. As we begin the budget cycle once again, there are a few guiding principles Washington should consider going forward. First, the budget should have the enforcement power of a law, not just a resolution. Fiscal discipline cannot be fully achieved if the approved budget can be ignored or abandoned at any time when financial decisions become too tough or politically motivated. This is what we saw last year. Congressional leaders and President Obama waited until the eleventh hour to fund the government and ended up waiving the Republican budget, which, by the way, cut $7 trillion in spending from the President’s budget. Instead of a budget, they agreed on a short-term fix, an omnibus, instead of a serious solution to our spending problem. Second, the budget should be all encompassing. It should include all spending and all revenue. Most people don’t know that about 70 percent of what the federal government spends is mandatory, and is therefore, not accounted for in the budget process. You and I both know that it is impossible to be responsible for the budgetary decisions if you don’t really know what the full mandatory spending is and if it’s not considered in the budget process. For instance, if you look at the state of Georgia’s budget, they start out with a revenue estimate—a full picture of the budget. But the federal government does not even do that. We must have a realistic accounting of all government spending to fully understand the fiscal catastrophe we are facing and be able to fix it. Third, there should be real consequences for Congress if it does not fund the federal government on time. How simple is that? Previous consequences, like sequestration, only hurt the military and other essential programs, instead of making smart and strategic decisions. Firm deadlines for each phase of the funding process should be enforced without exception. Consequences for not completing any step of the process should impact those who failed to do their job – Congress – not the military or the American people. Ultimately, Congress should redesign its process to accommodate the timely completion of funding the federal government. The current committee structure and timeline needs to be realigned so funds can be allocated appropriately and ensure accountability. Part of this realignment should include changing the fiscal year to the calendar year in order to accommodate the full annual budgeting cycle for each new Congress. As it is, the current budget process has only worked four times in the last 40 years, yet Washington still holds this broken process as sacred. We’ve got to change that. The first step to solving our exploding debt crisis is to fix the budget process right now. We can no longer afford the gridlock—and this should not be a partisan effort. The result is what we’ve seen play out year after year—funding patches, continuing resolutions, and omnibus bills, which have not been effective in controlling spending. It’s time for Washington to be honest with the American people about the realities of our current financial catastrophe. Completing a timely budget that funds our priorities as a country is the primary responsibility of Congress Folks, it’s time to finally come to the realization that until we fix the way Washington funds the federal government, more often than not, we will have to say ‘we cannot afford it.’”
03.23.2016	03.23.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Obamacare Anniversary Now more than ever, people want to make their own health care decisions based on their needs, not government requirements WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the sixth anniversary of Obamacare and the need to fully repeal and replace the flawed law with common-sense health care solutions that would empower patients, not Washington bureaucrats: “It has been six years since Washington took over our health care system – one-sixth of our nation’s economy – and the results have been disastrous for individuals and families across the country. Americans have seen their insurance plans cancelled, have lost access to their preferred doctors, and are paying higher premiums and deductibles. Now more than ever, people want to make their own health care decisions based on their needs, not government requirements. It is time to finally get rid of President Obama’s failed health care law and replace it with a common-sense solution that increases accessibility, transportability, and insurability for all.” In February, Senator Perdue and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) introduced the Empowering Patients First Act, companion legislation to a bill introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Tom Price (R-GA-06), to fully repeal and replace Obamacare with common-sense solutions that put patients back in charge of their health care decisions.
03.22.2016	03.22.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Brussels Terrorist Attacks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement on the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium: “Our prayers go out to the people of Belgium as they deal with terrorist attacks in their nation's capital. Too often, the world has witnessed violence at the hands of radical terrorists, and this ruthless enemy must be stopped. Our nation stands with our friend and ally, Belgium, to bring those responsible for these evil attacks to justice.”
03.18.2016	03.18.16 Senator David Perdue Receives Award For Protecting Taxpayers WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) this week was presented with the Taxpayer Super Hero Award from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) for his work to cut wasteful spending and make government more accountable to taxpayers. “Georgians sent me to the United States Senate to make government more accountable to taxpayers and tackle the two crises facing our nation: the debt crisis and global security crisis,” said Senator Perdue. “I am honored to receive this award and will continue to work hard on behalf of all Georgians and the American people.” “We applaud and wholeheartedly thank Senator Perdue for his hard work on behalf of the taxpayers during his first year serving in Congress,” said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. “We have no doubt that Senator Perdue will continue to help lead the effort to end wasteful spending and reduce the growing national debt.”
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Senator David Perdue: It’s The Principle, Not The Individual WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today explained why his decision to withhold consent on a Supreme Court nominee is a principled decision to preserve this nomination process and the integrity of the nominee. Click here to view the speech or on the image below. Transcript: “Regarding the vacancy on the Supreme Court, many of our colleagues in the minority party have said the same things that we are saying today. Let’s stop kidding each other. This kind of political showmanship and, yes indeed, hypocrisy is exactly what makes everyone back in my home state absolutely apoplectic with Washington. The last time I addressed the Supreme Court vacancy on the Senate floor, I urged my colleagues on the other side of the aisle not to let the nominations process get bogged down in partisan politics. To not let this process turn into political theatre. That’s not what this should be about. Because that’s exactly what’s happened far too often in this body ever since the Bork nomination way back in 1987. The organized campaign of vilification and character attacks surrounding Judge Bork’s nomination was so unprecedented and so extreme that it took the creation of a new word – the verb ‘to bork’ – to describe what had happened. The process for nominating justices to the Supreme Court has been thoroughly politicized ever since. That politicization has done great damage not only to the Court, but to this body, the United States Senate. And it has expanded beyond just Supreme Court nominees and now affects so many of our nominees for circuit judgeships as well. That’s what happened in 2013 when then-Majority Leader Reid broke a tradition almost as old as the Senate itself, by invoking the nuclear option and breaking the Senate’s filibuster rule to stack various Circuit Courts. I don’t think I need to remind any of my colleagues that when the Democrats were in the minority there was no shortage of protests heard in this room about how sacred an institution the filibuster was. Keep in mind that the nuclear option was invoked after the Senate had confirmed the President’s first nominee to the D.C. Circuit by a unanimous of 97 to zero vote. It was an act of raw political power, the nuclear option. We heard yesterday that the President has named his nominee to the Supreme Court. But, let’s be clear, any previous confirmation, record as a judge, or professional qualifications are not the issue here, for any nominee. What’s at stake here is the integrity of the process, not the person. It’s the principle, not the individual. Because our judicial nominees to the Supreme Court, the circuits, and the district courts deserve better than to be used as pawns in a political fight. And that’s exactly what would happen if the Senate were to consider any nominee in the middle of this political season. I am new to this institution, but this has been the view of my colleagues in both parties who have served in the Senate for far longer than I have. This was their view no matter who the nominee was. This was their view even when there wasn’t a vacancy to fill. The former Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Vice President Biden, recognized this in 1992 when he said that, quote, ‘once the political season is underway, and it is, action on a Supreme Court nomination must be’ – I want to emphasize that must – ‘must be put off until after the election campaign is over. That is what is fair to the nominee and is central to the process. Otherwise, it seems to me, we will be in deep trouble as an institution.’ I agree. The Vice President correctly saw that when we inject a nomination into a contentious election-year atmosphere, we do a disservice not only to the nominee but to the institution of the United States Senate itself. It’s my view that enough institutional damage has already been done to the Senate through these politicized nominations. Now, I’d like to say a little about the text of the Constitution, we hear both sides talk about this, but let’s see it in detail. I’ve heard many of my Democratic colleagues claim that the Senate has an obligation to schedule hearings and hold a vote on this nominee. Well, we’ve all read Article 2, Section 2 of the Constitution. Every member of this body knows that the Constitution says nothing about hearings or votes on judicial nominees. It’s simply not there. Senators of both parties have always understood this and have said so for years, regardless of who was in the majority. In 2005, Minority Leader Reid said, ‘nowhere in the Constitution does it say the Senate has a duty to give Presidential appointees a vote.’ Before that, in 2002, the former Chief Judge of the DC Circuit, Abner Mikva, who was a Carter appointee, said that, quote, ‘the Senate should not act on any Supreme Court vacancies that might occur until after the next presidential election.’ The senior Senator from Nevada and Judge Mikva were right then, and Chairman Grassley and my Republican colleagues are right now. Despite many of them previously making the exact same points we are today, my Democratic colleagues are continuing this diatribe of telling us to do our job. I’d respectfully say to my Democratic colleagues today, we are doing our job. Our job as Senators is to decide how to responsibly exercise the powers of advice and consent delegated to us under our Constitution. The responsible course of action here – a course of action endorsed by both Democrats and Republicans for decades – is to refrain from initiating the nominations process in the midst of an election-year political fight. The responsible course of action is to avoid the political theatre that this nomination would become.”
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Senator David Perdue Condemns Atrocities Occurring At The Hands Of ISIS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after Secretary Kerry confirmed ISIS’ brutal actions in Syria are, in fact, genocide: “On too many occasions, the U.S. has been slow to act while thousands of innocent people have been massacred because of their nationality, ethnicity, or religion. It is tremendously important that today, our nation condemns the atrocities that are occurring at the hands of ISIS. For months, the world has witnessed this barbaric terrorist group target, torture, kill, and enslave members of Yazidi, Christian, and Shiite minorities in the Middle East. The first step in putting an end to genocide is recognizing and denouncing it when it occurs. What’s needed now is a final commitment to stop this genocide in Syria.”
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Senator David Perdue: Balancing The Budget Should Not Be A Partisan Issue WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary and Budget Committees, continues to advance an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to require Congress to balance the federal budget—a top priority of Georgians. “To address our exploding debt crisis, we must make many changes to Congress’ current budget process, and a good starting point would be passaging a Balanced Budget Amendment,” said Senator Perdue. “When Washington spends more money than it brings in, it threatens our ability to fund our nation’s priorities. Frankly, balancing the budget should not be a partisan issue and, until recently, balanced budget proposals had broad bipartisan support. Georgians and Americans expect us to advance this amendment and other common-sense legislation aimed at getting our fiscal house in order.” In his first weeks in office, Senator Perdue cosponsored the Balanced Budget Amendment. Georgia’s Constitution requires the state government to balance its budget every year. Today, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this federal legislation.
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Supreme Court Vacancy I remain firm in my decision to exercise my Constitutional authority and withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by President Obama. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today released the following statement after President Obama announced his nomination to the Supreme Court: “The Constitution is clear: the President shall nominate judges to the Supreme Court, but the power to grant, or withhold, consent of such nominees rests exclusively with the United States Senate. What’s at stake here is the balance of our nation's highest court and the direction of our country for decades. I remain firm in my decision to exercise my Constitutional authority and withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by President Obama.” In February, Senator Perdue joined Chairman Chuck Grassley and Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee in notifying Majority Leader McConnell that the committee will not hold any hearings or votes on any nominee until the next President is sworn in.
03.15.2016	03.15.16 Senator David Perdue: We Have A Moral Obligation To Protect Unborn Life WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and proud father and grandfather, released the following statement urging the Senate to advance two bills that protect life: “We have a moral obligation to protect unborn life, and it is unconscionable that federal law currently permits unborn babies to feel such unimaginable pain. It is likewise reprehensible that we would even have to require doctors to save every newborn’s life. Every child is a blessing and I will keep fighting to advance pro-life legislation and promote a culture that values all life.” Senator Perdue co-sponsored both bills, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act, the Senate Judiciary Committee is working to advance today. These bills aim to protect life and safeguard unborn babies from unimaginable pain.
03.14.2016	03.14.16 Senator David Perdue Opposes Confirmation of Secretary of Education We cannot turn back the clock by empowering one of Common Core's biggest supporters WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), the son of two school teachers and advocate for less federal control of education, released the following statement after voting against the confirmation of John B. King, Jr. as Department of Education Secretary: “After making some progress on stopping the federal government from mandating one-size-fits-all education standards, we cannot turn back the clock by empowering one of Common Core's biggest supporters. Instead, Georgians want to see Washington's involvement in state and local education decisions scaled back dramatically, and I will continue to fight to empower parents and teachers to help all students succeed.” Last year, Senator Perdue voted to get Washington out of our classrooms, end Common Core, and significantly reduce federal control of education by consolidating 49 federal programs. This legislation, the Every Student Succeeds Act, was ultimately signed into law.
03.11.2016	03.11.16 Senator David Perdue Calls For Unity With EU On Russia Sanctions Sanctions must remain in place until Putin ends his aggression and returns Crimea to Ukraine. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry expressing his concern over the pending renewal of the European Union’s (EU) sanctions against Russia for its illegal annexation of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine. Continuing his efforts to address global security concerns, Senator Perdue attended the Munich Security Conference this year where the pending renewal of EU sanctions on Russia was discussed. The sanctions are set to expire on July 31, 2016. “Any loosening of the sanctions regime against Russia would send a dangerous message at a time when Putin has refused to change his policies toward Ukraine and threatens others in the region,” wrote Senator Perdue. “I am particularly concerned about Putin’s hostility toward the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. These states are our frontline NATO allies. The United States must do more to support Baltic security and counter Kremlin propaganda that fuels discontent among Russian speakers in the region.” “As we take stronger action, the United States should also press harder to convince our NATO partners that the alliance needs to collectively demonstrate its ironclad commitment to the defense of the Baltic countries, including at the upcoming NATO summit in Warsaw, Poland,” continued Senator Perdue. “I urge the administration to exercise more active American leadership and engage with our European partners to make sure the EU renews its Russia sanctions in July. These sanctions must remain in place until Putin ends his aggression and returns Crimea to Ukraine.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. Dear Secretary Kerry, After attending this year's Munich Security Conference, I write to express my concern that the European Union (EU) will not renew sanctions against Russia for its illegal annexation of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine. I applaud the EU for recently extending its Crimea-related sanctions on nearly 150 Russian officials and pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine, but sectoral sanctions against the Russian economy must also be renewed by July 31, 2016. A number of European officials have visited Moscow recently and announced their desire to see sectoral sanctions withdrawn over the summer. Such action would be completely unjustified. Russia continues to occupy Crimea and undermine Ukraine’s territorial integrity in its eastern regions. Vladimir Putin has now openly admitted to the presence of Russian nationals in Ukraine “who carried out certain tasks, including in the military sphere.” He violates the Minsk agreement and refuses to grant Kyiv control of Ukraine’s internationally recognized borders. Russia also persists in its war of attrition against the Ukrainian economy. Moscow recently banned the import of Ukrainian agricultural products and imposed new tariffs after Kyiv and the EU began to implement a free trade agreement. This is not behavior that warrants sanctions rollback. Any loosening of the sanctions regime against Russia would send a dangerous message at a time when Putin has refused to change his policies toward Ukraine and threatens others in the region. I am particularly concerned about Putin’s hostility toward the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. These states are our frontline NATO allies. The United States must do more to support Baltic security and counter Kremlin propaganda that fuels discontent among Russian speakers in the region. As we take stronger action, the United States should also press harder to convince our NATO partners that the alliance needs to collectively demonstrate its ironclad commitment to the defense of the Baltic countries, including at the upcoming NATO summit in Warsaw, Poland. I urge the administration to exercise more active American leadership and engage with our European partners to make sure the EU renews its Russia sanctions in July. These sanctions must remain in place until Putin ends his aggression and returns Crimea to Ukraine. Sincerely, David A. Perdue
03.11.2016	03.11.16 Senator David Perdue Announces Veterans Information Expo ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced his inaugural Veterans Information Expo on March 22, 2016. The free event will run from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. at the National Infantry Museum in Columbus, Georgia. “Our veterans made incredible sacrifices while fighting for our freedom and it is our priority to assist them at every opportunity,” said Senator Perdue. “At this Expo, veterans and their families will have the opportunity to meet with members of my team who specialize in a variety of issue areas so we can ensure their needs are being met. We are forever thankful for all of Georgia’s veterans, and we look forward to working with them.” Representatives from Senator Isakson’s office, Congressman Bishop’s office, and Congressman Westmoreland’s office will also be available at the Expo to assist veterans. To reach Senator Perdue’s constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Senator David Perdue Staff Holds Veterans Information Expo Tuesday, March 22, 201610:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.National Infantry Museum1775 Legacy WayColumbus, GA 31903
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Senators Perdue, Peters Introduce Bipartisan Legislation To Improve Cybersecurity Coordination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced the State and Local Cyber Protection Act, bipartisan legislation to promote better coordination of cybersecurity efforts between state, local, and federal governments. “Cyberwarfare is the new frontier for foreign governments and hackers to threaten our national security,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “Anonymous attacks have already stolen Americans’ personal information and sensitive data from businesses and agencies. As our adversaries change their tactics, more coordination between state and federal governments is critical to combat potential vulnerabilities and future attacks.” “America faces unprecedented risks to our cyber infrastructure, and we must act to both combat these threats and protect the sensitive information of American citizens,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee. “I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation that will help ensure all levels of government are equipped with the best practices and resources to counter cyber threats.” “We applaud the introduction of the State and Local Cyber Protection Act by Senators Peters and Perdue. In partnership with states, counties are often responsible for managing critical information that needs to be safeguarded for privacy and personal protection. Counties work to ensure the security of information that travels through our nation's cyber systems,” said Matthew Chase, Executive Director of the National Association of Counties. “The State and Local Cyber Protection Act would increase access to resources to help protect critical information from criminal hacking. We look forward to continuing to work with Congress on legislation that provides counties with the tools necessary to mitigate the risk of cyber-attacks.” The State and Local Cyber Protection Act will enhance ongoing collaboration efforts between the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC), which shares information regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities, incidents, and mitigations with public and private sector partners, including state, local, and tribal governments. Specifically, this legislation would require the NCCIC to provide state and local governments with: Assistance, upon request, in identifying cyber vulnerabilities and appropriate security protections; Tools, policies, procedures, and other materials related to information security, and to work with state and local officials to coordinate effective implementation of these resources; Technical and operational assistance, upon request, to utilize technology in the analysis, continuous diagnosis and mitigation, and evaluation of cyber threats and responses; Assistance to develop policies and procedures consistent with industry best practices and international standards, including cybersecurity frameworks developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology; Technical assistance and cybersecurity training, upon request, to state and local personnel and fusion center analysts; and Privacy and civil liberties training as relates to cybersecurity, focusing on consistency with existing privacy laws and DHS policies, minimizing the retention and use of unnecessary information, and prompt removal of the personally identifiable information “unrelated” to a cyber threat.
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Foreign Relations Committee Approves Senator David Perdue’s Bipartisan Bill To Strengthen U.S.-Israel Economic Partnership WASHINGTON, D.C. –The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today unanimously approved bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) to strengthen the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and support new agreements for collaboration across a variety of sectors within the technology sphere. “At a time when so many in the world are trying to boycott, divest, and sanction Israel, it is important to highlight the importance of our relationship with this great ally,” said Senator Perdue. “Not only do we work with Israel on security issues, but we also have an amazing economic partnership that deserves our attention and support. Our economic ties with Israel sustain over 250,000 high paying American jobs, and Israel’s investment in the U.S. is larger than that from China, Russia, or even India. This resolution recognizes this robust economic relationship, and encourages the administration to explore new opportunities for collaboration and to expand existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel.” Co-sponsors of the bill include U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Jon Tester (D-MT). S. Res. 383 will now go before the U.S. Senate for consideration.
03.08.2016	03.08.16 Senator David Perdue Releases Video: “Four Words Rarely Heard In Washington” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released a video, “Four Words Rarely Heard In Washington,” where he talks directly to Georgians about how Washington attempts to pay its bills and continues to add to the debt. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Folks, I decided to run for the U.S. Senate because I recognized we’ve got a major crisis on our hands. We are well past the tipping point in this debt crisis, and Washington continues to do things that we simply cannot afford. Since I have been up here, there are four words that I hardly ever hear in the halls of Congress, and those are: we cannot afford it. Washington collected last year $3.3 trillion dollars but we spent over $3.7 trillion. That means the government spent nearly $450 billion dollars it did not have. As a matter of fact, over the last seven years, Washington spent $25 trillion running the government. I can’t even relate to how big that is. What I can understand, of that $25 trillion, we borrowed $9 trillion. Also, how little oversight Washington exerts in deciding how to spend this money is just as outrageous. Today, Congress only budgets 30% of what the government spends. The other 70% of government spending is mandatory. This 70% of mandatory spending pays for things like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and interest on the national debt. The other 30% of what Washington spends, is considered discretionary, and all of this money is borrowed. In fact, every dollar our government is spending on our military is borrowed. Every dollar we spend on foreign aid is borrowed. Folks, we are at the point where we cannot afford everything that we continue to do. We cannot afford to spend money on education for our kids. We cannot afford to spend money to repair our crumbling infrastructure. We cannot afford to spend money on our military. But, folks those are things that we absolutely have to have so we need to deal with our priorities. But, you know all of this hasn’t stopped Washington’s spending. The federal government hasn’t said, ‘Hey, wait a minute. We can’t afford to do all of this.’ The result today is we have $19 trillion in debt. And worse, we have over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities coming at us because of things Washington has already committed to. Having been through the budget process one full year, I now get it. The budget process itself is broken and so perverse that the only release valve is to spend more money, which is exactly what Washington has been doing and continues to do. Now, there is a better way. It’s what businesses, families, you, and I all have to do every month. We ask ourselves a simple question, can we afford it? And, that’s what is missing in Washington. When we get our paycheck back home, we allocate money to the things we don’t have a choice over—we pay the mortgage, the car payment, the light bill, the gas bill. We pay those first. Then we look at what’s left and decide whether we are eating hamburgers or steaks for the rest of the month. That’s what the federal government is not doing. And so, the result of that is that 100% of our discretionary spending is borrowed, if you look at the last seven years. But folks, the way forward is very simple. We can fix this fiscal mess, starting with the budget process by allocating against our priorities. To do this, we need to bring all mandatory spending under the budget process. We can save social security. We can grow the economy. We can reduce the number of redundant agencies. And yes, we can finally, get spiraling health care costs under control. If we do this, we would set up the next 50 years to be an even greater period of economic growth than previous 70 years for our children and our grandchildren. It’s not too late, but we are already well into this debt crisis, and it threatens our very ability to defend our country. We can solve this. We’ve done it before. But, we simply have to get started facing the fact that sometimes we simply cannot afford it.”
03.08.2016	03.08.16 Senator David Perdue: We Cannot Trust Iran To Play By The Rules WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after reports of Iran launching ballistic missiles: “Not even two months have passed since President Obama naively implemented his nuclear deal with Iran, and this rogue regime has violated international law multiple times by launching nuclear-capable ballistic missiles—most recently today. Iran’s repeated and blatant violations demonstrate that we cannot trust Iran to play by the rules. This latest ballistic missile test is a direct violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231. Therefore, we need to strengthen sanctions and go after the foreign banks and companies that finance and otherwise support Iran’s ballistic missile program, as well as those that supply this technology.”
03.06.2016	03.06.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On The Passing Of Nancy Reagan WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today made the following statement regarding the passing of First Lady Nancy Reagan: “Bonnie and I join the nation in mourning the loss of First Lady Nancy Reagan and lifting the Reagan family up in prayer. Like her husband, Nancy Reagan saw the good in people and worked tirelessly to strengthen our communities and advance the American dream. She championed our veterans, especially our heroes returning home from Vietnam. Together, the Reagans changed our country and their legacy will forever inspire our nation.”
03.04.2016	03.04.16 Senator David Perdue Presents Bold Solutions At Conservative Political Action Conference The stakes are too high for us not to make a difference right now for our country. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) delivered a powerful speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) this week. Senator Perdue outlined two major crises Americans face today and shared his conservative vision for our country. Click here to watch or click on the image below. Transcript: “Folks, it’s serious. It’s real. And it’s here right now. Our beloved country is in the middle of a crisis. It’s an overwhelming crisis and it has two components. The first is this global security crisis. I believe the world is more dangerous than in any other time in my lifetime. Interlocked with that global security crisis is our own federal debt crisis, which today threatens our very ability to fund our military and defend our country. Today, after we spend all of our tax revenue on mandatory expenses like Social Security and Medicare, and those are all necessary, but after we spend all of that, there’s nothing left. Every dime that is spent on foreign aid and every dime that is spent on our military is borrowed. We are indeed at a moment of crisis in America. Well how did we get here? And what do we do about it? In the last 100 years, we’ve had three Democratic super majorities. The first gave us the New Deal, the second gave us the Great Society, the third gave us Obamacare and Dodd-Frank. I’m just a business guy, but I would argue that most of the responsibility for this financial catastrophe can be laid at the feet of those three super majorities. The irony is that the very people that they claim to champion, the working middle class and the working poor, they have failed them. Today for example, the poverty rate is the same as it was when the Great Society and the War on Poverty started. These sweeping liberal progressive policies have failed. As a conservative, I am outraged by that because they still claim to champion the working middle class and the working poor. To me, it’s not that complicated, but people are still hurting out there in America. I hear it all of the time. I’m new to this, but I hear that over and over. It’s now no longer good enough to talk about liberalism and conservatism, because of this vein of disenfranchised people. I believe it is now the political class in Washington versus everybody else. You, me, and everybody back home. Look, we can solve this. It’s finally time that we, honestly, have an open and straightforward debate in Congress about bringing term limits to the United States Congress. We can fix this. These complicated problems are not so complicated that we can’t solve them. We can absolutely fix this budget. It’s only worked four times in the last 40 years. Do you think any business could survive doing that? No. It’s what creates this problem. We could absolutely get rid of these redundant programs. The General Accounting Office estimates that would save about $400 billion. We need to get our economy growing and get people back to work. It’s not that hard to do. If we would just revise these archaic and out-of-date and non-competitive tax laws. If we would push back on regulatory agencies that are overburdening small businesses, and if we would once and for all take advantage and develop a plan for these God given resources, we can get this economy going. We can absolutely save Social Security and Medicare. We have to for the people that need it the most. The problem is, both of those trust funds are literally out of money in less than 15 years. Their trust funds go to zero. We can absolutely get this economy going again. The next thing is that we have to get at the underlying cost of our health care system. Throw out Obamacare, and put in a new replacement plan, and let’s get at the spiraling cost of health care. But, before we do all of that, honestly, I think we’ve got to do one thing. It may be the hardest thing to do. We’ve got to return to the founding principles of our Founding Mothers and our Founding Fathers: economic opportunity, limited government, individual liberty, fiscal responsibility, faith in God. Ronald Reagan once said, Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We don’t pass it down in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and passed on so they can do the same. Or one day, in our sunset years, we’ll be telling our children and our children’s children what it was once like in America when women and men were free. Not on my watch, that’s why I got involved. Not on your watch, that’s why you’re here. The stakes are too high for us not to make a difference right now for our country. No matter who your presidential candidate is, no matter who the nominee is, we cannot allow Hillary Rodham Clinton one more night in our White House. Thank you, thank you for what you do, and God Bless the United States of America.”
03.03.2016	03.03.16 Senators Perdue, Tester, Coons Introduce Legislation To Strengthen U.S.-Israel Economic Partnership Resolution supports innovation and collaboration across multiple sectors in technology sphere WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Jon Tester (D-MT), and Chris Coons (D-DE) today introduced S. Res. 383, bipartisan legislation to recognize the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and support new agreements for collaboration across a variety of sectors within the technology sphere. Since the signing of the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Agreement 30 years ago, Israel has become one of our country’s most dynamic economic collaborators in the Middle East and North Africa. Today, individual states are entering into agreements with Israel to deepen cooperation in specific areas of mutual interest, and our joint science and technology research institutions are collaborating on life-changing medical breakthroughs and clean energy technology. The economic impact of this partnership is significant and it deserves our unwavering support. “The U.S.-Israel strategic alliance helped pave the way for our nations to develop vital economic ties,” said Senator Perdue. “Israel is a hub for innovation, and together our technology sectors have created jobs and encouraged innovation across the economic spectrum. We must continue working with Prime Minister Netanyahu to explore new opportunities for collaboration to grow economic sectors, increase cybersecurity, and advance medical research.” “For nearly 70 years, the U.S. and Israel have been inseparable allies, and that relationship is strengthened when our economies grow together,” said Senator Tester. “At a time when some are looking to limit our economic ties to Israel, we should keep building our relationship to tackle the world’s biggest challenges.” “I am proud to cosponsor a resolution commemorating the strong economic ties between the U.S. and Israel,” said Senator Coons. “I continue to be impressed with the innovative, entrepreneurial spirit of the Israeli people, and I look forward to working to deepen our ties in this area and many others.” “The Israel Allies Foundation is very thankful to Senators Perdue, Tester, and Coons for their sponsorship of Senate Resolution 383,” said EJ Kimball, Executive Director of the Israel Allies Foundation. “America's economic ties with Israel are incredibly valuable: U.S. exports to Israel sustain over 250,000 high paying American jobs, and Israel's investment in America is larger than investment from China, India, or Russia. Yet ties can be deepened, and the Israel Allies Foundation will work with Senators Perdue, Tester, and Coons as their leadership paves the way for even more American jobs through deeper economic engagement with Israel.” Specifically, S. Res. 383 seeks to: (1) affirm the robustness of the economic relationship; (2) recognize that science and technology innovation present new frontiers for economic cooperation; (3) encourage the Administration to expand and regularize existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel; and (4) support the exploration of new agreements, including in the fields of energy, water, agriculture, medicine, neurotechnology and cybersecurity.
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Senator David Perdue: It Is The Role Of The Senate To Rise Above Political Theater We will not consider a nominee to the Supreme Court before the next president is sworn into office. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor about his decision to not consider a nominee to the Supreme Court before the next president is sworn into office. Click here to watch or click the image below. Transcript: “I believe the Senate should not hold hearings or schedule a vote on any Supreme Court nominee offered by President Obama until the American people choose our next president this November. The American people are reacting to our global security and debt crises when they go to the polls, and this upcoming election will not only determine the direction of our country, but it also serves as a referendum on the Presidency and Congress, and now the Supreme Court balance. The last seven years have shown that the President has sought to exceed the Constitutional bounds of his office by assuming powers that were delegated to this body. For instance, in January of 2013, the President attempted to “recess” appoint nominees to the National Labor Relations Board in direct violation of the Senate’s will. Of course, the Supreme Court later intervened and struck down those appointments. As well, my colleagues across the aisle have repeatedly shown a willingness to aid this administration in making unprecedented power grabs including employing the nuclear option on judicial nominees. The American people were outraged at these events, as was I. So while I acknowledge the President’s position on insisting the Senate consider a nominee, it is vital that the people get their say on this lifetime position. It is the role of the Senate to rise above current political theatre. It is about upholding this principle and not about the individual. The Senate simply should not consider a nominee at this time and let the people have their say. I should also point out that my position, and the position of many of my colleagues is not a novel idea. For instance: It was then-Senator Obama who filibustered Justice Alito’s nomination in 2006. It was then-Senator Biden who in 1992 pre-emptively said that President George H.W. Bush should avoid a Supreme Court nomination until after that year’s election. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, then-Senator Biden also made the same point we are today when he came to the floor of the Senate and said, quote: ‘It is my view that if a Supreme Court justice resigns tomorrow or within the next several weeks, or resigns at the end of the summer, President Bush should consider following the practice of a majority of his predecessors and not – and not – name a nominee until after the November election is completed.’ The balance of the Supreme Court is in serious jeopardy. We must ensure that balance remains as a check against efforts by government to bypass the will of the people. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I stand with Chairman Grassley and other members in saying that we will not consider a nominee to the Supreme Court before the next president is sworn into office. We are already in the midst of a political campaign season, so any nominee will be seen through the lens of partisan politics. It is disingenuous for the minority party to say otherwise, and this is to the point that then-Senator Biden was speaking in 1992. As we said in our letter last week, we intend to exercise the Constitutional power granted to the United States Senate under Article II, Section 2. While the President shall nominate judges to the Supreme Court, the power to grant or withhold consent of such nominees rests solely with this body. At a time when the stakes are so high, the American people deserve the opportunity to engage in a full and robust debate over the type of jurist they wish to decide some of the most critical issues of our time for the next generation. Not since 1932 has the Senate confirmed a Supreme Court nominee in a presidential election year to a vacancy arising in that year. And it is necessary to go even further back – to 1888 – to find an election year nominee who was both nominated and confirmed under divided government, as we have now. Today, the American people are presented with an exceedingly rare opportunity to decide the direction the Court will take over the next generation. The people should have this opportunity.”
03.01.2016	03.01.16 Senator David Perdue: Washington’s Political Class Is Not Listening I think the pendulum has swung to another axis. It’s the political class versus everybody else. WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today on Fox Business Network highlighted two important issues Americans want to hear about from the 2016 presidential candidates: our country’s skyrocketing federal debt and growing global security crisis. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Political Class Versus The American People: “Politics in America used to be one dimension. It was based in ideology, liberal versus conservative, and in my race we talked about the debt, the economy, jobs and what was wrong in Washington, and we struck a vein. There is a vein of disenfranchised voters in America, and that’s what is happening right now. I think the pendulum has swung to another axis. It’s the political class versus everybody else.” Addressing America’s Crushing National Debt: “I’ve been staying out of this and not endorsing anybody because I am trying to influence these campaigns to talk about the debt, and how the debt interlocks with the global security crisis. We’re at the point now, because of this debt, where it’s threatening our national security and our ability to defend our country. That’s what we’re talking about right now, and I hope to hear that in the coming weeks.” Why We Need Term Limits: “There’s no surprise, frankly, that there is a correlation between this growing debt crisis and the fact that we don’t have term limits. We have almost 60 U.S. Senators who have been in elected office of one kind or another, for over 20 years. 36 Senators have been in elected office for more than 30 years. I just don’t think the Founding Fathers ever had that in mind. It was too onerous to serve in Congress.” Washington Is Not Listening: “Today, there is a political class. And that is what you’re seeing in the presidential race, and I saw it in my race. It’s that people want to be heard in Washington, and the political class is not listening.”
03.01.2016	03.01.16 Senator David Perdue Announces March Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of March. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we’re excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s March mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Southwest Georgia RegionMonday, March 710:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Colquitt County Farm Bureau1899 Sylvester HighwayMoultrie, GA 31768 Northeast Georgia RegionTuesday, March 810:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Gwinnett County Justice and Administration Center2nd Floor Conference Center – Room C75 Langley DriveLawrenceville, GA 30046 Northwest Georgia RegionWednesday, March 910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Dalton Area Chamber of CommerceConference Room100 S. Hamilton StreetDalton, GA 30720 Metro Atlanta RegionThursday, March 1010:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Henry County Farm Bureau OfficeConference Room117 Racetrack RoadMcDonough, GA 30253 Southeast Georgia RegionMonday, March 2110:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Bacon County UGA Extension OfficeConference Room203 S. Dixon StreetAlma, GA 31510 Northwest Georgia RegionWednesday, March 2310:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Cartersville School System OfficeBoard Room15 Nelson StreetCartersville, GA 30120 Central Savannah River RegionThursday, March 2410:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Columbia County Government Complex1st Floor Conference RoomBuilding B630 Ronald Reagan DriveEvans, GA 30809 Middle Georgia RegionTuesday, March 2910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Flint Energies Member Center98 Carl Vinson ParkwayWarner Robins, GA 31095
02.24.2016	02.24.16 Senator David Perdue Meets With Georgia Farm Bureau President WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today met with members of the Georgia Farm Bureau and Georgia Farm Bureau President, Gerald Long. A family farmer from Decatur County, Gerald Long was named President when his predecessor, Zippy Duvall, was named President of the American Farm Bureau Federation. He has been a member of the Farm Bureau since 1970 and previously served as the Georgia Farm Bureau South Georgia Vice President and 9th District Director, where he covered 14 counties in Southwest Georgia. (Pictured left to right: Zippy Duvall, Bonnie Duvall, Senator David Perdue, Janice Long, and Gerald Long. Photo credit: Senator Perdue’s Press Office.) “Gerald is a wonderful representation of Georgia’s diverse agriculture community, as he farms a variety of our state’s key crops—vegetables, corn, cotton, peanuts, timber, hay, small grains, and raises cattle,” said Senator Perdue. “I applaud Gerald and Janice for taking on this incredible responsibility, and I look forward to working together. I also would like to wish outgoing President Zippy Duvall the best of luck as he serves the Farm Bureau in his new capacity.”
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Senator David Perdue: No Hearings On Supreme Court Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today sent a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell indicating that he will exercise his constitutional authority to withhold consent of any nominee submitted by President Barack Obama and the Senate Judiciary Committee will not hold hearings on a Supreme Court nominee until the next President is sworn in. The letter, signed by all Senate Judiciary Committee Republicans, says, “The American people are presented with an exceedingly rare opportunity to decide, in a very real and concrete way, the direction the Court will take over the next generation. We believe The People should have this opportunity.” The Senators added, “Accordingly, given the particular circumstances under which this vacancy arises, we wish to inform you of our intention to exercise our constitutional authority to withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by this President to fill Justice Scalia’s vacancy. Because our decision is based on constitutional principle and born of a necessity to protect the will of the American people, this Committee will not hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee until after our next President is sworn in on January 20, 2017.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. Dear Majority Leader McConnell, As we write, we are in the midst of a great national debate over the course our country will take in the coming years. The Presidential election is well underway. Americans have already begun to cast their votes. As we mourn the tragic loss of Justice Antonin Scalia, and celebrate his life’s work, the American people are presented with an exceedingly rare opportunity to decide, in a very real and concrete way, the direction the Court will take over the next generation. We believe The People should have this opportunity. Over the last few days, much has been written about the constitutional power to fill Supreme Court vacancies, a great deal of it inaccurate. Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution is clear. The President may nominate judges of the Supreme Court. But the power to grant, or withhold, consent to such nominees rests exclusively with the United States Senate. This is not a difficult or novel constitutional question. As Minority Leader Harry Reid observed in 2005, “The duties of the Senate are set forth in the U.S. Constitution. Nowhere in that document does it say the Senate has a duty to give the Presidential nominees a vote. It says appointments shall be made with the advice and consent of the Senate. That is very different than saying every nominee receives a vote.” We intend to exercise the constitutional power granted the Senate under Article II, Section 2 to ensure the American people are not deprived of the opportunity to engage in a full and robust debate over the type of jurist they wish to decide some of the most critical issues of our time. Not since 1932 has the Senate confirmed in a presidential election year a Supreme Court nominee to a vacancy arising in that year. And it is necessary to go even further back — to 1888 — in order to find an election year nominee who was nominated and confirmed under divided government, as we have now. Accordingly, given the particular circumstances under which this vacancy arises, we wish to inform you of our intention to exercise our constitutional authority to withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by this President to fill Justice Scalia’s vacancy. Because our decision is based on constitutional principle and born of a necessity to protect the will of the American people, this Committee will not hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee until after our next President is sworn in on January 20, 2017. Sincerely, Chuck Grassley Orrin Hatch Jeff Sessions Lindsey Graham John Cornyn Mike Lee Ted Cruz Jeff Flake David Vitter David Perdue Thom Tillis
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Senator David Perdue: Americans Will Not Stand The Thought Of Placing Terrorists On U.S. Soil WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s plan to close the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay: “President Obama continues to put campaign promises ahead of national security. First, against the advice of military leaders, President Obama abruptly ended the war in Iraq which created a vacuum for ISIS, and now he wants to close Guantanamo Bay, the very prison used to detain terrorists. Americans will not stand the thought of placing terrorists on U.S. soil, and the transfer of detainees to other countries does not erase the threat of their continued extremist actions. This plan from the Pentagon places our citizens at unacceptable—and completely avoidable—levels of risk.” Earlier this month, military leaders told Congress they will not transfer any detainees to the U.S. because it is currently against the law. Meanwhile, President Obama continued to quietly empty out Guantanamo Bay, transferring as many as 17 detainees last month. The remaining 91 detainees at Guantanamo include high-level terrorists who military officials have determined to be too dangerous to transfer to other countries. Additionally, a recent intelligence report shows 30 percent of released detainees are known or suspected to have re-joined the fight against Americans and will seek to reengage in terrorist activity. ###
02.18.2016	02.18.16 Senator David Perdue: Balance Of Our Nation's Highest Court In Serious Jeopardy WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court vacancy: "The very balance of our nation’s highest court is in serious jeopardy. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I will do everything in my power to encourage the President and Senate leadership not to start this process until we hear from the American people. "Given our global security crisis and debt crisis, the upcoming election will not only determine the direction of our country, but also serve as a referendum on the Presidency and Congress, and now the Supreme Court. “President Obama’s record of ruling through executive action and regulatory mandates has shown he is willing to circumvent Congress and bypass the will of the people. We cannot allow the President to continue to use the judicial system to achieve his liberal agenda. "Ultimately, the selection of the next lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court will impact all Americans for decades to come, and I believe we must ensure that Justice Scalia is replaced by someone who will continue his unwavering commitment to uphold our Constitution.”
02.13.2016	02.13.16 Senator David Perdue on Passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: "Justice Scalia's fidelity to the Constitution and the rule of law transformed the Supreme Court and modern American jurisprudence. He will be remembered as one of the most consequential justices in American history and his legacy will animate our understanding of the Constitution for generations to come. What a tremendous mind, and what a tremendous loss for our nation."
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Senator David Perdue Praises Supreme Court Decision To Block Obama’s Energy Tax President Obama and his overzealous EPA have proven they will stop at nothing to kill the coal industry WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today praised the Supreme Court for blocking the implementation of President Obama’s Clean Power Plan, an extensive energy tax on carbon emissions, until a decision is reached on a petition filed by 25 states, including Georgia and industry leaders. “Over the past seven years, President Obama and his overzealous EPA have proven they will stop at nothing to kill the coal industry and advance their progressive climate change agenda,” said Senator Perdue. “Since President Obama refuses to work with Congress and make changes to our nation’s laws legally, the courts have been forced to intervene and stop his executive overreaches. This energy tax will cost thousands of American jobs and prevent future capital investment. The coal industry has already been devastated by this regulatory mandate and I’m encouraged that the justice system has acted to bring balance back to the separation of powers. It is time for President Obama to stop crippling the coal industry and start focusing on our nation’s energy independence.” Senator Perdue originally blasted the plan when it was announced in August 2015 and highlighted the impact it would have on coal-fired power plants. Senator Perdue co-sponsored two resolutions of disapproval in October 2015 that would stop the EPA from implementing these harmful regulations. The Senate passed both resolutions but the President vetoed these efforts.
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Senator David Perdue Calls For More Forceful Response to Confront Nuclear Threat WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spoke on the Senate floor in favor of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act and highlighted his amendment, which would expose the dangerous nuclear cooperation between North Korea and Iran. Click here to view the speech or on the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak on an amendment I introduced to the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act. This bill we’re considering today will provide a more robust set of tools to confront the nuclear threat from Pyongyang by expanding and tightening enforcement of sanctions on North Korea. This bill goes beyond sanctions and calls for a more forceful response to North Korea’s cyber-attacks and human rights abuses. We now have an opportunity to highlight North Korea’s cooperation with Iran on nuclear weapons and ballistic missile development. North Korea’s nuclear cooperation with Iran is widely suspected, and yet the Obama Administration has been reluctant to disclose what it knows to Congress. Last month, North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear weapons test. Iranian officials reportedly traveled to North Korea to witness its three previous tests in 2006, 2009, and 2013. Given this trend, I wouldn’t be surprised if Iranians were present at North Korea’s nuclear test last month. Just before North Korea’s 2013 test, a senior American official was quoted as saying ‘it’s very possible that North Koreans are testing for two countries.’ And yesterday, Director of National Intelligence Jim Clapper provided written testimony to Congress that stated that Pyongyang’s ‘export of ballistic missiles and associated materials to several countries, including Iran and Syria, and its assistance to Syria’s construction of a nuclear reactor…illustrate its willingness to proliferate dangerous technologies.’ We’ve known that Iran and North Korea have been cooperating on ballistic missile technology, and it has been suspected for over a decade that they are also working together on nuclear weapons development, as well as ballistic technology. In the wake of the nuclear agreement, Iran is starting to see a flow in funds from sanctions relief of potentially over well in excess of $100 billion dollars. As Iran gets this flow of cash, I’m concerned that we’ll see this illicit cooperation increase, and that Iran will use some of these funds to pay North Korea for further testing and technology. This amendment, number 3294, would require a semiannual report to Congress, that’s all, and this report would cover North Korea’s cooperation with Iran on nuclear weapon and ballistic missile testing, development, and research. We’ve been asking for this information, and have not received it in timely fashions. The administration would also be required to disclose to Congress the identity of individuals who have knowingly engaged in or directed material support for, or exchanged information between governments of Iran and North Korea for their nuclear programs in this semiannual report. In order for us to tackle this problem head-on, and to take steps to halt this illicit cooperation, we need a full report from the administration. It’s as simple as that. I’m glad to see this body moving so swiftly to enact punitive sanctions on North Korea for its recent actions, and this amendment will help further strengthen efforts to punish rogue regimes. I’d like to also applaud the efforts of my colleagues on the Foreign Relations Committee—Senator Gardner, Chairman Corker, and Senator Menendez—for their work on getting this bill through committee and to the floor. Their leadership on this issue has been tremendous, and I look forward to working with them on the floor to see its passage.”
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Senator David Perdue Amendment Seeks to Expose Nuclear Cooperation Between North Korea & Iran “The sooner we acknowledge this illicit cooperation, the sooner we can work to put it to a halt.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is urging the Senate to adopt an amendment he introduced to the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, which requires the Obama Administration to report to Congress regarding Iran’s cooperation with North Korea on nuclear weapon and ballistic missile development and disclose known linkages between the two rogue states’ illicit programs. “It’s undeniable that Iran and North Korea have been cooperating on nuclear weapon and ballistic missile development for years now,” said Senator Perdue. “Iranians have reportedly been present for at least three of North Korea’s nuclear tests. This amendment forces the Obama Administration to disclose to Congress what it knows about this cooperation between rogue nations, instead of denying the linkages. The sooner we acknowledge this illicit cooperation, the sooner we can work to put it to a halt.” After North Korea tested a hydrogen bomb last month, Senator Perdue called on President Obama to take action to stop Iran and North Korea from supporting each other’s nuclear weapons efforts aimed at harming Americans and our allies. A provision similar to Senator Perdue’s amendment was included in the House-passed version of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (H.R. 757, Sec 210) but was not included in the Senate bill. The Senate is expected to vote today on its version of the legislation. View the full text of Senator Perdue’s amendment here.
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Senators Perdue & McCain Introduce Bill To Fully Repeal & Replace Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and John McCain (R-AZ) today introduced the Empowering Patients First Act, companion legislation to a bill introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Tom Price (R-GA-06), to fully repeal and replace Obamacare with common-sense solutions that put patients back in charge of their health care decisions. “Since the president jammed Obamacare through Congress without a single Republican vote, the American people have been let down by higher health care costs, decreased quality of care, and fewer choices,” said Senator McCain. “Families in Arizona and across the country should have the power to make their own medical decisions – not Washington bureaucrats. This bill puts patients and doctors back in charge of their health care by fully repealing Obamacare and replacing it with a free-market approach that strengthens the quality and accessibility of care.” “Our health care system needs to change, but Obamacare was never the right solution. Under Obamacare, people have had their insurance cancelled, lost access to their preferred doctors, and are paying higher premiums and deductibles,” said Senator Perdue. “Now more than ever, Americans want to make their own health care decisions based on their needs, not government requirements. Dr. Price’s alternative to Obamacare puts patients and families in charge by increasing accessibility, transportability, and insurability. There are alternatives to Washington bureaucrats taking over our health care system, and I am proud to sponsor this common-sense solution in the Senate.” “Obamacare is harming the American people – taking more money out of their pockets and denying individuals and families access to quality, responsive health care,” said Congressman Price. “We need to repeal this disastrous law, stop its assault on the doctor-patient relationship, and then start over with reforms that empower patients, not Washington. I look forward to fighting alongside Senator McCain and Senator Perdue to enact those positive, patient-centered solutions.” Specifically, the Empowering Patients First Act would repeal Obamacare and replace it with health care based on policies that: Establish age-adjusted tax credits Ensure no one is priced out of the market, including individuals with pre-existing conditions Provide economic incentives for everyone to purchase coverage, without mandates Make coverage more portable to help ensure continuity of care Protect employer-sponsored insurance Promote wellness and improved care through economic incentives Curb defensive medicine and lawsuit abuse through tort reform Deliver greater coverage options, including Independent Health Pools (IHPs) and Association Health Plans (AHPs) Allow for the purchase of insurance across state lines Build on Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) and other models to drive down costs Create parity between the individual and large group markets Get government out of the way to protect the patient-physician relationship A complete section-by-section overview of the bill is available here.
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on President Obama’s Final Budget Request Georgians sent me here to awaken Washington to this financial catastrophe. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today issued the following statement after President Obama released his final budget, which like his previous budget requests pushes for more taxes, more spending, and more debt: “The only positive thing about this budget request is that it’s the last one we will receive from President Obama. Our country is facing a debt crisis and it is well past the tipping point. Americans cannot afford to send more money to Washington to pay for more government spending programs that are failing the very people they intended to help. Georgians sent me here to awaken Washington to this financial catastrophe. We can fix this mess and we have to start with changing the budget process. Every elected official in Washington needs to start saying four simple words Americans use all the time, ‘we cannot afford it.’”
02.08.2016	02.08.16 Senator David Perdue Introduces Accurate Accounting Act DC will never get spending under control unless we have a budget process that works. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today introduced the Accurate Accounting Act of 2016, which ends some of the most egregious problems of our federal budgeting process and holds Washington accountable for a complete and accurate assessment of all federal spending. “Washington will never get spending under control unless we have a budget process that works,” said Senator David Perdue. “Without an honest and accurate assessment of the federal balance sheet, Americans don’t know what the government takes in and what it spends. There should be no hidden trust funds or unaccountable spending programs. We can start addressing this financial mess today by adopting cost-control techniques used readily in the business world. This is the first step to realigning federal spending with the American people’s priorities.” Since the current budget process was created in 1974, it has only worked four times in the past forty years. Today, our country is $19 trillion in debt and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects the debt will soar to $30 trillion in a decade. Clearly, something must be done immediately to stop the fiscal insanity in Washington. The Accurate Accounting Act of 2016: Requires Business Centric Zero-Based Budget This budgeting technique, well known as a cost-control tool in the business world, can quickly realign our federal spending to match the American people’s priorities. Requires the Executive Branch to reexamine and justify each federal agency’s needs and priorities every term. Reveals True Cost of Social Security To save Social Security we must end the firewall between Social Security and the rest of the country’s finances. Social Security is the single largest federal expenditure and its costs are currently hidden from the American people. Putting Social Security spending on the Budget Resolution is the first step in bringing fiscal accountability back to Congress. Increases Accountability Too many federal government programs run on autopilot and are not subject to yearly Congressional oversight. Requires the GAO to consistently produce a report on every program with spending authority or permanent appropriations within the federal budget.
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Senator David Perdue Announces February Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of February. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities.” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we’re excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s February mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. SouthwestMonday, February 810:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Grady County Farm Bureau15 12th Avenue NECairo, GA 31728 NortheastTuesday, February 910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Athens-Clarke County LibraryMulti Room B2025 Baxter StreetAthens, GA 30606 West GeorgiaWednesday, February 1010:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Heard County Development AuthorityConference Room121 South Court SquareFranklin, GA 30217 Metro AtlantaThursday, February 1110:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Exchange Recreation CenterMultipurpose Room2771 Columbia DriveDecatur, GA 30034 SoutheastMonday, February 2210:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Office of State Senator Jack Hill109 College AvenueReidsville, GA 30452 Middle GeorgiaTuesday, February 2310:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Washington County CourthouseRoom 112132 W. Haynes StreetSandersville, GA 31082 Central Savannah River AreaThursday, February 2510:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.McDuffie County Government Complex1st Floor Conference Room210 Railroad StreetThomson, GA 30824 NorthwestMonday, February 2910:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.Georgia Highlands College, Floyd CampusAdministration BuildingStudent Support Services Conference Room3175 Cedartown HighwayRome, GA 30161
02.03.2016	02.03.16 Senator David Perdue: Washington Needs To Say “We Cannot Afford It” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today addressed the Senate Budget Committee about Washington’s debt crisis and highlighted four simple words that are missing from the debate. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Four words that I have not heard up here in one year, that I used to hear every day in business. And that is, ‘We cannot afford it.’ We all do it in our personal homes, we do it in our personal lives, we teach our children to do it. And yet we run a federal government where we absolutely do not consider that.” ###
01.29.2016	01.29.16 Senator David Perdue Commends Georgia Student Graduating from Senate Page School WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today attended the Senate Page School graduation of David Brannon of Augusta, GA. Through this program, students are able to assist with the legislative process while completing rigorous coursework for a school semester. “David is an incredibly intelligent and respectful young man,” said Senator Perdue. “I was absolutely delighted that he was able to have this experience and couldn’t be more proud of his representation of Georgia. David has the brightest future, and I look forward to staying in touch and keeping track of his progress.” “The United State Senate Page Program is unrivaled in its ability to provide life changing opportunities to young men and women,” said David Brannon during his commencement speech. David is the son of Brett and Kelly Brannon. He will graduate from Lakeside High School in the Spring of 2017. Brannon was honored as the valedictorian of the program. At the ceremony, he was also awarded for Outstanding Academic Achievement in United States History and American Literature as well as Demonstrating Love of Country, Participation in the Community, Respect for Others, and a Willingness to Serve Others. The U.S. Senate Page Program allows students to witness the action live on the Senate Floor. Duties include correspondence delivery, chamber preparation, and carrying amendments and bills from one location to another. To learn more about the page program click here. ###
01.28.2016	01.28.16 Senator David Perdue: Debt Projections For The Next Decade Are Very Sobering DC received a loud wake-up call this week. Over the next decade our country will grow to nearly $30 trillion in debt. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Budget Committee, today spoke on the Senate floor about the latest debt projections outlined in the Congressional Budget Office’s Budget and Economic Outlook Report for 2016 to 2026: Click here to watch or click the image below. Transcript: “Washington received a loud wake-up call this week. On Monday, the Congressional Budget Office, the CBO, released its biannual Budget and Economic Outlook Report and the projections for the next decade are very sobering. The non-partisan study found that over the next decade our country will grow to nearly $30 trillion in debt. Folks, that is $30 trillion in debt. This is unbelievable. It’s unmanageable. A number this large is nearly impossible to comprehend, and maybe that is why this seems to have gone unnoticed, buried under headlines about presidential politics, Super Bowl 50, Snowzilla, and Apple’s latest earnings statement. But, what we can comprehend is who is responsible for paying off this debt eventually—we are, the American people. With nearly $19 trillion in debt today and over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities, we’re well past the tipping point. That means, each American family is responsible today for nearly $1 million of this debt. In addition, the Social Security and Medicare trust funds are expected to go to zero in roughly 15 short years. According to an AEI analysis of this CBO report, spending on Social Security, Medicare, and other health care programs will grow at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent from 2016 to 2026, pushing spending on Social Security and health care alone to upwards of $4.1 trillion in 2026—just 10 short years from now. Mr. President, this is more than we spent last year on the entire federal government. This is not 20 years from now. This is in the immediate future. We will be spending more on these items than we did last year on the entire government. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle recognize that we’ve got a crises; however, their solution is to tax working people of America more. Well, Mr. President, that’s exactly what we’ve been doing and it’s not working. In the last 15 years, our federal government’s spending has grown from $2.4 trillion in the year 2000 to $3.7 trillion in constant 2015 dollars. Because of that, over this same period—from 2000 to 2015—our federal debt has grown from $6 trillion in 2000, to $19 trillion today. It’s unbelievable. However, last year, the federal government collected $3.2 trillion in taxes. This is the largest amount ever in our history. We have a spending problem, not a revenue problem. Furthermore, our country’s debt is not interest free, and taxpayers are already paying immensely for Washington’s fiscal malfeasance. Last month, interest rates increased a quarter of a point—only a quarter of a point—but this equates to almost $50 billion in new interest expense every single year. Our country must borrow even more money to pay this additional interest expense. That, Mr. President, this is usually a true measure of total insolvency. And, this interest rate increase is widely suspected to be followed by another increase later this year. Imagine if interest rates go up to just their 50 year average of 5.5 percent, taxpayers would be paying almost a trillion dollars in interest alone. This is more than twice what we spend on our military. It’s more than twice what we spend on our discretionary non-military spending. It’s unmanageable, and we’ve got to deal with it right now. Having been in the business world for over 40 years, there are four words that I used to hear often and we used them frequently, ‘we cannot afford it.’ I personally have not heard these words once in Washington over this past year, my first year in the Senate. We simply cannot afford all we are spending today, and the CBO says it will only get much worse. Just look at Washington’s grand bargain this past year. I voted against this bad policy because it significantly added to the national debt and eradicated the conservative budget we put in place last year, which did cut $7 trillion from the President’s budget request of last year. Additionally, President Obama’s economic failures and disastrous health care law have dangerously set our debt up to soar even higher after he leaves office. CBO projects Obamacare will enroll 40 percent fewer participants than expected in 2016. This will result in the federal government spending more money to support the failed marketplace exchange so it does not collapse. The Hill reports, ‘spending on the marketplace is expected to rise to $56 billion next year, up from $38 billion this year. Within a decade, that total is expected to double to $109 billion.’ Plus, spending on health care programs has already jumped from $671 billion in 2008, to $1.1 trillion this year. And, CBO projects health care spending will nearly double in the next ten years, reaching $2 trillion by 2026. This is a train wreck, and it’s here. Clearly, Washington cannot keep spending like this and we’ve got to make the changes necessary today. We have already reached the point where our federal debt has become the greatest threat to our national and global security. At this moment we cannot pay for the tools needed to defend our country. Last year, we spent roughly 3.2 percent of GDP on defense, less than the 30 year average of 4.2 percent of GDP. This is the lowest level in over a decade. We’ve been at war for more than a decade, and in the process we have worn out our military equipment and desperately need to recapitalize and update it. More concerning, we are wearing out our people and we cannot fully support our women and men fighting on the front lines. Mr. President, the crisis is here right now. It’s real, it’s dangerous, and it threatens our very way of life. These are economic realities we must come to grips with quickly in order to turn things around and change the direction of our country. We can solve our national debt crisis, but Washington’s business as usual approach must change and lawmakers must start saying ‘we cannot afford it.’ Solving the debt crises starts with totally reinventing the failed budget process, which has only worked 4 times in the past 40 years. We have to also reduce the size of our federal bureaucracy and start with redundant agencies. Washington already has 256 government programs running on autopilot, costing taxpayers $310 billion a year. And, there are hundreds of billions of dollars in duplicative programs and more opportunities to reduce waste. It goes without saying, we need to get our economy growing again, and we can do this by changing our archaic tax laws, by eliminating unnecessary regulations stifling our free enterprise system, and by finally unleashing the full potential of our energy resources here in America—responsibly. But, Mr. President, we will not solve this debt crisis until we save Social Security and Medicare, and address our spiraling health care costs. Now the solution to this will take decades, but we’ve got to start now. This CBO report reveals a stark reality—we are simply out of time. This debt crisis can no longer be ignored. It’s here now. Washington must face up to that stark reality. We simply must start making the tough decisions required to put a plan in place to reduce this outrageous debt. We must do this right now for our future, for our children, and for our children’s children.”
01.28.2016	01.28.16 Senator David Perdue Applauds Committee Passage of Antiquities Bill “Antiquities sales are ISIS’s second largest source of funding. This bill helps to stem the flow of money to ISIS.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously approved legislation introduced by Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Bob Casey (D-PA) that restricts ISIS’s ability to profit from the sale of antiquities. The Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act already passed the House and now heads to the full Senate for consideration. Below are Senator Perdue’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “I’d like to offer a few words on the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act, of which I am an original co-sponsor. I’d like to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for putting this important legislation on today’s agenda, as well as Senator Casey, the bill’s sponsor here in the Senate. First and foremost, this bill enacts an emergency import restriction of archeological and ethnological material that has been removed since the beginning of the conflict in 2011 from Syria. A similar emergency import restriction was placed on such items from Iraq in 2003, and is urgently needed for Syria. We have seen in the Levant that ISIS has targeted cultural property for destruction, as well as for sale on the black market. The purpose for ISIS is two-fold—not only does ISIS gain money from sales of antiquities, but they also are purging society of pre- or non-Islamic influence. ISIS exerts a state-like dominance over the antiquities trade in the territory it controls, including a bureaucracy to control excavations and smuggling, and uses a variety of techniques to profit from these pillaged artifacts. In turn, these profits go to further ISIS’s reign of terror. According to some estimates, antiquities sales are ISIS’s second largest source of funding. This bill helps to stem the flow of money to ISIS, by limiting their ability to sell these looted antiquities to anyone in the United States. This legislation also includes a Sense of Congress that the President should create an interagency committee to better coordinate efforts among the agencies of the executive branch, NGOs, and institutions, such as the Smithsonian, who work to preserve and protect international cultural property. Since World War II, the United States has led the international effort to protect and preserve cultural property during times of conflict and crisis. This bill not only chips away at ISIS’s ability to profit from its looting of history, but also ensures that our response to protect artifacts worldwide that are threatened by war or natural disasters, is more effective.”
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Senator David Perdue Congratulates Georgia’s Newly Elected President of the American Farm Bureau Federation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. Senate congratulating Zippy Duvall of Greensboro, who recently became Georgia’s first president of the American Farm Bureau Federation. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Mr. President, we are celebrating a first in Georgia’s history. Last week, our state’s farm bureau president, Zippy Duvall, was elected by the American Farm Bureau Federation to serve as its 12th president. I join my fellow Georgians in congratulating Zippy on this honor and look forward to working with him in this new role. Zippy, as he is affectionately known, first became a member of the Farm Bureau in 1977. He is a third generation dairy farmer and currently maintains a beef cow herd and poultry production operation. To the Duvalls, farming is a business, a lifestyle, and a proud family tradition. As a dairyman, Zippy is accustomed to hard work and he will be a tireless champion for the agricultural industry. He understands the importance of a safe and abundant food supply for consumers across our nation and globe. Zippy traveled over 55,000 miles and visited 29 states to meet with Americans and discuss his vision for the future of American agriculture. He heard from farmers and ranchers across our country, just as we have in the Senate, that something has to be done to defend citizens against a runaway government. From taking action against the EPA’s power grab of our nation’s water, to promoting a climate of abundant trade, and supporting a safety-net, not a guarantee to farm prices, to pursuing policies that enhance the availability and affordability of all energy resources, I am glad to know that Zippy Duvall will be leading in these and many more areas. Agriculture is a strategic industry, not only for Georgia but also for our nation. I join our nation’s farmers and ranchers in the pursuit of a strong, safe, and abundant industry; our kids and grandkids depend on this. I am confident that with leaders like Zippy we can do this. Congratulations to Zippy, his wife Bonnie, and the entire Duvall family as they begin this exciting chapter together. Not only is this election is a great victory for Georgia, but also for all of agriculture. I look forward to working with Zippy and the members of the American Farm Bureau Federation to promote a strong, safe, and abundant future in agriculture.”
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Senators Isakson, Perdue Denounce Obama’s Move to Allow New EPA Land Grab Vote to override President’s veto of legislation to stop controversial water rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to override President Obama’s veto of a bill passed by Congress and supported by both senators to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing a massive federal land grab that will expose Georgia farmers, ranchers, home owners and businesses to significant compliance costs and new fines. The procedural vote to advance this measure failed by a vote of 52-40. “I have fought this administration’s numerous power grabs at every turn,” said Senator Isakson. “This ‘Waters of the United States’ rule harms not only property owners, but our entire agriculture industry in Georgia, and I will continue fighting to roll it back. Federal bureaucrats should not be allowed to assert control over thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches throughout the country.” “Today, I was proud to stand up for Georgia farmers, ranchers, and families and vote to override President Obama’s veto of the EPA’s power grab,” said Senator Perdue. “Since the Obama administration’s overzealous EPA announced its ‘Waters of the United States’ rule, Georgians have been outraged, and rightly so. Both the Senate and House acted to stop this rule, but President Obama continues to ignore the wishes of Georgians and the American people. Although our override effort was blocked by Senate Democrats, we will not stop trying to provide Americans with relief from President Obama’s blatant overreaches.” On Nov. 4, 2015, the Senate passed a resolution co-sponsored by Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue to prevent the implementation of an EPA’s water rule, known as “Waters of the United States,” and on Jan. 13, 2016, the resolution passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Yesterday, President Obama vetoed the legislation, allowing the rule to move forward. Today’s vote was an attempt to override that veto.
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Senator David Perdue Statement On Georgia Judicial Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement: “Considering a nominee for lifetime appointment to our federal courts is one of the most significant responsibilities I have as a United States Senator and member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. I take this responsibility all the more seriously when considering nominees to federal courts in my home state of Georgia. “After a thorough review of the professional and judicial record of DeKalb County Judge Dax Lopez, I have become uncomfortable with his longstanding participation in a controversial organization including his service on its board of directors. I am particularly concerned with his continued participation with this organization and his public comments after he became a state judge. Unfortunately, our personal meeting, while cordial and informative, did not fully alleviate my concerns. Furthermore, I believe similar concerns would be raised by many of my colleagues, making Judge Lopez’s final confirmation unattainable. “I thank Judge Lopez for his service to the people of DeKalb County, but I am unable to support his nomination to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia moving forward.”
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Senator David Perdue: Broken Immigration System Presents A Dire Threat To National Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued its visa overstay report, which revealed that more than half a million people illegally overstayed their visas which expired in 2015: “A visa entry-exit tracking system has been required by law for 20 years, yet it still does not exist. That is unacceptable. Today, DHS cannot even tell us how many people in our country have overstayed their visas. One of the first inquiries I made of the DHS was about its progress in collecting data on this very issue. Nearly eight months later, DHS finally released a shocking report that shows more than half a million individuals unlawfully overstayed their visas in 2015. Equally as shocking, the federal government is only investigating roughly 3,000 of those individuals who are here illegally. This number of overstayed visas includes hundreds of people from countries with significant Islamic extremist movements and confirms that our immigration system is broken and presents a dire threat to our national security.” During a Senate Judiciary hearing in April 2015, Senator Perdue asked DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson to provide the committee with data on visa overstays. This is a request many members of Congress made to the Obama Administration. Yesterday, DHS released its visa overstay report that showed nearly 527,127 people overstayed their visas which expired in 2015, including: 1,435 individuals from Pakistan; 681 from Iraq; 564 from Iran; 440 from Syria; and 219 from Yemen.
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Senator David Perdue Votes to Suspend Refugee Process & Keep Americans Safe WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement in support of the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act, which suspends the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until the integrity of the vetting process is improved: “ISIS has called on its supporters to exploit refugee programs and unsecure borders to attack its enemies. This global call to action and resulting terrorist attacks have Georgians and Americans concerned about their safety and the security of our homeland. This bill helps guarantee that effective safeguards are in place to prevent radical terrorists from using the refugee program to their advantage. When we are facing such serious safety threats, it is disappointing Senate Democrats blocked this effort and put political interests ahead of national security.”
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Senator David Perdue: CBO Projections Should Be Wake-Up Call For Washington WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) issued a summary of The Budget and Economic Outlook: 2016 to 2026, which projects more debt and less growth over the next decade: “Yesterday’s CBO projections should be a wake-up call for Washington. This is another reminder that our country’s debt crisis is well past the tipping point. Last month, interest rates increased a quarter of a point, which can cause our interest payments to spike by almost $50 billion. “With nearly $19 trillion in debt and over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities, each American family is responsible for nearly $1 million of this debt. Even more concerning, if interest rates were to rise to the 50-year average of 5.5 percent, the interest on the debt would amount to over $1 trillion annually, more than twice what is currently spent on national defense. “We can fix our national debt crisis and the broken budget process, but Washington’s business as usual mindset must stop now. It is time for politicians to stop putting political interests above national interests and finally adopt four words American families say all the time: we cannot afford it.”
01.18.2016	01.18.16 Senator David Perdue Statement Commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s lasting legacy: “Today, we honor the life and leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King. Dr. King’s actions to advance justice continue to inspire us all to do better. As Americans, it is my hope we will persevere and promote the peace Dr. King so courageously championed in order to leave a better world for future generations."
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Senator David Perdue Announces January Mobile Office Hours ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced mobile office hours for the month of January. Mobile office hours are opportunities for Georgians to meet with Senator Perdue’s staff members in various locations across the state. “Serving Georgians is one of my top priorities,” said Senator Perdue. “My team and I want to help all Georgians that may not otherwise be able to visit our Atlanta office location. We have field representatives based in each region of the state, and we are excited for the opportunity to extend the reach of our constituent services in the coming months.” See Senator Perdue’s January mobile office hours and locations below. To reach the constituent services team, call the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087 or find the field representative in your area here. Middle Georgia Monday, January 23 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Family Connections and Community in Schools of Glascock County 370 West Main Street Gibson, GA 30810 West Central Georgia Wednesday, January 25 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Roberta-Crawford Civic Center 96 Matthews Street Roberta, Georgia 31078 ###
01.17.2016	01.17.16 Senator David Perdue: Implementation Of Iran Deal Is A Grave Mistake WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and vocal opponent of President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran, released the following statement regarding its implementation: “President Obama’s misplaced trust in Iran is alarming. I am very concerned the Obama Administration is moving forward with implementation of its dangerous deal and sanctions relief when Iran refuses to play by the rules. As we learned from recent international inspection into Iran’s past military dimensions, Iran dragged its heels and stonewalled IAEA investigators. Iran has further destabilized the Middle East with its continued support of terrorist groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah, as well as the rogue regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Further, Iran continues to illegally test ballistic missiles violating multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions. “Yet, President Obama is rewarding Iran for these illicit actions with access to roughly $100 billion and suspending many of the most impactful sanctions on Iran. This is a grave mistake. It is time for President Obama to finally stop placating Tehran, punish past transgressions, enforce current international agreements, and develop a comprehensive strategy for the Middle East to stymie bad actors, not embolden them.”
01.15.2016	01.15.16 Senators Push President Obama To Punish Iran For Ongoing Violations WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter today to President Obama, U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Boozman (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Dan Coats (R-IN), raised concerns about the failure to punish Iran’s aggressive behavior and asked for a clear roadmap ahead of the forthcoming implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran. “We are concerned that Iran’s belligerent actions have thus far gone unpunished. As members of this body have warned before, a failure to enforce the rules is an invitation for further Iranian transgressions,” the Senators wrote. “To address these concerns, as well as to demonstrate to Iran’s leadership the consequences of further illicit behavior, we request that you provide a roadmap of what you consider to be illicit behavior from Iran, and what sanctions or punitive steps will be taken in the event of such behavior. Specifically, we ask you to describe what actions the Treasury Department is ready to take against those individuals and entities involved in the ballistic missile program and those Iranian and foreign banks that are financing it.” In the letter, the Senators ask for clarification about what is considered illicit behavior from Iran and what sanctions or punitive steps will be taken to punish the foreseen violations. The letter also asks for specific actions the Treasury Department is ready to take against those individuals and entities involved in the Iranian ballistic missile program and any foreign banks financing these efforts, to punish Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests. Finally, the letter highlights the need to retain the ability to sanction Iran for its non-nuclear transgressions, particularly related to ballistic missile tests, human rights violations, and support of terrorism. Implementation of President Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran is expected as early as this weekend. Full text of the letter can be found here.
01.14.2016	01.14.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Release of Guantanamo Detainees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the Obama Administration confirmed the release of 10 Guantanamo Bay terrorists to Oman: “In 2011, President Obama pulled our troops out of Iraq prematurely to fulfill a campaign promise and created a vacuum, which we’ve seen ISIS exploit. Now, at the end of his second term, President Obama is trying to fulfill another campaign promise that will further jeopardize the security of Americans. Releasing terrorists who have made it their mission to harm Americans, kill our troops, and attack our very way of life is incredibly dangerous, and trusting them to not resume radical jihadi activity is extremely naive. I’m furious that the Obama Administration is attempting to empty out Guantanamo Bay incrementally and circumventing Congress in the process. President Obama needs to stop releasing these dangerous terrorists back into society.” These transfers are part of a group of 17 prisoners expected to be released from Guantanamo this month, bringing the number of remaining prisoners to 93. Last week, President Obama released two Guantanamo Bay terrorists to Ghana. Last month, an al Qaeda propaganda video surfaced that featured a Guantanamo detainee released by the Obama Administration. This video comes after a recent intelligence report revealed that the rate of detainees returning to terrorist activity is increasing. Previously, Congress passed two pieces of legislation that explicitly prohibit funding for the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees stateside and prohibit funding for constructing or retrofitting any prison within the United States to house Guantanamo Bay terrorists. President Obama signed both bills into law.
01.14.2016	01.14.16 Isakson, Perdue Announce Students Representing Georgia in U.S. Senate Youth Program Students will visit Washington, D.C., receive $5,000 scholarship WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., today announced the selection of two Georgia students to serve as delegates to the 54th annual United States Senate Youth Program that will be held March 5-12, 2016, in Washington, D.C. Justin Deal of Dalton, Ga., and Meredith McCain of Johns Creek, Ga., met the rigorous requirements of the program and were chosen to be part of the group of 104 student delegates who will attend the program’s 54th annual Washington Week. While in Washington, the student delegates will attend meetings and briefings with the president, U.S. senators, U.S. House representatives, congressional staff, a justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an ambassador to the United States and senior members of the national media. The students will also tour many of the national monuments and several museums. “Justin Deal and Meredith McCain set a positive example for their peers and have earned this achievement through their dedication to servant leadership in their schools and communities,” said Isakson. “I look forward to welcoming them to Washington this March.” “Justin Deal and Meredith McCain have demonstrated they are worthy of this distinction and prepared to represent our great state as student delegates,” said Perdue. “I look forward to meeting with these young leaders and discussing the importance of public service.” Justin Deal is a senior at Northwest Whitfield High School in Dalton, Ga., and serves as the senior class president. He was also class president during his sophomore and junior years. Deal serves on the Superintendent’s Student Advisory Council and attended the Governor’s Honors Program as a social studies major and mathematics minor. He volunteers at the Humane Society of Northwest Georgia and the Whitfield Murray Historical Society. Deal plans to study constitutional law in the hopes of one day becoming a Supreme Court justice. Meredith McCain is a senior at Johns Creek High School in Johns Creek, Ga., and serves as a student council representative. She has previously served as student body treasurer, and is currently president of the French National Honor Society and the National English Honor Society. McCain is editor-in-chief of her school’s literary magazine, The Pulse, and is a member of the northeast Atlanta chapter of the National Charity League as well as Student Leadership Johns Creek. She plans to major in international affairs or political science and French. McCain’s aspirations are to obtain an ambassadorial position to a French-speaking country, and then run for political office. Chosen as alternates to the 2016 program were Lorna Chitty, a resident of Valdosta, Ga., who attends Valdosta High School, and Sarah Malik, a resident of Martinez, Ga., who attends Augusta Preparatory Day School in Augusta, Ga. The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates after nomination by teachers and principals. This year’s Georgia delegates were designated by Georgia State School Superintendent Richard Woods. Background: Each year, this extremely competitive merit-based U.S. Senate Youth Program brings 104 of the most outstanding high school students — two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity — to Washington, D.C., for an intensive week-long study of the federal government and the people who lead it. The overall mission of the program is to help instill within each class of student delegates more profound knowledge of the American political process and a lifelong commitment to public service. In addition to the program week, The Hearst Foundations provide each student with a $5,000 undergraduate college scholarship with encouragement to continue coursework in government, history and public affairs. Transportation and all expenses for Washington Week are also provided by The Hearst Foundations. No taxpayer dollars go to this program. The U.S. Senate Youth Program was created by S.Res.324 in 1962 and has been sponsored by the Senate and fully funded by The Hearst Foundations since inception. In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, the student delegates generally rank academically in the top 1 percent of their states among high school juniors and seniors. The co-chairs of the U.S. Senate Youth Program 2016 54th annual Senate Advisory Committee are Senator Cory Gardner, R-Colo., Republican Co-Chair; Senator Mazie K. Hirono, D-Hawaii, Democratic Co-Chair. The Senate advisory members are: Senators Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., David Perdue, R-Ga., Tim Scott, R-S.C., Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., Cory Booker, D-N.J., Robert P. Casey, D-Pa., and Patrick Leahy, D-Vt. Each year, the honorary co-chairs of the program are the vice president of the United States and the Senate majority and minority leaders.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on Iranian Seizure of U.S. Navy Ships and Crew WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after Iran seized two U.S. Navy ships and detained the crew: “Iran’s detention of ten American sailors is further proof that this dangerous regime is not to be trusted. These Americans are in the custody of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps, one of the most hardline groups in Iran. “I am concerned for the safety and well-being of these American sailors, and President Obama should be working diligently to secure their swift release. Let’s not forget that Iran already holds hostage four Americans who also deserve a swift and safe return home. “As we near President Obama’s implementation of the Iran nuclear deal, which could be as soon as this weekend, Iran continues to engage in dangerous saber-rattling. We need to see more from our Commander-in-Chief than empty rhetoric when it comes to Iran. The Obama Administration promised that this nuclear deal would lead to a safer world, not a more hostile one.”
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senator David Perdue: Washington Needs More Transparency, Not Less WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting for the Federal Reserve Transparency Act: “Washington needs more transparency, not less. An unrestricted audit of the Federal Reserve is long overdue and it should have garnered unanimous support in the Senate today. Our country is currently headed down a dangerous fiscal path, and it is critical that the American people have an opportunity to examine the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and its impact on our economy.” Senator Perdue previously co-sponsored the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2015, which would have enabled a timely and comprehensive audit of the Federal Reserve.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senator David Perdue Highlights President Obama’s Failed Economic & Foreign Policies Ahead of #LastSOTU WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today delivered a speech on the Senate floor ahead of President Obama’s last State of the Union address. Click on the image below or click here to watch the video. Transcript: “Tonight, President Obama will deliver his final State of the Union Address—a closing argument for his presidency. This president, who promised change, will attempt to point to his Administration’s accomplishments as many presidents have done in the past. This will prove to be difficult because Georgians and Americans have seen change, but in the wrong direction. When President Obama took the White House, he promised fiscal responsibility, but he is on track to more than double the national debt in his tenure. He promised to work together in a bipartisan way, but he used his Democratic supermajority in his first two years to force through Obamacare and Dodd-Frank on the American people. He promised to bring us together, but he has done more to divide us as a country. He promised to focus on defeating terrorism, but he created a power vacuum in the Middle East for those who wish to do us harm. There is no denying it. Under this president’s failed leadership, the American people have had a tough several years. Today, more Americans have fallen into poverty under this presidency. Too many individuals and families have seen their health care premiums and their deductibles rise to points where they can no longer afford them. Our national debt is almost $19 trillion, which is well past any reasonable tipping point. And we have a global security crisis on our hands that makes the world possibly more dangerous than any point in my lifetime. These are all symptoms of the president’s failed economic policies, as well as a lack of leadership in foreign policy. Even by his own accord, the president has saddled our country with an irresponsible amount of debt—which at one time he described in the past as unpatriotic. Before he took office, then Senator Obama reviewed President Bush’s tenure in office saying, and I quote: ‘The way Bush has done it over the last eight years is to take out a credit card from the Bank of China in the name of our children, driving up our national debt from $5 trillion for the first 42 presidents – #43 added $4 trillion by his lonesome, so that we now have over $9 trillion of debt that we are going to have to pay back – $30,000 for every man, woman and child. That's irresponsible. It's unpatriotic.’ These are the words of this president, Barack Obama. Let’s be clear. Under this president our national debt has ballooned from $10 trillion to almost $19 trillion. That means President Obama added approximately $9 trillion alone. Before President Obama leaves office, he will have added nearly as much debt than all of the other presidents before him. This is even more outrageous when you factor in how much revenue – or tax dollars – the federal government has collected. In 2015, we collected almost $3.4 trillion. This is more than any year in our history. Washington does not have a revenue problem. It has a spending problem, and it is focused on the wrong priorities. Equally concerning, this massive debt isn’t interest free. If interest rates were to rise to the 30-year average of 5.5 percent, the interest on the debt would amount to over $1 trillion each year. That’s more than twice what is currently spent on our military defending our country. It’s totally out of control and this is unmanageable. In reality, this debt crisis will only get worse because President Obama and Washington have not tackled the government’s largest expense – mandatory spending programs like Social Security and Medicare. This debt crisis does not only present a fiscal problem, it is inextricably linked to the global security concerns we are seeing today. In order to have a strong foreign policy, we have to have a strong military, but to have a strong military we have to have a vibrant and strong economy. There is no secret, throughout history, the countries who have had the strongest militaries and therefore the most secure foreign policy, are those who had the most vibrant economies of their day. But under this president’s foreign policy decisions he has created a power vacuum, and has put our country in a much weaker position. Today, our enemies don’t fear us and our allies don’t trust us. Just three decades ago, we brought down the Soviet Union with power of our ideas and the strength of our economy. But look at the world today. Over the past seven years, we’ve seen the rise of a global security crisis that is unrivaled in my lifetime. Over the past seven years we’ve seen the rise of traditional rivals like Russia and China grow more aggressive. We’ve seen North Korea and Iran collaborate on nuclear proliferation. We’ve seen Syria cross ‘red lines’ and terrorism fill power vacuums in the Middle East and around the world. Last week, North Korea claims to have successfully completed its fourth nuclear weapons test with a much more powerful weapon than they've possessed before. This is a sobering and stark reminder of the true consequences our country faces when our president shows weakness in the face of these radical regimes. And, not only have we witnessed weakness, but we’ve also seen this president naïvely trust a country like Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism today. Since President Obama announced his dangerous Iran deal in July, despite strong bipartisan opposition, Iran has actively accelerated its ballistic missile program, and continued financial support for terrorism in the region. In violation of the very sanctions we just heard on this floor. Iran has fired rockets near U.S. warships, fomented unrest in Yemen, taken more Americans hostage, refused to release an American pastor who has been held for three years, convicted an American journalist of spying, banned American products from being sold in Iran, and renewed its support for Hamas and Hezbollah terrorists. From the beginning, President Obama didn’t listen to military advice and prematurely pulled our troops out of Iraq creating another power vacuum. ISIS we know grew into this vacuum and sprouted influence not only in the Middle East but in Africa and Asia. Last November, he told the American people in a news interview: ‘We have contained them. They have not gained ground in Iraq. And in Syria if they'll come in, they'll leave. But you don't see this systematic march by ISIL across the terrain.’ We now know ISIS has not been contained in their ability to wage war against the West and will stop at nothing to deliver terrorism even to the shores of America. The president’s plan has failed, and we sit here today with no strategy to defeat ISIS. The world needs to see decisive action from the United States, not empty rhetoric that can’t be backed up. We need a new leader that takes every threat of any size seriously. Moving forward, nothing can go unchecked and unmet without relentless American resolve. No matter how you measure it, President Obama’s economic and foreign policies have indeed failed. Time and again, he has refused to change course when his policies didn’t work. When they didn’t help the very people he claims to champion. Instead, the president has created the fourth arm of government – the regulators – that are sucking the very life out of our free enterprise system today. Now, fewer people are working, wages are stagnant, incomes aren’t growing. The debt is soaring, and the world is much more dangerous than it was eight years ago. But, tonight, we will also hear from President Obama about his optimism for the future. Well, I get that. I share that optimism, but only because I believe we can do better, much better. We can tackle our national debt crisis. We can save Social Security and Medicare. We can defeat terrorism once and for all. But we cannot do it without bold leadership, however. We cannot do it without a sense of urgency and responsibility. We cannot do it unless the political class in this town, Washington, D.C., puts national interests ahead of self-interests. We cannot do it without the will and support of the American people. I believe in America, Georgians believe in America, and Americans believe in America. Americans have always risen to the crisis of the day, and I know we’ll do it again this time. But Washington needs to really listen to the American people, focus on solutions they support, and unite our nation to make sure our best days are indeed ahead of us. We owe it to our children and our children’s children. And the time to move is right now, the time for rhetoric has ended. We need to face up to the two crises we have today. The global security crisis, and our debt crisis which are interwoven together.”
01.06.2016	01.06.16 Senator David Perdue: We Cannot Turn a Blind Eye to Ongoing Ties Between North Korea and Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement regarding reports of a hydrogen bomb test by North Korea: “I’m deeply troubled by reports of North Korea testing a hydrogen bomb yesterday. If confirmed, this test will serve as another example of President Obama’s failed foreign policy. This is a sobering and stark reminder of the true consequences our country and allies face when this president shows weakness in the face of radical regimes. “In 1994, then President Clinton promised to ‘end to the threat of nuclear proliferation on the Korean Peninsula.’ Since then, North Korea has completed four nuclear tests and threatened to use their weapons against the United States and our regional allies at any time. If confirmed, this recent hydrogen bomb test means that North Korea has reached a critical milestone, possessing a much more powerful weapon than ever tested before. “It is time for unwavering American leadership and a change in President Obama’s failed policy for the Korean Peninsula. We must bolster missile defense programs and our military’s capabilities to deter further aggression in the Pacific. Let’s not forget, Iranians have reportedly been present at each of North Korea’s previous nuclear tests. We cannot turn a blind eye to ongoing ties between North Korea and Iran. President Obama must act now to stop these rogue nations from supporting each other’s nuclear weapons efforts aimed at harming America and our allies.”
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Senator David Perdue Calls on President to Reprimand Iran for Ruthless Behavior “Make no mistake - a failure to enforce the rules is an invitation for Iran to cheat” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is calling on President Obama to punish Iran for its recent violations of international agreements: “It is outrageous that President Obama has yet to punish Iran for not one – but two – ballistic missile test launches that were in direct violation of multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions. In fact, Iran’s actions have gone unpunished for months now. The Obama Administration’s decision to announce and then withdraw new sanctions on Iran is proof that this president is afraid to punish Iran for its persistent bad behavior. Make no mistake – a failure to enforce the rules is an invitation for Iran to cheat. “Since President Obama’s dangerous Iran deal was announced in July, Iran has actively accelerated its missile program, fired rockets near U.S. warships, fomented unrest in Yemen, taken more Americans hostage, refused to release an American pastor who has been held for three years, convicted an American journalist of spying, banned American products from being sold in Iran, and renewed its support for Hamas terrorists. “Neither Iran’s ruthless behavior, nor its relationship with America, are getting any better, and this litany of violations is likely to get even longer. President Obama should not provide any further relief to Iran until they are punished for these transgressions. It’s also time to start targeting the foreign banks that finance Iran's illicit ballistic missile program.”
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Senator David Perdue Statement on President Obama’s Latest Executive Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after President Obama announced several new executive actions: “President Obama is again attempting to use executive action to govern, only this time he is threatening the Second Amendment. Any changes to our nation’s gun laws deserve serious public debate and must protect the rights of law-abiding citizens. Understandably, Georgians and citizens across the country want us to do all that we can to prevent further incidents of mass gun violence in the United States. Unfortunately, by once again choosing to circumvent the people's representatives in Congress, President Obama has only served to undermine the Constitution and further polarize this issue.”
12.29.2015	12.29.15 Senator David Perdue: 2015 A Year in Photos WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today shared a look at his first year in the United States Senate through a series of behind-the-scenes photos. View and download the full gallery of photos here. 1) January 6, 2015: Taking the Oath of Office with my wife, Bonnie, and my father’s bible to represent the people of Georgia in the United States Senate. 2) January 17, 2015: Feeling at home during my ceremonial swearing in at the Bibb County Courthouse in Macon, Georgia. (Photo Credit: Todd Rehm) 3) February 22, 2015: Meeting personally with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on my first official trip to Israel. (Photo Credit: Kobi Gideon) 4) March 3, 2015: Listening to my friend, Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as he addresses a Joint Session of Congress. 5) April 3, 2015: Meeting with troops from Georgia who serve on the front lines at Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan. 6) March 14, 2015: Celebrating with Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny at the St. Patrick’s Day Parade Breakfast in Atlanta. 7) April 21, 2015: Chairing my first hearing in the Senate Foreign Relations State Department Subcommittee with Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia. 8) June 19, 2015: Snapping a selfie with a future leader from Athens, Georgia. 9) June 19, 2015: Championing conservative values at the Faith and Freedom Conference hosted by fellow Georgian, Ralph Reed. 10) June 29, 2015: Hovering over Hunter Army Airfield during a helicopter tour of Georgia’s military bases. 11) June 30 , 2015: Checking out the JCB tractor manufacturing plant in Savannah, Georgia. 12) July 7, 2015: Joining my friend, Joni Ernst, at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing to introduce one of Georgia’s avian influenza experts. 13) August 21, 2015: Energizing the crowd at Defending the American Dream Summit hosted by Americans for Prosperity. (Photo Credit: Gage Skidmore) 14) September 9, 2015: Fighting to stop a nuclear Iran at the Tea Party Patriots rally at the United States Capitol. 15) December 12, 2015: Delivering the commencement speech at my alma mater, Georgia Tech. (Photo Credit: Georgia Tech)
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Senator David Perdue Fights For Georgia Priorities Stands with Delegation to Protect Georgia’s Water Supply WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the passage of the appropriations package for the remainder of fiscal year 2016: “When it came to funding the federal government for the remainder of fiscal year 2016, I’m proud the Georgia Delegation stood together to advance Georgia priorities. The Georgia Delegation along with Governor Deal worked to stop the latest political attempt to intervene in our state’s water supply. Additionally, Georgia’s critical role in our national security and agriculture production was supported so we can keep America safe and Georgia growing. “However, after my first full year in the Senate, I can tell you Washington’s budget process is broken. The Senate made some progress earlier this year when we advanced a balanced budget that cut $7 trillion from the President’s original request and paved the way for the repeal of Obamacare. Unfortunately, Washington’s latest grand bargain, which I strongly opposed, abandoned those efforts and afforded no opportunity for a full debate on other critical issues. It’s clear we still have much work to do to fix the budget process going forward since it has only worked four times in the past forty years. “Above all, I’m committed to solving our nation's debt crisis and upholding my responsibility to protect the vital interests of Georgia. That will continue to be my focus as we carry this fight forward.”
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue: President Obama Should Not Reward Iran’s Bad Behavior Cite Ballistic Missile Tests in Letter to Administration Regarding Sanctions Relief WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called on the Obama Administration to not lift sanctions on Iran due to the country’s recent ballistic missile tests, which United Nations Ambassador Samantha Power determined violate United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1929. In a letter to President Obama, Senators Isakson and Perdue, along with 34 senators expressed their concerns over the Obama Administration’s lack of response to Iran’s blatant disregard for its international obligations and Iran’s willingness to advance their intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) program that could enable delivery of a nuclear weapon to United States. So far, the Obama Administration has condemned the attacks but has not followed these statements with tangible restrictions or economic repercussions. “We are concerned that your administration is failing to respond to Iran's dangerous and destabilizing actions out of an eagerness to see the Iran deal go forward,” said the Senators. “This approach toward Tehran undermines further an already weak Iran deal and jeopardizes our national security interests and the safety of Americans and our allies. For these reasons, we urge your administration to not lift sanctions on Iran that would provide billions of dollars in economic relief.” Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) led the letter signed by Senator Isakson, Senator Perdue, and Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX),Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Orrin Hatch (R-NV), Dean Heller (R-NV), James Inhofe (R-OK), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Mike Lee (R-UT), John McCain (R-AZ), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), James Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), John Thune (R-SD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Patrick Toomey (R-PA), Roger Wicker (R-WY). The full text of the letter can be viewed here.
12.14.2015	12.14.15 Senator David Perdue Urges Change of Pace in Fight Against ISIS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s comments on combating ISIS: “Today, President Obama continued to push the same failed set of tactics to fight ISIS. The President said we are hitting ISIS harder than ever, but neglected to tell the American people how he plans to destroy them. The President touted that ISIS has lost 40 percent of the ground it once held in Iraq, but failed to mention the ground the terrorist group has gained in Syria. His newly found sense of urgency to acknowledge ISIS as a serious threat comes too little, too late. What we need now, more than ever, is a comprehensive strategy to truly defeat, dismantle, and destroy ISIS definitively. My colleagues and I have outlined concrete actions that would provide a much needed change of pace in our fight against terrorism and I urge our Commander-in-Chief take these steps immediately.” Last week, Senator Perdue joined nine senators in sending a letter to President Obama outlining concrete actions to destroy ISIS. View the letter here.
12.11.2015	12.11.15 Senator David Perdue Applauds Approval of Upgrades for JSTARS Fleet WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Under Secretary for Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics approval of ‘Milestone A,’ the first recapitalization phase of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) fleet based at Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, Georgia: "I applaud Under Secretary Kendall's decision to grant Milestone A approval to the JSTARS recapitalization. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and our military leaders to ensure the replacement of this aging fleet stays on schedule. "JSTARS provides our forces with a vital battlefield management, command and control, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capability. The fleet, and the men and women who man and maintain the fleet, are a key component to U.S. efforts in the war on terror, deterring Chinese aggression, and counter-drug efforts in this hemisphere. We need to ensure this critical platform stays in theater. Our combatant commanders demand it, and our troops on the ground depend on it." This week, Senator Perdue spoke on the Senate Floor to highlight the critical role of JSTARS, and joined a bipartisan group of 12 senators in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter requesting that funding for JSTARS is prioritized in the fiscal year 2017 defense budget request. Senator Perdue visited Robins Air Force Base last month and received a briefing from members of Team JSTARS about the aging fleet and the team’s mission.
12.10.2015	12.10.15 Senator David Perdue: JSTARS Critical To Countering Global Threats WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted the importance of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) program. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Today, I rise to speak about how this overlap between our debt crisis and our global security crisis and how it impacts the future of a vital Air Force asset: the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System or JSTARS, as they call them. I just visited with Team JSTARS to hear about their critical role. We made a visit and talked about how their role effects our national security and national defense and countering the growing global security crisis we face. I’ve also seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, first hand, how this platform is absolutely vital to protect our forces on the ground in harm’s way. The global security crisis facing our nation continues to grow. First, we face traditional rivals, China and Russia, as they become ever more aggressive. The persistent threat of nuclear proliferation is now exaggerated and increasing every day with Iran’s efforts, and of course, we see what’s going on in North Korea as well. Finally, we face threats from radical jihadist terror groups—not just in the Middle East but here at home, unfortunately—and not just from ISIS—AQAP, Boko Haram, and al Shabaab, just to mention a few, are all thinking about how to do harm here in our homeland. As a result, we know that the need for American leadership in the world isn’t going to go away any time soon. Team JSTARS plays a critical role in our response to these threats. JSTARS is an Air Force platform that provides critical intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, or as they call it ISR, and ground targeting capabilities in service to all branches of our military. Over the past 25 years, they have flown over 125,000 combat hours to 5 different combatant commands. As a matter of fact, they’ve flown every day since 9/11. The ‘J’ in JSTARS stands for joint. Team JSTARS is a blended unit. The Air Force, Army, and National guardsmen who work on the team eat, sleep, and deploy together. These men and women leave for days, weeks, and sometimes they deploy for months to protect those in uniform around the world. Not only are they a joint mission with the Army, but JSTARS also does several mission sets. JSTARS does command and control as well as providing intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance. From stakeout to shootout, JSTARS is capable of supporting all missions in all phases, with full spectrum capability from low to high-intensity conflict. In the words of General Kelly, SOUTHCOM’s commander, JSTARS is quite unique and quote, ‘a true force-multiplier, working seamlessly with both the DOD and interagency assets, generating impressive results in our asset-austere environment.’ What makes JSTARS unique from other intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance platforms, is that on each JSTARS plane we have unique manpower at the tactical edge to talk to our service members on the ground with 22 radios, 7 datalinks, 3 internets, and a secure telephone. These are things we cannot take for granted. Our men and women on the ground talk about this incessantly. As I saw in Iraq and Afghanistan, we could not fulfill our mission without this type of capability, in the air, overseeing our men and women every day. As we see threats around us, from an increasingly aggressive Russia and China, the threat of electronic warfare is a growing concern. If satellite communication radios are targeted, if these systems are degraded by the enemy in any way, JSTARS can in-turn provide this same critical capability in theater. This is a reconnaissance capability we cannot do without. This platform has proven itself to be invaluable and indispensable to our armed forces—not just in the Air Force and Army, but in every service—the Marines, the Navy, Coast Guard, and even in some counter-drug missions. In the Pacific, JSTARS has been a key part of the Asia Rebalance, helping to maintain stability and assure allies by providing vital insight to maritime forces as they push back against an expansive China. In fact, as China continues to challenge freedom of navigation and asserts itself in the Asia Pacific region, PACOM is asking for more and more JSTARS presence, at a very time when their capability is declining. Also in Asia, US Forces Korea commander Gen. Scaparotti calls JSTARS ‘very important to us’ as he deters an unpredictable North Korea. And here in this hemisphere, JSTARS has flown in support of homeland defense, doing drug interdiction missions. As General John Kelly, the SOUTHCOM commander has said, ‘JSTARS is especially important, providing a detailed maritime surveillance capability that is unsurpassed.’ To give you a comparison, a single JSTARS sortie, a single plane, can cover the same search area as 10 maritime patrol aircraft sorties. But the future of this platform is in jeopardy. As threats against our nation have evolved, JSTARS has too but there are only 16 of these planes covering our needs worldwide over the last 25 years—16 planes. We have relied on JSTARS for 25 years to protect our men and women who we put in harm’s way—to protect them while other people are trying to do them harm. Unfortunately, in the last 25 years, these planes are beginning to wear out. They are reaching the end of their service life. These planes have been in service since the early 90s. But even then, these planes weren’t new when the Air Force acquired them. Each plane on average had over 50,000 hours when we bought them. The average age of the fleet is 47 years. If you look at just one example in the JSTARS fleet, there is one aircraft that had 16 different owners or lessors before it became a JSTARS, including Pakistani International Airlines and Afghan Airlines. I think it’s very ironic that today that very plane flies oversight missions over those two countries. As these planes near the end of their service life, they are spending more and more time in depot maintenance. And more maintenance, is more costly. Dramatically increased maintenance time is threatening aircraft availability and mission readiness. This in turn impacts the number of JSTARS that can be put into mission at any one time and be out in the combatant commands doing their job, while day by day, the demand from Combatant Commanders for JSTARS grows. What’s more concerning is that as JSTARS near the end of their service life –as you can see on this chart—there’s a gap. If we do nothing, we will have a gap of 10 years. The best we can do, starting today, is shorten that gap to four years. This is a gap we cannot allow to happen. This chart shows the declining availability of the current fleet down to zero by 2023. It also shows that under the current plan—pending DOD approval and funding--the replacement fleet doesn’t even start to come online until 2023. Meaning, we will have a 10 year gap. They don’t get back to full strength around 2027, again the 10 year gap. Due to the increased maintenance requirements of this aging fleet, JSTARS is already at a point where we only have about half the fleet available to fly at any point in time. Even if we extend the service life of JSTARS and accelerate the replacement, we can only narrow the gap to four years. This is unacceptable. I’ve talked about the planes. Let me talk about the men and women who man those planes, who service those planes, who keep those planes in the air. These are talented professionals. I have met with them. They are dedicated professionals, protecting our soldiers on the ground. They are committed to this mission but they have to have our help. The men and women on the ground in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world deserve our help. But when it happens to have a gap like this, our irresponsibility as a Congress and as military leadership, shows up. We cannot allow this to happen. Recapitalization for the JSTARS fleet needs to happen, and it needs to happen right now. As these aircraft age, depot maintenance is not only more costly, but also keeps these aircraft—which are in high demand from every combatant commander—from fulfilling their mission fully, and this puts our soldiers on the ground in mortal danger. This is precisely where we see our debt crisis and our global security crisis intersect. In the last 6 years, I’ve spoken about this before, we’ve borrowed 40 percent of what we’ve spent as a federal government. This puts in jeopardy our ability to support a strong foreign policy backed up by a strong military. As Admiral Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, once said the greatest threat to our national security is our own federal debt. The JSTARS program is an example of how our debt crisis is impacting our ability to fulfill our mission requirements. JSTARS recapitalization, which would replace these planes over time, is the number four priority within the Air Force. The other three priorities ahead of it are very valid, but very expensive platforms. Just last month, the Air Force’s acquisition chief, Assistant Secretary LaPlante said that the JSTARS recap might get scrapped thanks to sequester and a tight budget constraints. Again, this is a direct result of our fiscal intransigence and poor planning by military leaders. This prohibits us from meeting the very basic needs of our men and women on the ground who depend on this critical platform to protect them and provide overarching eyes and ears in the battlespace. This should not have happened. The intransigence of Congress over the last decade, the intransigence of our military leadership, and procurement planning are all at fault. We can fix this. This week, I’m joining Senator Isakson and at least 11 other senators in writing to Secretary Carter about the importance of funding for the next fleet of JSTARS in next year’s budget request. I’d like to thank the Defense appropriators, as well as the Armed Services Committee, for their support for this critical platform and mission. And, I look forward to continuing to work with them to support JSTARS. Not only do we need to ensure the new JSTARS fleet is funded, but this needs to be done fast. As I said, if we do nothing today, we have at best a four year gap. Not to mention the problem with the planes. What do we do with these professional military men and women that are irreplaceable? Pilots, navigators, engineers, technicians, mechanics, schedulers, computer experts. This is capability we cannot do without. Not only do we need to ensure the new JSTARS fleet is funded but this has to happen, again, immediately if we are going to eliminate this gap, or manage this gap. This gap in capability that you see right here on this chart will become a reality if the pace of recap doesn’t change. We need a faster solution. This chart shows chart shows just why this recap needs to be a rapid acquisition program, and we need to get on that immediately. We need to ensure that this critical platform stays in the theater. Our combatant commanders demand it, and our troops on the ground depend on it—and certainly they deserve it. We cannot allow Washington’s dysfunction to put our men and women in combat theaters in further danger. This needs to get fixed and it needs to get fixed right now.”
12.09.2015	12.09.15 Senator David Perdue Questions FBI Director About ISIS Link in San Bernardino Terrorist Attack WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) questioned Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey about evidence linking ISIS to the terrorist attack in San Bernardino: Click here to watch the exchange or click the image below. Senator Perdue: “Do we have evidence that this was directly connected to ISIS influence in the U.S.?” FBI Director Comey: “There is some indication that they were at least, in part, inspired by ISIL. So yes. We’re trying to sort out the what other contributions might there have been to their motivation, and we may never fully sort it out because human motivation is hard. But at least, in part, we see an ISIL inspiration.”
12.09.2015	12.09.15 SHRINKING WASHINGTON: Voting For Reduction Of Federal Control In Our Classrooms WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after voting for the Every Student Succeeds Act, which gets Washington out of our classrooms and significantly reduces federal control of our education system: “This bill will dramatically shrink Washington’s control of education. Georgians have asked Congress to stop the federal government from mandating one-size-fits-all education standards like Common Core and end programs that have bound the hands of our educators. Finally, this bill gives states and local school boards the ability to tailor academic standards to their students’ needs so they can help our children succeed. “Parents, teachers, and students don’t want Washington micromanaging their education decisions. As the son of two school teachers, I know there is still more work to do, but this is a significant step in the right direction. Our children should not have to wait another school year for Congress to take action.” Senator Perdue continues to fight for more state and local control of education. Watch the Senator’s previous video statement here. The legislation the Senate passed today: • Ends Common Core Mandate: Prevents the federal government from mandating or incentivizing states to adopt or maintain any particular set of standards, including Common Core.• Ends Federal Test-Based Accountability: Replaces the “adequate yearly progress” federal accountability system with a comprehensive state-designed system, allowing for multiple measurement metrics beyond test scores.• Replaces One-Size-Fits-All Improvement Requirements: Prohibits the federal government from interfering in state and local decisions to fix low-performing schools.• Consolidates 49 Federal Programs: Provides states and local school districts with more flexibility to spend money in ways that are best for their local student needs.• Reduces Over-Testing and Teaching To The Test: Reduces the cascade of state and local tests, which were used to prepare students for high-stakes federal tests.
12.07.2015	12.07.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on President Obama’s Address on Terrorism WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding President Obama’s Oval Office address on ISIS and the San Bernardino terrorist attack: “As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I have been calling for a clear strategy from the President to defeat ISIS and we still don’t have one. President Obama’s failed plan of containment is clearly not working. It is evident that ISIS is committed to harming the West and the United States must be equally committed to leading an allied approach to defeat these radical terrorists. We have called on the Obama Administration to do this repeatedly. Instead, the President continues to allow ISIS to thrive at home and abroad. How many more tragic events like the recent terrorist attack in San Bernardino do we need to suffer through as a nation before we see a serious and strategic approach to destroying ISIS once and for all.”
12.04.2015	12.04.15 Senator Perdue Statement on Crop Insurance WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding crop insurance: "After reducing crop insurance by $23 million in the Farm Bill last year, additional cuts should not have been on the table. As Washington often does it makes promises it can’t keep. In this case cuts to crop insurance were used to simulate fake savings in the Grand Bargain and then reversed by the highway bill. My commitment to agriculture priorities like crop insurance is strong, but so is my plea for fiscal sanity in Washington."
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Senator David Perdue: Highway Bill Relies On Washington Budget Gimmicks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the latest highway bill: “Our highways need to be repaired and critical infrastructure projects need long-term certainty, but Washington cannot keep relying on budget gimmicks that leave us worse off down the road. Georgians expected the Senate to spend the past three months developing a serious long-term solution that responsibly fixes our highway-funding problem. Instead, in typical Washington fashion, we’ve been given a highway bill that relies on mythical savings and includes multiple unrelated items that merit separate debate. We must repair our highways but Congress cannot ignore our country’s staggering debt crisis, and this type of governing has become dangerously acceptable to politicians in Washington.”
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Senator David Perdue Votes To Send Flawed Obamacare Law Back To President’s Desk WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after taking action to repeal Obamacare and send the flawed law back to President Obama’s desk: “Obamacare is a fundamentally flawed law that put our health care system—one-sixth of our nation’s economy—under government control and the consequences have been disastrous. The law has driven up costs, eliminated health care choices, forced rural hospitals out of business, created a doctor shortage, and failed to live up to the expectations promised to the American people by the Obama Administration. “Today, for the sake of our kids and grandkids, we are taking a very important step to repeal Obamacare and stop government-mandated insurance. The government should not be involved in our personal health care decisions, which is why we are eliminating Obamacare’s fines on individuals and businesses and finally sending this broken law back to the President’s desk.” Yesterday, Senator Perdue spoke on the Senate floor to highlight the Obamacare’s financial impact on Georgians and Americans. Higher deductibles – In the employer-sponsored market place deductibles for individual plans are up an average of 67 percent to over $1,000. Higher premiums – In Georgia, premium increases are expected to range from 27 to 29 percent for Alliant Health individual policyholders. Higher taxes – According to the Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare will saddle Georgians with more than $2.7 billion dollars in taxes over the next 10 years.
12.02.2015	12.02.15 Senator David Perdue: It’s Time To Send Broken Obamacare Law Back To President’s Desk WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted the failures of Obamacare and the flawed law’s impact on Americans’ health care choices and insurance costs. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise to speak today about a massive expansion of government that was fundamentally flawed from the start: the Affordable Care Act, or better known as Obamacare. In the past 100 years, we have had three super majorities, all Democratic. The first gave us the New Deal, the second the Great Society, and the third gave us Obamacare and Dodd-Frank. In many ways, these progressive, sweeping government spending programs have failed the very people they claim to champion – the working women and men of America – and together, they come at a massive expense to taxpayers and still continue to add to the nation's debt crisis. Right now, this law is saddling Americans with more than $1.2 trillion dollars in new taxes over the next 10 years. In my state alone, Obamacare is costing taxpayers over $2.7 billion dollars over the next decade. The Senate’s actions this week will help reverse the harmful effects of Obamacare and remove the law’s burdensome taxes on American families. When I’m back home in Georgia, one of the most frequent and sobering concerns I hear about is the insidious, negative impact of Obamacare—whether it’s reduced hours, increased premiums, increased deductibles, or just the mere fact that they can’t get the doctor they want. Now, I hear this more than any other complaint about what’s going on in Washington today. By enacting this law, President Obama and Washington put our health care system—almost one-sixth of our total economy—under government control and the consequences are disastrous. Obamacare has driven up the cost of health care. In addition, premium costs and deductible costs are up, precluding many Americans from even applying for coverage. The law has eliminated health care choices, forced rural hospitals out of business, created a doctor shortage, and failed to live up to the expectations promised to the American people by the Obama Administration. First, Georgians are seeing their health care costs double. Just this week, a headline on the front page of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution read, ‘Health care costs on the rise in 2016’ and ‘some Affordable Care Act plans seeing double-digit hikes.’ The article went on to describe the peril of a Georgia family that plans to cancel their insurance plan because it is no longer affordable for them, and this family is not alone. Deductibles, as you just heard in the prior speech, have risen to a point now where people cannot afford the health care plan that was picked for them. In Georgia, premium increases are expected to range from 27 to 29 percent for Alliant Health individual policyholders, and the problem could only get worse as more insurance companies exit the Obamacare exchange program. And, deductibles are increasing seven times as fast as wages are increasing. Last week, UnitedHealth Group—the largest health insurance company in the country—announced it is considering dropping out of Obamacare because it is losing so much money and the marketplace doesn’t appear to be sustaining itself. As a matter of fact, yesterday, UnitedHealth CEO Stephen Hemsley even admitted that joining the Obamacare exchange was, ‘For us a bad decision.’ He went on to say, ‘We did not believe it would form this slowly, be this porous, or become this severe.’ Washington cannot overlook this warning. Like my wife Bonnie and I, many people have already had their plans cancelled no matter what the Administration said, if you like your policy you can keep your policy. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. I can personally tell you that did not happen. A lot of people have lost access to their preferred doctors or were forced into insurance plans that cost more, not less.If UnitedHealth Group—the largest player in this space—exits, Americans will only have even less choice, not more. Aside from driving up health care costs and limiting insurance options, Obamacare is forcing rural hospitals out of business as well. Since 2010 alone, five rural hospitals in Georgia have closed and there is the possibility for more in the immediate future. Across the country more than 50 rural hospitals have closed since 2010 and more than 280 are in danger of shutting down. Each closure eliminates local jobs and Americans access to health care. Additionally, given the growing aging population, Obamacare is contributing to a dangerous doctor shortage. The Association of American Medical Colleges is predicting a shortage of as many as 90,000 doctors by 2025. Another survey by the Physicians Foundation found that 81 percent of doctors describe themselves as either over-extended or at full capacity, and 44 percent have said they planned to cut back on the number of patients they see, they may even retire, or work part-time. This further reduces access for people who need medical care. Finally, the Obama Administration’s promise of greater access to health insurance has proven to be totally misleading. In fact, almost half of health insurance co-ops created under Obamacare have actually collapsed due to their failing financial performance. This has resulted in hundreds of thousands of Americans scrambling to find sustainable health insurance for their families. And the ones that do find it, can’t afford the deductibles that as we have said, have risen dramatically. President Obama promised that his massive restructuring of the health care industry would give more people insurance, but in reality, the law continues to disrupt Americans’ health care at every turn, while failing to cover anywhere near as many people as its supporters predicted. I’m counted as one who signed up for Obamacare. I didn’t have a choice. My plan was cancelled. My access to my doctor was eliminated. I had no choice but I am counted as a statistic as one who signed up for it. Make no mistake, our health care system needs to change but one thing is clear, Obamacare is an ill-conceived law and is hurting people and our economy. It must be fully repealed and replaced. Georgians and Americans want access to affordable health care options and transportability across state lines. People want to keep their health care decisions between themselves and their doctors, and not have to go through a bureaucrat. There are commonsense health care policies we can debate now that would lower costs, increase accessibility and transportability, and restore the sacred doctor-patient relationship. It won’t be easy, but it is achievable. We need to start debating replacement plans now. There are alternatives to Washington taking over our health care system—almost 17 percent of our economy. Today, for the sake of our kids and grandkids, we are taking a very important step to repeal Obamacare and stop government-mandated insurance. We are also removing Washington’s tax on the very medical devices patients and doctors rely on to deliver quality care. It is quite clear this law was flawed from the very beginning. The website failed, access went down, deductibles went up, and premiums are still skyrocketing. The Obama Administration is in total denial and they misled the American people and failed to live up to the promises made during campaigns and afterwards. What further evidence do we need to realize this law—this sweeping expansion of the federal government that pushes more tax dollars to Washington—is not working? In order to solve our debt crisis, we absolutely must fix this health care crisis, which is why the Senate is eliminating Obamacare’s fines on individuals and businesses, and finally sending this broken law back to the President’s desk. Today is a momentous day. This week, we will actually have this vote. I urge my colleagues to put partisanship aside and to do what is right for the people of America.”
11.18.2015	11.18.15 Senator David Perdue Calls on Washington to Address Crises Immediately We are facing a global security crisis of increasing magnitude and this is inextricably linked to our national debt crisis. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today condemned recent terrorist attacks by ISIS and called on Washington to address our global security crisis, which is underpinned by our debt crisis, immediately. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak about our persistent global security crisis, but I also want to connect how our national debt crisis affects that crisis. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims’ families of these tragic events over the last three weeks. This week, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hosted the French Ambassador to the United States. In that meeting, we shared our thoughts and prayers with him and the people of France. More than that, we stand in solidarity with them, against these evil forces that manifested themselves on the streets of Paris this past week. The horrific ISIS attacks in Paris killing more than 130 people and injuring more than 350 innocent people – men, women, and children – serve as a chilling reminder of the threat we continue to face from international terrorism every day. Earlier this week, Russia confirmed it was indeed a terrorist bomb that took down a Russian plane over the Sinai Peninsula, killing all 224 people on board. Just last night, we saw two Air France planes – thank God, under a false alarm – grounded because of fear of some terrorist attack. In addition, ISIS has now claimed responsibility for twin suicide attacks in Beirut just last week, killing 43 more people. This makes three international attacks in three short weeks. ISIS continues to be a persistent threat to the West and to the security and stability in the Middle East. Unfortunately, as they have already said several times, these attacks only confirm what ISIS has in mind for the future. ISIS has been very clear about their intention to bring their version of terrorism to our own backyards, here in America. Indeed, ISIS even threatened Paris-style attacks on our nation’s capital in a recent video this week. Earlier this week, CIA Director John Brennan said he would not consider the Paris attacks ‘a one-off event.’ Director Brennan went on to say, ‘It’s clear to me that ISIL has an external agenda, and that they are determined to carry out these types of attacks. I would not anticipate that this is not the only operation that ISIL has in the pipeline.’ In light of the latest attacks by ISIS – beyond Iraq and Syria – I could not disagree more with our President who says his policies are containing ISIS. The President and his administration continue to underestimate this threat. They even called them a ‘JV team’ not too long ago. Despite the fact that ISIS has demonstrated its ability to perpetrate large-scale attacks beyond the borders of its so-called ‘caliphate,’ President Obama refuses to change this failed strategy. Beyond the fault of the President, however, fault lies here in Congress as well. Washington is entirely too often focused on the crisis of the day instead of getting at the true, underlying problems and solving them directly. It shouldn’t take a tragedy like this for Washington to pay attention. Again, the latest terrorist attacks only underscore that we are facing a global security crisis of increasing magnitude and this is inextricably linked to our national debt crisis. As a matter of fact, the biggest threat to our global security is still our nation’s federal debt. This is as true today as it was when Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 2012, Admiral Mullen, said the same thing. In the past six years, Washington has spent $21.5 trillion running the federal government. That’s so large, I have a hard time even grasping how significant that is, but what I can understand is this, of that $21.5 trillion that we’ve spent running the federal government, we’ve actually borrowed $8 trillion. With over $100 trillion of future unfunded liabilities, on top of the $18 trillion we’ve already built up, this is about $1 million dollars per every household in America. Every family in America today shares in this responsibility of about $1 million per family. We are so far past the tipping point, we may be at a point of it being unmanageable. If interest rates alone were at their 30-year average of five and a half percent, we would already be paying over $1 trillion in interest—that’s unmanageable. That’s twice what we spend on our defense investment. It’s twice what we spend on our discretionary, non-defense investment. It’s unmanageable, and we are well past that tipping point. Yet, Washington’s own dysfunction and gridlock are keeping us from completing the budget process, as I speak today, and passing appropriations bills here in the Senate. I might even argue, we may have seen the last truly voted upon and approved appropriations bill in the Senate because of the abuses of the rules that we see both sides have played in recent years. Only four times, shockingly, in the last forty years has the budget process, along with the appropriations process, worked the way it was written into law in 1974. For example, this year we have tried to get onto the defense appropriations bill that would fund the defense so we can go defend Americans abroad and we can defend our interests here at home against threats like ISIS. We are being blocked from even getting on that bill, which passed with a vast majority of votes in committee, to the floor for a vote. No less than three times have people on the other side of the aisle blocked it from going to the floor for debate, for the amendment process, and for a vote. And three times, the Democrats have voted against allowing us to get the defense appropriations bill to the floor, thus making it a political football. It’s something I just really don’t understand, not being of the political process here. We have these recent attacks from ISIS, and yet we can’t even find consensus here in this body to fund our Defense Department. William Few, the very first Senator from Georgia, in whose seat I serve today, would absolutely be appalled. He would remind us, in the United States Constitution, there are only six reasons why 13 colonies, of which Georgia was one, came together to form this miracle called the United States. One of those six reasons was to ‘provide for the common defense,’ and here we are, through dysfunction and partisan politics, not acting appropriately to fund the ability to provide for the common defense. I hope we can learn from recent events and get serious about tackling this debt problem so we can use that resource to fund our strong foreign policy, and we need a strong foreign policy to fight these threats abroad. But to have a strong foreign policy, we have to have a strong military. We proved that in the 1980s when we brought down the Soviet Union with the strength of our economy and the power of our ideas. But, we still can’t because of our own intransigence and this national debt. To have a strong military, as we proved, we have to have a strong economy. And that’s in jeopardy because of this growing debt crisis. To confront this global debt crisis, we have to get serious today. We have to break through, we have to get shoulder to shoulder and defend our country, which means we have to do the hard work here on the floor of the Senate and pass the funding so we can defend ourselves against these new threats. Now is the time, Mr. President, to solve this debt crisis so we can lead as a country again, to deal with this global security crisis and provide for the safety of Americans, wherever they are in the world.”
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Vote to Stop EPA’s Energy Tax WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the passage of two resolutions that will prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing new energy regulations that could raise the cost of living for hardworking taxpayers and turn back the clock on America’s energy independence. The first resolution of disapproval, S.J.Res.24, passed by a vote of 52-46 and stops the EPA from implementing its newest requirement that existing coal-fired power plants reduce their emissions by 32 percent by the year 2030. The second resolution of disapproval, S.J.Res.23, passed by a vote of 52-46, and prevents the EPA’s plan from being imposed on new power sources in the future. Senators Isakson and Perdue were co-sponsors of both resolutions of disapproval. “I am thankful for the Congressional Review Act that has given Congress the power to stop this unwarranted overreach by an administration that is set on pursing policies that kill jobs and raise the cost of living for hardworking Georgians,” said Senator Isakson. “I will continue to use all means necessary to fight these attempted power grabs.” “Once again, President Obama has acted unilaterally to impose his job-killing climate change agenda,” said Senator Perdue. “President Obama’s newest tax on coal would drive up energy prices and reduce the reliability of our electric grid. Affordable energy is key to attracting manufacturing jobs to our shores and outlawing coal would only make our nation less competitive with the rest of the world. For these reasons, a majority of states and a majority of Congress have told the President they are opposed to his liberal energy tax. It is time to put this onerous regulation back on the President’s desk and have him explain to the American people why he wants to unilaterally remove the backbone of American energy.” Background: The Obama administration’s “Clean Power Plan” released on Aug. 3, 2015, requires an even greater reduction in emissions than the rule that had originally proposed in June 2014, and demands that states submit a plan to implement the rules by 2016. The new regulations are expected to impact hundreds of fossil-fuel plants, including 600 coal-powered plants, and cause double-digit electricity price increases in 40 states, including Georgia. Senators Isakson and Perdue blasted the plan at the time, citing massive costs and no measurable reduction in emissions worldwide. They signed on as original co-sponsors of S.1324, the Affordable Reliable Electricity Now Act of 2015, which would delay the rule until legal proceedings from 26 states, including Georgia, have concluded, as well as give states the ability to opt out of the rule. Additionally, S.1324 would prevent the EPA from withholding federal highway funds if a state doesn’t submit a plan. Senators Isakson and Perdue also sent letters to President Obama and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy during the proposal phase in opposition to the Obama administration’s proposed Clean Power Plan and calling for the rule’s withdrawal.
11.16.2015	11.16.15 COMBATING TERRORISM: Clear Strategy Against ISIS Still Needed from President At this time, President Obama should stop any refugees from coming into our country…” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement regarding President Obama’s comments today on ISIS: “President Obama continues to miss the mark when it comes to combating ISIS. Coordinated terrorist attacks in Paris and around the world prove that the threat from ISIS continues to grow. These attacks demonstrate that ISIS has not been contained in their ability to wage war against the West and will stop at nothing to deliver terrorism to our homeland. “It is time for America to lead our allies in an aggressive and united coalition to defeat ISIS once and for all. The most effective way to protect our national security is to end the instability in Iraq and Syria before it reaches our shores. The resurgence of Islamic extremism and the growing Syrian refugee crisis are symptoms of President Obama’s failed foreign policy in the region. “At this time, President Obama should stop any refugees from coming into our country until we have assurances that effective safeguards are in place to prevent radical terrorists from using the system to their advantage. The American people don’t have enough information about the refugee vetting process, which is initiated by the United Nations. Our top priority should be to defeat ISIS completely and protect every American and Georgian, no matter where they are in the world.”
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senator David Perdue Strongly Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Paris WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks in Paris, France: “I strongly condemn the ruthless acts of violence the world witnessed tonight in Paris. Any type of terror, especially of this magnitude, against our allies will not be tolerated. All Americans stand with the people of France against such evil and join them in bringing the perpetrators to justice.” UPDATED INFORMATION: For Georgians in Paris needing assistance call 011-202-501-4444. Those in the United States concerned about loved ones in Paris, call 1-888-407-4747. Please monitor www.travel.state.gov over the evening for complete contact information.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senator Perdue Announces West Central Georgia Field Representative ATLANTA, GA - U.S. Sen. David Perdue (R-GA) today announced Kathy Burns as his West Central Georgia Field Representative. Burns, a small business owner and active volunteer, will represent the senator at events and meetings in 15 counties. They stretch from Muscogee County, including Ft. Benning, to Crisp and Upson counties. "Kathy is the ideal representative for the west central region of Georgia," Perdue said in a statement. "Kathy and her husband have been stationed at Fort Benning in Columbus five times over 26 years and she understands the needs of Georgia's military families. This unique experience and her compassion for helping Georgians make her a valued member of our team. "I am honored and excited to help serve constituents in this position," said Burns. Perdue's field team can be reached by contacting his Atlanta office at 404-865-0087.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senator Perdue Announces Southeast Georgia Field Representative ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced Blake Raulerson as his Southeast Georgia Field Representative. Raulerson, a native of Blackshear, Georgia, will represent the Senator at events and meetings in 27 counties including Screven, Chatham, Glynn, and Ware. “Blake is a sharp young man,” said Senator Perdue. “He’s a hard worker and I’m glad to have him as a part of my team.” “It’s an honor to work for Senator Perdue in Southeast Georgia,” added Raulerson. “Senator Perdue is a steadfast leader that truly represents our values.” To reach Senator Perdue’s field team please contact the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senator Perdue Announces Northeast Georgia Field Representative ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced Andrew Seaver as his Northeast Georgia Field Representative. Seaver, a graduate of the University of Georgia, will represent Senator Perdue at events and meetings in 25 counties including Clarke, Stephens, and Union. “Andrew brings a lot of energy and enthusiasm to the team,” said Senator Perdue. “Given his strong commitment and volunteer activity, I am certain he will be an exceptional representative for our team.”
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senator Perdue Announces Metro Atlanta Field Representative ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced Mark Smith as his Metro Atlanta Field Representative. Smith, a recent Morehouse College graduate, will represent the Senator at events and meetings in 8 counties including Fulton, DeKalb, and Henry. “I was excited to have Mark join our team immediately upon graduating Morehouse,” said Senator Perdue. “It is a priority of mine to represent every Georgian, and Mark’s ability to connect with young people makes this priority a reality. His knowledge of metro Atlanta makes him a valuable asset and I am proud to have him as a member of the team.” “I'm thrilled to work for Senator Perdue,” added Smith. “Georgians are ‎blessed to have a champion fighting for them every day. He isn't a career politician and that is refreshing.” To reach Senator Perdue’s field team please contact the Atlanta office at (404) 865-0087.
11.12.2015	11.12.15 Senator David Perdue Announces Field Staff to Serve People of Georgia ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced the appointments of his state field team to represent Georgia in the United States Senate: “Georgians sent me to Washington to tackle our nation’s toughest issues and we have selected a skilled team to accomplish this goal,” said Senator Perdue. “This field team shares my desire to make a difference and work together to represent Georgians from all parts of our state.” Jennifer Hayes, Director of Constituent Services and Central Savannah River Area Field Representative – Jennifer most recently served as Director of Constituent Services for former Senator Saxby Chambliss for 10 years. She is a graduate of Mercer University, and has enjoyed living in Augusta with her husband and two daughters for the past decade. Evan Karanovich, State Field Director and West Georgia Field Representative – A graduate of Georgia College, Evan previously served as the Special Assistant to Commissioner of Agriculture Gary Black. Evan is an Eagle Scout and a regular volunteer with the Boys and Girls Clubs of Metro Atlanta. Andrew Seaver, Northeast Georgia Field Representative – A graduate of the University of Georgia, Andrew has a passion for public service. He is an Eagle Scout and has volunteered for many local and state campaigns across Georgia. Beatrice Torralba, Northwest Georgia Field Representative – Beatrice is a graduate of the University of Maryland, where she was a fellow in the Rawlings Undergraduate Leadership Fellows Program. Her experience includes internships with The Heritage Foundation, Congressman Austin Scott, and the Perdue for Senate campaign. Blake Raulerson, Southeast Georgia Field Representative – Blake is a graduate of the University of Georgia. After graduation, he served as a Legislative Fellow and Special Assistant to Lt. Governor Casey Cagle. Charles White, Southwest Georgia Field Representative – Previously, Charles was the Senior Sports and Program Manager at Special Olympics Georgia and former Vice Chair of the Valdosta Lowndes Parks and Recreation Authority. Charles is a small business owner and currently resides in Valdosta with his wife and two children. Jay Smith, Middle Georgia Field Representative – Upon graduation from the University of Georgia, Jay moved to Warner Robins with his wife, Brittany. He formed the Jay Smith Insurance Agency of Warner Robins, LLC and was formerly a candidate for Air Force Officer Training School at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. Kathy Burns, West Central Georgia Field Representative – Kathy is a small business owner and active volunteer with several organizations including The Wynn House, Springer Opera House Board of Directors, Columbus Symphony Volunteer Association, and Santa’s Castle. She and her husband have been stationed at Fort Benning in Columbus five times over his 26-year military career. Mark Smith, Metro Atlanta Field Representative – Previously, Mark was a Policy and Government Affairs Intern for Governor Nathan Deal and the Chairman and Political Director for Morehouse College Republicans. Upon graduation from Morehouse College, he joined the Perdue for Senate campaign. Senator Perdue’s state office is located at 191 Peachtree Street NE, Suite 3250, Atlanta, GA 30303. Constituents can contact Senator Perdue’s state office by calling 404-865-0087. Find the field representatives full contact information here.
11.11.2015	11.11.15 Senator David Perdue Veterans Day Statement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day: “Together, Georgians and Americans across the country recognize the sacrifices our veterans have made for our freedoms. These American heroes answered the call of duty, fought in the trenches, and stared down the enemy. They established democracies, defended liberty, and freed others from tyranny. No one understands the true price of freedom more than our veterans, and it is our nation’s duty to preserve their legacy and fulfill its promises to those who have served. Today, we salute our American heroes and Georgia’s entire military community for protecting our nation and promoting freedom throughout the world.”
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on President Obama’s Plan to Close Guantanamo Bay WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, released the following statement about President Obama’s proposed plan to transfer Guantanamo Bay terrorists to prisons within the United States: “Transferring the world’s most dangerous terrorists to our homeland is unsafe and will unnecessarily put our communities in danger. These terrorists have made it their mission to harm Americans, kill our troops, and attack our very way of life. Moving terrorists into any facility near American citizens places a target on these communities—especially when these enemy combatants have access to foreign networks and funding. I’m also concerned about the potential radicalization of other inmates to further carry out their anti-American agenda. Sadly, this is another attempt by President Obama to put political promises ahead of our national security.” Today, Senator Perdue voted for and the Senate overwhelmingly passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which explicitly prohibits transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States, as well as the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which prohibits President Obama from building or retrofitting any prisons to hold terrorists in the United States.
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Senator David Perdue: It is Our Nation’s Duty to Fulfill the Promises Made to Our Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act and the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act: “It is our nation’s duty to fulfill the promises made to our veterans, and provide our active duty soldiers with the tools and training they need to succeed. Our servicewomen and men deserve quality health care, modern military facilities, and workforce training to help them transition back to civilian life when they return home. Our troops and their families have sacrificed so much to defend our freedoms and we will always honor and support their service.”
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Statements on Administration’s Rejection of Keystone XL Pipeline WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statements after President Obama rejected the Keystone XL pipeline: “President Obama has made the wrong decision for America by rejecting the Keystone XL pipeline,” said Senator Isakson. “Today’s action means that we will be missing the opportunity to be an energy-independent nation. The American people are still struggling in today’s economy, and they expect and deserve Washington to cut red tape to unleash America’s energy resources. This project would create American jobs, ensure America’s energy security and reinforce relations with our largest trading partner. Building the Keystone XL pipeline is an important step toward meeting these goals.” “Let’s be honest, President Obama was never serious about working with Congress to unleash our energy resources,” said Senator Perdue. “For years, it’s been clear the Keystone Pipeline would have jumpstarted the economy, helped lower energy costs for families, and created good paying jobs. President Obama’s politically motivated decisions put special interest groups and his liberal climate agenda ahead of working middle class families, and today’s decision to reject Keystone is no different. I will continue to fight to grow our economy and unlock our nation’s full energy potential.” Senators Isakson and Perdue have been strong proponents of the Keystone XL pipeline and co-sponsored legislation to force the Obama administration to issue a construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline within 60 days. Background: The $7 billion, 1,700-mile, high-tech Keystone XL pipeline will carry 830,000 barrels of oil a day to U.S. refineries, including oil from Alberta, Canada, in addition to 100,000 barrels per day of light, sweet crude from the U.S. Bakken region in North Dakota and Montana. During the construction phase, the project would create up to 42,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, according to the U.S. State Department. The Keystone XL pipeline project has been under review for more than six years, with five environmental reports completed to date.
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Senator David Perdue Seeks Action to Deal with Avian Influenza Threats Preemptive Response Plan Essential to Protecting Georgia’s Poultry Industry WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, joined nine senators urging Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to update the USDA’s Fall 2015 Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) Preparedness and Response Plan to address several important issues. “Georgia is the number one broiler producer in the country, which means one case of avian influenza could greatly impact our state’s economy,” said Senator Perdue. “Fortunately, we have not seen an outbreak this migration period. I will continue working with USDA and Georgia’s Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black, who has led the effort in Georgia on biosecurity, communication, and preparedness, to make sure Georgia’s poultry industry is prepared should we find ourselves dealing with the worst-case scenario.” The letter to Secretary Vilsack was led by Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) and signed by Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Richard Shelby (R-AL), David Vitter (R-LA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The letter is available here.
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Senator David Perdue Calls for Georgians’ Feedback on Proposed Trade Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) will begin reviewing the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement and is encouraging Georgians to join him in the public review process over the next few months. Earlier this year, Senator Perdue pushed for strong oversight measures included in the bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) to increase transparency, establish clear guidelines, and require a 90-day public review period before Congress even considers it for a vote. The full text can be found here. “Throughout this process transparency has been my top priority,” said Senator Perdue. “Trade is the lifeline of our economy and I will closely review all aspects of the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership to fully understand the impact it could have on Georgia and the United States. Given Georgia’s unique mix of goods and services, it is imperative that I hear your perspective so we can make sure our state and country are competing on a level playing field.” How trade impacts Georgia’s economy: • Trade supports over 1.2 million Georgia jobs.• Since 2002, Georgia’s goods exports have grown more than three times faster than state GDP.• Georgia is the top exporter of peanuts and poultry, and ranks among the top five exporters of cotton, tree nuts, vegetables and melons, and tobacco.• Trade-related employment grew 5 times faster than total state employment from 2004 to 2011.Source: Business Roundtable. Source: Business Roundtable.
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Senator David Perdue Introduces Georgia Forestry Leader In Agriculture Committee Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today discussed the impact Washington’s bureaucratic policies have on wildfires and forest management. Senator Perdue introduced one of the hearing witnesses, Ken Stewart from Marietta, Georgia. Stewart currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Trustees for the American Forest Foundation and testified about the consequences of wildfires for family forest landowners. “Georgia has more privately owned commercially available timberland than any state in the country,” said Senator Perdue. “Washington should draw on the wealth of knowledge from our forestry leaders like Ken Stewart, along with the experiences of family forest landowners in the field. Their voices and concerns are critical as we discuss the importance of keeping our forests safe.” “Wildfires, especially the catastrophic wildfires we’ve seen of late in the West, cause devastation to homes and lives and communities, wildlife and fish, and air quality,” said Ken Stewart. “The solution must address both the rising costs of wildfire fighting that leads to continuous shrinking of other programs and the disruptive practice of fire borrowing.” View and download the photo here and video here.
11.04.2015	11.04.15 VIDEO: Georgia Farmers & Agriculture Leaders Urge Congress to Overturn Controversial Water Rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today released a video highlighting Georgians’ opposition to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s harmful “Waters of the United States” regulation, which would expose Georgia farmers, ranchers, businesses, and landowners to significant compliance costs and unnecessary government intrusion. This week, the Senators voted to disapprove and overturn this burdensome regulation, sending it back to President Obama’s desk for reconsideration. The video features: Gary Black, Georgia Agriculture Commissioner; Zippy Duvall, President, Georgia Farm Bureau; Charlotte Nash, Chairman of Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners; Bryan Tolar, President, Georgia Agribusiness Council; Joe Hopkins, Past President, Forest Landowners Association; and Jake Carter, Past Chairman, American Farm Bureau Federation Young Farmers & Ranchers. Transcript: Zippy Duvall, President, Georgia Farm Bureau: “The EPA has gone too far this time and we need Congress’ help to overturn the Waters of the U.S. rule called WOTUS.” Joe Hopkins, Past President, The Forest Landowners Association: “Unprovoked however, for no reason, the EPA has decided that they need more control over our land and have done so by implementing the Waters of the U.S. rule with no clear objective. The outcome is not cleaner water but more and bigger government control.” Bryan Tolar, President, Georgia Agribusiness Council: “Agriculture is the largest industry in our state. We work on environmental stewardship practices every day. The changes made to the Clean Water Act by the EPA, it’s just a land grab, creating more rules for lawyers to interpret. We need some level of certainty in the regulatory environment for agriculture.” Gary Black, Georgia Agriculture Commissioner: “The last thing that [farmers] need is another mandate, another long reach of the federal arm of government down on their land to try to control every drop of water that falls on their property. That’s why I’m so adamantly opposed to and deeply concerned about this outreach of the federal government.” Jake Carter, Past Chairman, American Farm Bureau Federation Young Farmers & Ranchers: “Not only is the WOTUS rule just a simply ridiculous rule that would affect us here on our farm with the crops that we grow, whether it be strawberries, blackberries, blueberries, or peaches. It would tremendously effect the agritourism operation.” Zippy Duvall: “This rule erodes our private property rights for our farmers and ranchers across this country. It regulates ditches and low-lying areas that don’t even come close to the definition of navigable waters.” Charlotte Nash, Chairman of Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners: “If the proposed definition is adopted, over 2,700 miles of roads and almost 700 miles of right away ditches in Gwinnett would be impacted. Add to that, almost 1,500 miles of streams and another 1,500 miles of drainage ditches. You can see how much of an impact that would have on just one Georgia county.” Bryan Tolar: “Let’s let the industry be involved. Let the farmers have a say in the process and then come up with rules that always protect the environment but also allow private property rights to be first and foremost for our state and for our country.” Gary Black: “I’m delighted with the court decision to freeze it, to stay it. We’ve got to all work to make sure this is the beginning of the end of the WOTUS rule.” Zippy Duvall: “Everyday practices on our farm will be regulated by the federal government and EPA if this rule comes into effect. We need Congress to act now and help us stop the WOTUS rule.”
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight Harmful EPA Power Grab WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to disapprove and overturn the President Obama’s onerous “Waters of the United States” regulation, calling the rule a massive federal land grab by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that will expose farmers, ranchers, home owners, and businesses to significant compliance costs and new fines. The Senate passed the joint resolution of disapproval by a vote of 53-44. The resolution, which would prevent the implementation of the EPA’s water rule, will now head to the U.S. House of Representatives. “The administration’s ‘Waters of the United States’ rule allows federal bureaucrats to assert control over thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches throughout the country,” said Senator Isakson. “This rule harms not only landowners, but our entire agriculture industry in Georgia. I applaud the Senate passage of Senator Ernst’s resolution.” “Washington’s fourth branch of government, the regulators, originally put this rule in place with complete disregard for the negative impact it would have on Georgia farmers and landowners,” said Senator Perdue. “Thirty-one states have come together to stop this land grab and today we’re finally putting this harmful regulation back on President Obama’s desk for him to strongly reconsider.” Senators Isakson and Perdue also cosponsored S.1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would require a revision of the “Waters of the United States” rule to define clear limits and to take into account an economic analysis of the rule. Earlier this week, this legislation failed to get the 60 votes necessary to advance in the Senate due to opposition from Senate Democrats. Action against the EPA’s rule has also been taken by the courts. Last month, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in favor of Georgia and 17 states in granting a nationwide stay of the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States” regulation. In addition, Attorney General Olens is also challenging the same regulation in a case brought in the U.S. District for the Southern District of Georgia that is now on appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
11.02.2015	11.02.15 Senator David Perdue: Why I Voted Against Washington’s Backroom Budget Deal This Fiscal Insanity Has To Stop Right Now WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, explains why he voted against the backroom deal Congressional leaders made with President Obama that abandons conservative budget principles, suspends the debt ceiling, and uses budget tricks to spend more taxpayer money. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Late Monday night this week, Congressional leaders revealed a bad backroom deal they made with President Obama that puts unsustainable spending on autopilot and lets Washington politicians delay fixing our debt crisis for two more years. The reality is our national debt is more than $18 trillion dollars, right now. That’s more money than any of us can begin to comprehend and it’s only climbing higher every second. This backroom deal directly violates the responsible budget principles I have been fighting for every day up here. In typical Washington fashion, this deal allows insiders to spend more money today in exchange for empty promises of savings tomorrow. Further, what President Obama and Congressional leaders are considering savings are actually budget gimmicks and empty promises to hardworking taxpayers. Here are just a few: It spends now and hopes to save later. The Social Security Disability Trust Fund will actually run out of money next year. This deal shifts money from the Social Security retirement trust fund to the Social Security disability trust fund to allow it to survive until 2022, but doesn’t do anything to save the Social Security Retirement Trust fund, which runs out of money in 2034 – just 19 short years from now. Why would Americans trust Washington insiders and a system that has proven to be untrustworthy? Some insiders are trying to say this is only $100 billion dollars of new spending, but that is exactly the kind of thinking that got our country $18 trillion dollars in debt and over $100 trillion dollars of future unfunded liabilities. As you can see, Washington’s deal approves more government spending and this will occur immediately. However, all of the savings you hear insiders touting are back loaded and may never even occur because they can be reversed by the next Congress. This fiscal insanity has to stop right now. Congress should be working with a sense of urgency to solve our nation’s debt crisis every single day. It’s not going to solve itself, and America cannot afford to wait for a more politically convenient time for elected leaders to do their job. Earlier this year, Republicans passed a budget that actually cut President Obama’s proposed spending by $7 trillion over the next decade and finally balances, but this deal completely abandons that effort. Our long-term plan was traded for short-term gimmicks, trust fund raids, and even more out-of-control spending. This deal isn’t compromise, it’s actually surrender. I voted against Washington’s bad budget deal, because I’m not willing to surrender and give up on solving our debt crisis. It’s too important for our children and our children’s children.
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Iran Attending Multinational Meeting on Syria WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of the multinational meeting tomorrow about ending the violence in Syria, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement: “Completely removing Bashar al-Assad from power is paramount to the international community’s mission to defeat ISIS and resolve this dire humanitarian crisis. Inviting Iran to sit down at the table to discuss a solution for Syria is like calling in the arsonist to put out the fire.” Senator Perdue, a vocal critic of President Obama’s bad Iran deal, also expressed his concerns about Iran’s involvement in the meeting during the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing today. Watch his remarks here.
10.28.2015	10.28.15 Senator David Perdue: Washington’s Bad Backroom Deal Puts Unsustainable Spending on Autopilot WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today issued the following statement about the backroom deal Congressional leaders made with President Obama to abandon the Republican budget plan, suspend the debt ceiling, and use budget gimmicks to spend more taxpayer money: “This bad backroom deal puts unsustainable spending on autopilot and lets Washington politicians simply delay tough decisions for two more years. Congress should be working with a sense of urgency to solve our nation’s debt crisis right now. America can’t afford to wait for a more convenient time for elected leaders to do their job. “Not only does this deal increase the debt from $18 trillion to $20 trillion, but it also violates the responsible budget principles I have been fighting for every day. In typical Washington fashion, the insiders get to spend today in exchange for empty promises of savings tomorrow. Why would we trust a system that has proven to be untrustworthy? “Earlier this year, Republicans passed a budget that cut President Obama’s proposed spending by $7 trillion over the next decade and finally balanced, but this deal completely abandons that effort. Our long-term plan was traded for short-term gimmicks, trust fund raids, and even more spending. This deal isn’t compromise; it’s surrender.”
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Senator David Perdue: Hackers Pose Real Threat To Our Safety & National Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the Senate passed S. 754, the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015: “Cybersecurity attacks have become a frequent and often anonymous way of accessing people’s credit card information, internet history, and physical locations. Hackers pose a real threat to our safety and our national security. As a businessman, I understand how a cybersecurity attack could greatly hurt consumer confidence and force a business to close its doors. Since customers expect businesses to protect personally identifiable information, the Senate took action today to facilitate information-sharing between the government and private companies. This bill does not empower the government to monitor data, rather it allows private companies to voluntarily share information about emerging threats so they can protect and defend consumers. This bill is a much-needed step in improving our nation’s cybersecurity.”
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Continue Fight to Stop Obama's Energy Tax WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) have cosponsored two resolutions of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act that would stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing new energy regulations that could raise the cost of living for hardworking taxpayers and turn back the clock on America’s energy independence. The first resolution of disapproval, S.J.Res.24, supported by Senators Isakson and Perdue would stop the EPA from implementing their newest requirement that existing coal-fired power plants reduce their emissions by 32 percent by the year 2030. The second resolution of disapproval, S.J.Res.23, co-sponsored by the Georgia senators would prevent the plan from being imposed on new power sources in the future. “Coal provides more than two-thirds of Georgia’s electricity and supports 8,800 jobs in our state,” said Senator Isakson. “It was for instances such as this that the Republican-led Congress enacted the Congressional Review Act in 1996 under President Clinton, and it has served as an important backstop against executive branch overreach. I will continue to use the Congressional Review Act and all means necessary to fight against these attempted power grabs and job-killing policies by the Obama administration that raise the cost of living for hardworking Georgians.” “President Obama has created a fourth arm of government, the regulators,” said Senator Perdue. “When the Obama administration couldn’t pass cap-and-trade, they circumvented Congress and used unelected bureaucrats to implement their extreme agenda. These far-reaching regulations will cost Georgia jobs and drive up utility bills, causing a devastating ripple effect throughout our economy. Clearly, the Obama administration’s short-sighted energy policies continue to hurt the very people they claim to help, which is why we must continue to fight to bring some sanity to this overtly hostile regulatory climate. Instead of unfairly demonizing certain types of domestic energy production, President Obama should be working to responsibly utilize all of our God-given energy resources.” The Senate is expected to vote this week on the resolutions of disapproval to stop these economically devastating EPA rules. If both resolutions are enacted into law, they would nullify both pillars of the costly power rule even if portions of the plan have already gone into effect. Background: The administration’s “Clean Power Plan” released on Aug. 3, 2015, requires an even greater reduction in emissions than the rule that was originally proposed in June 2014, and demands that states submit a plan to implement the rules by 2016. The new regulations are expected to impact hundreds of fossil-fuel plants, including 600 coal-powered plants. Isakson and Perdue blasted the plan at the time, citing massive costs and no measurable reduction in emissions worldwide. They signed on as original co-sponsors of S.1324, the Affordable Reliable Electricity Now Act of 2015, which would delay the rule until legal proceedings from 26 states, including Georgia, have concluded, as well as give states the ability to opt out of the rule. Additionally, S.1324 would prevent the EPA from withholding federal highway funds if a state doesn’t submit a plan. Isakson and Perdue also sent letters to President Obama and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy during the proposal phase in opposition to the administration’s proposed Clean Power Plan and calling for the rule’s withdrawal.
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Senator David Perdue Meets Georgian Serving as U.S. Senate Page WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today met with Lakeside High School student David Brannon of Martinez, GA who is currently serving as a U.S. Senate page. “It is incredible to see vibrant young leaders serving their country,” said Senator Perdue. “David is a wonderful young man with a bright future ahead of him. I applaud him for a job well done and thank him for his time spent with the U.S. Senate.” The U.S. Senate Page Program allows students to witness the action live on the Senate Floor. Duties include correspondence delivery, chamber preparation, and carrying amendments and bills from one location to another. To learn more about the page program click here.
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Senator David Perdue Urges President Obama To Support Our Troops Our troops have willfully answered the call of duty and it’s time for President Obama to follow suit WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of President Obama's veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement: “Our servicewomen and men are deployed around the world to combat threats, adversaries and terrorism, as well as to support our allies. Despite this dangerous reality, President Obama is neglecting the needs of these brave women and men by not providing them with a clear strategy to combat these threats or the resources they need. Our troops have willfully answered the call of duty and it’s time for President Obama to follow suit and sign the National Defense Authorization Act into law.”
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Senator David Perdue Opposes Releasing Armed Career Criminals I’m unable to support many of the changes this bill makes to our mandatory minimum sentencing laws, as well as its retroactive nature. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Judiciary Committee, today voted against the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act of 2015. Senator Perdue supports responsible criminal justice reform, but highlighted several concerns with the current bill regarding reducing mandatory minimum sentencing laws and retroactively allowing violent offenders and armed career criminals back into our communities before their sentences are fully completed. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I’d like to thank Chairman Grassley and all of the sponsors of this bill. I’ve supported responsible sentencing reform since I came to the Senate. I remember the first week I was here, Senator Booker and I talked about this for low-level and non-violent drug offenders. The unfortunate thing is that this bill goes well beyond that. Great things are happening with criminal justice reform in my home state of Georgia and we need to do the same thing here in Washington, so I fully support the effort. Some of the Corrections Act provisions of this bill actually do that. Unfortunately, I’m unable to support many of the changes this bill makes to our mandatory minimum sentencing laws, as well as its retroactive nature. The first problem I have is that the bill significantly reduces sentences of violent, repeat offenders, not just drug offenders, including four-time felons sentenced under the Armed Career Criminal Act. I want to give you a brief example of what can happen on this side of the equation. Judge Easterbrook of the 7th Circuit recently wrote an opinion in U.S. v. Burnett. A case in which Illinois offender Albert Burnett was sentenced to a mandatory minimum of 15 years under the Armed Career Criminal Act. Burnett has an extensive criminal history and has been convicted five times for violent felonies: murder, twice for attempted murder, aggravated battery and domestic battery. And that’s in addition to his federal gun charge. If this bill becomes law, Burnett will be eligible for a five year reduction in his sentence. Contrary to a lot of misinformation out there. This bill goes well beyond low-level, non-violent drug offenders. I’ve always believed that we need to take a hard look at how we deal with non-violent offenders, and that’s why I’m a co-sponsor of the Smarter Sentencing Act. But let’s be clear, this is not that act. If it becomes law, this bill today, reduces sentences for armed career criminals under Section 924(e), serial violent felons and drug offenders who used guns under Section 924(c) and high-level, repeat drug offenders sentenced under Section 841. What’s even more troubling is that these provisions apply retroactively. We don’t have reliable data from the U.S. Sentencing Commission on how extensive the effects of these retroactivity provisions will be. But they will affect many thousands of violent offenders and armed career criminals. That’s thousands of old sentences federal prosecutors will be forced to re-litigate, which means fewer resources for fighting current crime. My decision today also takes into account the releases by the Federal Bureau of Prisons that are already happening, and the fact that many of our states are seeing a spike in violent crime and unprecedented levels of heroin use which has already been mentioned this morning. In the upcoming months, we’re going to see over 13,000 federal offenders released under the current activity. And if this bill becomes law, we’re adding potentially thousands of repeat, violent felons into the mix, because of the retroactive provisions of this bill. I can’t support this bill, though I do support the effort for reform for non-violent drug offenders. Mr. Chairman, I plan to offer some amendments later that will deal with some of my reservations.”
10.20.2015	10.20.15 Senator David Perdue: I Will Keep Fighting To Stop This Lawlessness It’s absolutely crucial that we stop sanctuary cities and address this illegal immigration crisis. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Judiciary Committee, spoke on the Senate floor today after voting to stop federal funds from going to cities that ignore federal immigration laws and harbor illegal immigrants. Unfortunately, S.2146, the Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act, was blocked from further action by Senate Democrats. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise tonight to speak briefly about the Stop Sanctuary Cities Act, which I was proud to cosponsor here in the Senate. Simply put, this legislation protects American citizens from criminal illegal immigrants. Today, at least 340 cities across our country are choosing not to enforce our nation’s immigration laws. These sanctuary cities have become a safe haven for criminals who are not only in the United States illegally, but also are committing additional crimes and repeatedly reentering our country after being deported. This summer we witnessed the tragic impact this lawlessness has on American citizens when Kate Steinle was murdered in San Francisco, a sanctuary city, by a felon living in our country illegally and who was previously deported five separate times. Three months prior to Kate’s tragic death, the Department of Homeland Security actually asked San Francisco to detain this murderer, but the sanctuary city refused to cooperate and released the criminal back into the community. Had they turned that person over to Homeland Security as requested, Kate might still be with us. This is unconscionable. I do not think I can overstate the importance of the Stop Sanctuary Cities Act to the American people and to the people of my home state of Georgia. The fact of the matter is Kate Steinle did not have to die at the hands of a seven-time convicted felon and a five-time deportee. Kate and many others would not have died if our country had a functional immigration system and a government actually that enforces our law. This is why it’s absolutely crucial that we stop sanctuary cities and address this illegal immigration crisis, which has also become a national security crisis. This bill would have done just that and yet, we were not even able to get it on the floor to have a debate. This is what drives people in my home state absolutely apoplectic. We want to get these bills to the floor, have an open debate, and let the American people see how we vote on critical issues. It is a very sad day indeed, when this body cannot come together to stop rogue cities from breaking our nation’s laws, protect the livelihood of American citizens, and support our law enforcement officials. I thank Senator Vitter and Chairman Grassley for working closely with the victims’ families and law enforcement to produce this legislation. I hope that we can continue to debate this and get this bill back on the floor. I will keep fighting to stop this lawlessness and protect all Americans.”
10.15.2015	10.15.15 Senator David Perdue: Iran’s Already Breaking Rules “There is no doubt Iran will continue to ignore the international community and behave like a rogue nation.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement in response to Iran’s recent ballistic missile launch and the upcoming implementation date of President Obama’s dangerous Iran deal: “The ink isn’t even dry on President Obama’s nuclear agreement and Iran is already breaking rules. This should not come as a surprise to anyone since Iran has cheated on every deal. Americans expect our nation’s commander in chief to demand adherence to all international agreements, instead of allowing Iran to act aggressively without facing serious consequences. This week, Samantha Powers admitted there were strong indications that Iran directly violated U.N. Security Council resolutions with their most recent ballistic missile launch. There is no doubt they will continue to ignore the international community and behave like a rogue nation even after President Obama’s dangerous deal is put in place.”
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Applaud Court for Blocking Obama’s Harmful EPA Water Regulation U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit rules in favor of Georgia, 17 states WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement applauding the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for ruling in favor of Georgia and 17 other states in granting a nationwide stay of the Obama Administration’s onerous “Waters of the United States” rule: “Halting this regulation until legal issues are addressed makes sense and is a good step, but we must continue our work to overturn it for good. Senator Perdue and I co-sponsored a resolution in September to overturn this regulation that is harmful to not only landowners, but to our entire agriculture industry in Georgia,” said Senator Isakson. “This regulation – one of many overreaches by this administration – would allow federal bureaucrats to assert control over thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches throughout the country.” “Today’s decision is good news for Georgia farmers and landowners,” said Senator Perdue. “President Obama’s outrageous attempt at increasing federal regulation on cities, counties, farmers, and private landowners should be struck down and I’m glad the court is blocking this blatant government overreach. Under President Obama, we have seen the growth of a fourth branch of government—the regulators—and I will keep fighting to rein in intrusive regulations like this ‘Waters of the United States’ rule.” Today’s court ruling is a response to Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens’ request for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit to enter a nationwide order prohibiting the Environmental Protections Agency, or EPA, from enforcing its “Waters of the United States” rule. In addition, Attorney General Olens is also challenging the “Waters of the United States” rule in a case brought in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia that is now on appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Last month, Senators Isakson and Perdue, along with 45 Senate co-sponsors, introduced a joint resolution to overturn and disapprove this onerous rule. Senators Isakson and Perdue also co-sponsored the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would direct the EPA to develop a different rule and consult with states, local governments, and small businesses. This legislation would also prevent federal agencies from using the “Waters of the United States” rule to control land.
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Senator David Perdue Greets Georgian Serving as Guest Senate Chaplain WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) greeted Pastor Charles Smith of Madison, Georgia, before he led the U.S. Senate in the daily morning prayer. Pastor Smith was the guest chaplain for Thursday, October 8, 2015. “It was a pleasure to welcome Pastor Smith and members of his family who came together from various parts of Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “I commend Pastor Smith on the skillful delivery of his message on the United States Senate floor and thank him for providing all of us with spiritual guidance. Pastor Smith and his wife, Jennifer, are truly servants of the Lord and their leadership continues to bless Madison Baptist Church and our great state of Georgia.” View more pictures here and watch Pastor Smith lead the U.S. Senate in prayer here.
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Senator David Perdue Delivers Opening Statement at Hearing to Examine Diplomatic Security Training Facility Proposals WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, today delivered the following opening statement at the hearing to examine the State Department proposals for a new diplomatic security training facility that is most cost effective for the taxpayers. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I’d like to begin by welcoming our witnesses, Assistant Secretary Greg Starr, Director Connie Patrick, and Mr. Michael Courts. Thank you so much for taking the time to come before us today. Hope to bring some clarity to that today as we move in the next few months toward a final adjudication in terms of what is best for our personnel and the taxpayer. We are here today to discuss the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) report that we have all seen that was requested by Congress, to examine two options for the State Department’s new consolidated diplomatic security training facility. The tragic events that transpired in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012 remind us that we need to prepare our Foreign Service Officers for the worst, and prepare our diplomatic security agents to take on any challenge while protecting sovereign U.S. soil and valuable American lives. Our civil servants overseas are operating in an increasingly hostile world. Just this February, State had to evacuate the U.S. Embassy in Sana’a due to increased hostilities there, and there have been others. This is ongoing every month it seems. Our State Department personnel are indeed in very tough situations around the world and we owe them the utmost in protection. Indeed, protecting Americans abroad is paramount. Our nation must ensure that Americans sent to serve our nation overseas are safe and have the skills they need to protect themselves from any threat. As Chairman of the State Department Management Subcommittee, and as a member of the Budget Committee, I am also responsible for the accountable spending of taxpayer dollars, as we all are. Today, we are here to look at the process for building this new Diplomatic Security facility. For those of you who aren’t familiar with the history, I thought I might just go through just a little bit of background. State’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) identified the need to consolidate training functions as early as 1993. State leases and contracts today 11 facilities to provide comprehensive high threat and hard-skills training and then there are 8 other facilities that provide soft-skills training, which a 2011 GAO report has found to be insufficient, ineffective, and that changes needed to happen. So this has been identified for some period of time. In May 2008, State came up with the concept of the Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FAST-C) as we will refer to it in the rest of the conversation today. This program was authorized and appropriated in 2009, when Congress gave State $70 million to identify and procure a permanent site for FAST-C. Over 2 years, State and GSA studied 70 sites and determined that Ft. Pickett in Virginia, was their best option in 2010. In December 2012, State put forth a full master plan for FAST-C with a price tag under a billion dollars, 900 plus million dollars. In 2013, OMB directed State to consider, as an option, augmenting an existing facility, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center or FLETC, in Brunswick, Georgia, which currently trains over 90 law enforcement and other federal and local agencies with hard- and soft-skills training. Before we go any further. If this hearing doesn’t do anything else, it confirms that God has sense of humor. The two facilities we are now looking at as the final options are in Virginia, and our ranking member Tim Kaine represents Virginia, and in Georgia, and I represent Georgia along with my senior Senator Johnny Isakson here. But I want to assure for the record, and everyone here, that we are all about the same objective, and that is this: we want to ensure that our personal are adequately trained to meet the challenges and dangers abroad. That is the objective function. And, the second thing that we are here to do, as part of our oversight of the State Department, is to make sure that we spend taxpayer money appropriately. That’s it, there’s nothing parochial going on here and I applaud Senator Kaine for the way he has handled this and Senator Isakson in the past as well. FLETC’s original proposal was $272 million, and State later reduced the scope of their plan—removing soft-skills, cafeterias, housing, medical, and recreational facilities. In the end, we’re looking at reduced-scope proposals with an initial capital cost of $413 million at FAST-C, versus $243 million for augmenting FLETC. Later, we will get into these numbers a little more, I’m just trying to hit the high points here. Per the request of Congress, the GAO has evaluated these proposals. Unfortunately, we still don’t have a true apples-to-apples comparison as we sit here today and we’ll talk about that more as well. What we want to get at today is the process by which these decisions have been made—that State went ahead on a major construction project and we’ve invested about $71 million in the Ft. Pickett, Virginia location. This full assessment, while it may end up being the right choice, I would argue isn’t’ a true apples-to-apples comparison against the original scope or against the revised scopes that have been put forward. Part of our hope today is to make sure that we all agree—or that the State Department will present—what that scope needs to be so that as we look at this outside group that’s doing this new study between now and December we won’t have to revisit this again. There is a delay actually, I think that project has been put on hold as I understand it, until we get this apples-to-apples comparison. And I applaud the State Department for taking one last look at this to make sure that we spend the money that is absolutely necessary. I just want to make sure again that we reemphasize that this is not a parochial conversation. This is about taxpayer money and the mission that we have with training people. The review today though is part of a bigger process about how we spend money at the State Department, and it’s not just at training—looking at embassy construction as just one other example that we will eventually get to, there are several recent examples that do raise concerns. Just this summer, our committee received a notification from State that the new embassy compound in Islamabad, Pakistan—originally estimated at $850 million—is now going to be the estimate overrun is now $87 million. The one billion dollar embassy in London is now $100 million over budget and it’s not done yet. And, in Papua New Guinea a $50 million estimate, originally, now has turned into a $211 million embassy in Papua. So it raises questions, as a business guy looking at this, and I know Senator Kaine with his background has looked at these things as well, overruns happen when scopes change, we all understand that, but when you see a continuous pattern it does heighten the need for oversight.”
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight for Georgia in Water Wars Dispute Call for Senate to strip language harmful to Georgia from Energy and Water appropriations measure WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today urged Senate leaders to remove language in the Energy and Water appropriations bill that is a direct attack on the state of Georgia in the longstanding legal dispute with the state of Alabama over water usage. The offending language was inserted into the appropriations bill by an Alabama senator. Isakson pointed to the harmful language included in the fiscal year 2016 funding measure that would give Congress the authority to intervene in the long-standing water dispute on the side of Alabama and against Georgia as the reason he will “passionately object” to this bill if it is allowed to proceed with the unfair language attached. Senators Isakson and Perdue both voted against proceeding to the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The motion failed by a vote of 49-47. Senators Isakson and Perdue argued on the Senate floor that Congress should not be in the business of taking sides in interstate disputes, especially in a case such as this in which litigation is pending. “Included in this Energy and Water report is language that was circuitously placed into the bill that would disadvantage my state of Georgia and show a preference to other states that surround us,” said Senator Isakson during debate on the Senate floor. “I do not appreciate the use of an appropriations bill to direct the actions of the Army Corps of Engineers to disadvantage my state and advantage another state without debate, without any degree of direction, and in total conflict with the court's decisions of the past. So I reluctantly will vote ‘No’ on moving forward on cloture until we remove this language from the underlying bill.” “As anyone can imagine, with nearly 30 years of court cases and 60 years of water rights issues, the line between who is right and who is wrong can sometimes get blurry,” said Senator Perdue. “But the fact is the Senate should not be intervening in disputes between the states. This is an issue that should be decided by the courts, and the Senate certainly should not allow one Senator to invalidate progress on a multistate water rights issue problem.” “I want to applaud Georgia’s Governor Nathan Deal for his recent attempts to solve this issue and hope that one day we will reach a resolution to this problem that meets everyone’s needs,” concluded Senator Perdue. Language is included in the 2016 Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Bill that would prevent the Army Corps of Engineers from addressing Georgia’s water supply needs in the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Basin. The “reallocation” prohibited by this language has been central to an interstate dispute between Georgia and Alabama since 1990, when Alabama first sued to prevent Georgia from reallocating water within the basin. That lawsuit was dismissed as baseless in 2012 after 22 years of litigation. Currently, Georgia has a case pending before the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia that would require the Army Corps of Engineers to reallocate water based on Georgia’s water supply needs.
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Senator David Perdue Urges Colleagues to Provide for the Common Defense “We absolutely must maintain a military force so strong that no enemy in its right mind would challenge us, and those who dare, have no hope in defeating us.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations and Budget Committees, today called on his colleagues to move forward with funding our military and send the National Defense Authorization Act to President Obama’s desk for a signature. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). I strongly urge my colleagues in this body to vote for the NDAA, and to send it to the President’s desk for signature and let’s move to funding our military. The threats to our nation have perhaps never been greater or more complex in my entire life. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I am given daily briefs on what I believe is an emerging global security crisis. This administration just completed a nuclear deal with Iran that stokes the fears of our friends and allies in the region and releases tens of billions in sanctions relief to a regime that is the world’s worst state sponsor of terrorism. We’ve had to bolster our support to allies in the region in the attempt to mitigate the impact of further Iranian spending to support Assad in Syria, Houthi rebels in Yemen, Hezbollah, Hammas, and terrorism worldwide. We’ve seen the astonishing rise of ISIS, as they’ve taken advantage of the power vacuum we left behind by prematurely withdrawing our troops from Iraq. I’d hate to see history repeat itself in Afghanistan, which is actually being discussed as we speak today. Meanwhile, traditional rivals are aggressively posturing on two other fronts. China is antagonizing our allies in the Pacific Rim, and Russia is testing the resolve of the NATO alliance, blatantly grabbing sovereign territory in Ukraine, Crimea, and injecting troops, and war material into Syria. At the same time as we see an increase in symmetric and asymmetric threats, we are headed in a direction where we are about to have the smallest Army since World War II, smallest Navy since World War I, and smallest Air Force ever. Meanwhile, the Chinese alone are rapidly expanding their investment in their military and their forces in the Asia-Pacific region, and are set to double their defense budget by 2020. As a matter of fact, I was recently at U.S. Pacific Command headquarters, where I was briefed on the developments of U.S. forces in the Asia-Pacific in comparison directly with those of China. This is very alarming. In 1999, the U.S. military had a dominant and protective position in the Asia-Pacific region totally capable of protecting our interests. Today, however, China has reached military parity in the region. What’s really troubling are the projections for 2020, in which China’s relative combat power and presence in the region will be significantly be more dominant than that of the United States. This is why we need to ensure we continue funding our military at the appropriate levels. We need to ensure that our brave servicemen and women have the tools, training, and technology they need to meet the current threats we face on a daily basis, but also to tackle what’s coming in the future. This year’s NDAA reinforces the mission against ISIS and Operation Inherent Resolve. It provides assistance and sustainment to the military and national security forces of Ukraine—including the authority for lethal aid to Ukraine for defensive purposes. And, this NDAA fills critical gaps in readiness, ensuring that our servicemen and women meet their training requirements and have mission-capable equipment. The convergence of our fiscal debt crisis and our global security crisis is indeed a sobering reality and they must be solved simultaneously. In order to have a strong foreign policy though, we have to have a strong military, and to have a strong military, we have to strong economy. We have to solve our debt crisis at the same time though to continue to dominate militarily. As former Joint Chief of Staff Chairman Admiral Mullen once said, ‘the most significant threat to our national security is our debt.’ That fact still rings true today. Having recently visited our troops and military leaders in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, I can tell you the best, the very best of America, is in uniform around the world in our military, putting their lives in jeopardy every day to protect our freedoms here at home. Our military is made up of some of the finest, smartest, and bravest people I have ever met. They’re true American heroes committed to defending our freedom. They deserve our unwavering support. One of the six reasons why 13 colonies came together in the beginning of our country to form this nation, as enshrined in our Constitution, was to ‘provide for the common defense.’ As George Washington said, ‘to be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace.’ Indeed, as we’ve learned over and over, maintaining a strong national defense can actually deter aggression. We absolutely must maintain a military force so strong that no enemy in its right mind would challenge us, and those who dare, have no hope of defeating us.”
10.06.2015	10.06.15 Senators Johnny Isakson, David Perdue Request Audit of All Fetal Tissue Research Continue Fight To Investigate Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) joined 33 senators in sending a letter to the Obama administration requesting an audit of all fetal tissue research funded or conducted by the administration to determine compliance with the law. Federal laws make it illegal to knowingly acquire, receive, or accept a donation of human fetal tissue for valuable consideration. “The Planned Parenthood videos recently released by the Center for Medical Progress raise serious concerns about potential violations of federal law prohibiting the transfer of fetal tissue for valuable consideration,” write the senators in the letter to the Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services. “The Department does not appear to have conducted any internal investigation of their own research practices or any audits or other oversight of their contractors, suppliers, and grantees with regard to their compliance with fetal tissue research laws and instead relied on assertions of compliance.” This letter is part of an ongoing effort to investigate the allegations raised in the recently released videos from the Center for Medical Progress that bring into question the legality of fetal tissue transfer practices at Planned Parenthood and, potentially, other abortion providers. Senators Isakson and Perdue have also co-sponsored legislation that prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood and voted multiple times to protect innocent lives. Joining Senators Isakson and Perdue on the letter led by Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) were Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Thad Cochran (R-MS), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rob Portman (R-OH), James Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), John Thune (R-SD), David Vitter (R-LA), Roger Wicker (R-MS). The full letter can be found here.
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Senator David Perdue Calls on Senate Democrats to Stop Obstructing Veterans Bill “Our veterans sacrificed so much for our freedom...We cannot fail them” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, today called on Senate Democrats to stop obstructing debate for H.R. 2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, one of the 12 critical appropriations bills Congress must pass to responsibly fund the federal government. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak about the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. I’m very encouraged this bill has finally come to the floor of the United States Senate. I also would like to remind my colleagues that the Senate Appropriations Committee has put forward 12 appropriations bills that reflect the priorities of the American people and the budget we passed back in April. Let me remind my colleagues, that budget took $7 trillion dollars out of President Obama’s proposed budget over the next ten years, and yet, here we are today in October facing the reality that since April we have not been able to debate, on this floor, those 12 appropriations bills. You have heard all year that we need to get back to regular order—and that means the Senate needs to bring up and debate each of these 12 bills individually. However, due to Democratic obstructionism, the federal government is operating under a short-term funding measure and the Senate has not been able to debate any of these 12 funding bills. It is time for the political posturing to stop. People back home don’t understand. I don’t either. Senate Democrats are again acting as a roadblock and preventing progress. The American people sent us up here to govern responsibly and it is time for Senate Democrats to start living up to this expectation, particularly when it comes to funding our government. In this vote today, Senate Democrats are blocking us from moving forward with a bill to fund military construction projects that help our troops and support key veterans programs, many of which need reform after being plagued by backlogs and scandals for years. We must make good on our nation’s promise to our veterans and provide our troops with the facilities they need to work, train, and fulfill the mission of the United States Armed Forces. Senate Democrats just voted against improvements to the VA electronic health records system so that veterans’ records are safely and seamlessly accessed among agencies and the private sector. They just voted against increased transparency for the VA disability claims system to reduce the backlog for those veterans who need help the most. They just voted against much-needed oversight of VA construction projects, like the VA hospital in Aurora, Colorado that is over $1 billion dollars over budget. Additionally, they just voted against construction of the second missile defense site in Poland, a project that is an important deterrent against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe and had been previously scrapped by President Obama. Our nation is currently dealing with a global security crisis. We must take recent Russian aggressions and take the rise of great power rivals very seriously. Just yesterday, Russia launched airstrikes in Syria to prop up President Bashar al-Assad in a strategy our own Defense Secretary, Ash Carter, described as counterproductive and equated to ‘pouring gasoline on the fire.’ Clearly, we must make sure our troops have the resources they need to protect our country. Because of that, I am shocked my colleagues across the aisle just voted to delay construction for our military facilities—facilities our troops depend on to train for current conflicts, and to prepare for whatever the future holds. Most appalling of all, Senate Democrats voted today to block this bill even after we’ve learned that many of our veterans, tens of thousands of our veterans, have died while waiting for the care they need and deserve. This is unconscionable and the brinkmanship we are seeing from Senate Democrats is unacceptable. Our veterans sacrificed so much for our freedom, and our servicemen and women are currently putting their lives in jeopardy every day for us, and our families. We cannot fail them. This bipartisan funding bill does a lot of important things for our nation, but most importantly it supports our American heroes. Like most of my colleagues, I have traveled this year and met with our fighting women and men on front lines. The best, the very best, of America is in uniform today and they deserve our full support. Today, I call on my colleagues across the aisle to stop blocking these important bills. Let’s get them on the floor and negotiate—compromise if we have to—but get to a conclusion where we can fund the men and women defending our freedom. We now have 72 days to return to regular order and debate these important appropriations bills so the priorities of our veterans, our military, and the American people can once and for all be restored. I sincerely hope that all of my colleagues in this body will not disappoint the American people yet again.”
09.28.2015	09.28.15 Senator David Perdue: Fighting For Long-Term Plan That Responsibly Solves Our Debt Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate agreed to advance legislation that will keep the government funded and allow more time to debate and approve appropriation bills for the coming fiscal year: “Today, I supported the Senate’s short-term measure to responsibly keep the federal government functioning so we can continue working to solve Washington’s spending crisis, despite political brinkmanship from Senate Democrats. In my first days in the Senate, I worked to achieve a balanced budget that set clear priorities and outlined conservative principles. The Senate then produced 12 appropriations bills to put those conservative principles into action. However, Senate Democrats have blocked debate of these budget bills every step of the way, preventing the funding process from even going forward. “Washington is always reacting to deadlines or crises as if Congress has been kept in the dark. We have known all along the end of the fiscal year was coming and we have known that Planned Parenthood was using taxpayer dollars to brutally take the lives of unborn children. These two issues should have been dealt with individually months ago. I will continue to protect all life as I have in the past, but I am also focused on bringing sanity to the budget and appropriations process. “This is certainly not the end of the appropriations process, but it should not have been the beginning either. This interim step of passing a continuing resolution gives Congress additional time to act responsibly. My role as a member of the Senate Budget Committee is to continue to fight for a long-term plan that responsibly solves our debt crisis. Individuals cannot spend more than they take in and neither can the federal government. Since President Obama took office, Washington has spent $21.5 trillion dollars funding the federal government, and borrowed $8 trillion of that money. We simply cannot continue to do that.”
09.24.2015	09.24.15 Senator David Perdue: Irresponsible Governing Must Stop Now WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked a vote to advance a continuing resolution that would fund the federal government until December 11, 2015 and end taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood: “Today, I voted to temporarily fund the federal government and protect life by ending taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood. Yet again, Senate Democrats have ignored the will of Georgians and the American people. In recent weeks, Senate Democrats blocked a bipartisan vote against the dangerous Iran nuclear deal to defend President Obama's legacy and blocked a defense appropriations bill preventing funding for our military. Now, Senate Democrats have chosen to block a bill that would responsibly keep the federal government functioning so they can protect Planned Parenthood. This is reckless behavior and Georgians are fed up with these childish antics. I am too. The Senate’s structure requires bipartisan cooperation and without it, Washington cannot continue down this unsustainable path. It is time for the political brinkmanship to stop and cooperation to start. Putting politics over practicality and protecting President Obama's legacy instead of the American people’s priorities is irresponsible governing and it must stop now.”
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Senator David Perdue Rebukes Senate Democrats For Blocking Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, today rebuked Senate Democrats for preventing the Senate from considering H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, one of the twelve critical appropriations bills Congress must pass to responsibly fund the federal government. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Briefly, I want to thank the Majority Leader for bringing the defense appropriations bill to the floor for a vote and remind everyone that the Senate Appropriations Committee has put forward 12 appropriations bills that adhere to the Republican Budget, and that reflect the priorities of the American people. You’ve heard all year that we need to get back to regular order—and that means that we need to bring up and debate each of these twelve bills individually. It is clear, after two votes, that Democratic obstructionism to the defense appropriations bill will prevent us from funding our servicemen and women. So, my colleagues across the aisle are voting against supplying the military with the tools to stop ISIS. They’re voting against the much-needed upgrades to our missile defense programs. They’re voting against increasing missile defense support to Israel. And they are voting against restoring readiness to our military. The demands on our military are great. The threats that we face today as a nation are numerous, complex, and may be, the most dangerous in my lifetime. Those who volunteer to defend our great nation against these threats rely on us to meet these obligations as Senators. Congress is responsible for ensuring that American servicemen and women have the tools they need to do their jobs and remain safe. But today, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have done our nation a great disservice. By failing to bring up the defense appropriations bill, Democrats aren’t letting us do our job. That’s dangerous. We need to return to regular order, vote on these appropriations bills so that the priorities of the American people can once and for all be restored.”
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Vote to Protect Innocent Lives WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., today voted in favor of legislation they co-sponsored to protect innocent lives. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would prevent late-term abortions for any reason except to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest after 20 weeks of development, or five months, the point at which medical science has said unborn children can feel pain. Currently, America is only one of seven nations to allow late-term, elective abortions after 20 weeks. Unfortunately, the House-passed bill, H.R.36, failed to get the required 60 votes necessary to advance the bill in the Senate because of opposition from Senate Democrats. “As a grandfather and a pro-life conservative, I am deeply disappointed that this important legislation to protect the innocent lives of the unborn failed today,” said Senator Isakson. “A compassionate nation should protect those who cannot help themselves. No one is more vulnerable than the unborn children we seek to protect.” “I am extremely disappointed that protecting unborn babies from unimaginable pain failed to get enough support in the United States Senate today,” said Senator Perdue. “This should not be a subject of debate. It is our duty to protect the innocent and the most vulnerable among us, especially the unborn. Every child is a blessing and I will keep working to promote a culture that values all life.”
09.21.2015	09.21.15 Senator David Perdue: Our Nation Must Promote a Culture that Values All Life WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) urged his colleagues to join him in protecting all life by supporting the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I’d like say a few words today in support of the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, of which I am a proud co-sponsor in the Senate. Simply put, this legislation protects unborn babies from unimaginable pain. Every child is a blessing and I am incredibly fortunate God has blessed my wife Bonnie and myself with two great boys and three grandsons. I will never forget the day we found out we were going to have our first child. It was life changing. When the doctor gave us the exciting news, we were overjoyed, but at the same time a bit overwhelmed. We were young and going to become parents. We were going to have a baby. Like every expecting mother, my wife was glowing. She may not have felt great and maybe didn’t think she was glowing, but I assure you she was. I’ll never forget seeing our baby on the ultrasound for the first time and feeling him kick. The day my first son was born, holding him for the first time, was one of the most incredible moments of my life. When the doctor told us we were going to have our second child, I was concerned we couldn’t possibly love this second child as much as we did the first but wow, how I was wrong. Then later in life, my wife and I have been blessed with three grandsons who are all great. There is no greater love than that of a parent. It can be rivaled by the love of a grandparent. Believe me, my three grandchildren know how to tug at my heartstrings. My children and grandchildren are why I am here in the Senate fighting for a better future for each of them, my fellow Georgians, and all Americans. We live in the most compassionate country in the world. We send food, clothing, and medicine all over the world to help save the underprivileged children and families who are struggling to find the basic things they need to survive. It is extremely troubling; therefore, that our country’s compassion for life is absent here at home. Only seven countries in the world allow parents to abort a baby after five months—only seven—and that is not a list that America should aspire to be part of. According to the Congressional Budget Office, over 10,000 unborn babies – 20 weeks or older – are killed in America every year. Imagine that for a moment: each year more than 10,000 lives, who feel and react to pain, have their lives brutally taken from them. In my view, this is a national disgrace. It is absolutely unconscionable. I cannot believe protecting life, especially the unborn, is an actual subject of debate. One would think this would be an issue of unity. But, debate on this important legislation could not have come at a more urgent time. Recent gruesome videos describe the harvesting and selling of fetal organs, and remind our nation just how barbaric the abortion industry has become. As a parent and now a grandparent, it is difficult to even imagine that something so horrific can happen in a country as compassionate as America. Our nation must promote a culture that values all life. We must protect the innocent and the most vulnerable among us, especially the unborn. We can protect unborn babies from unimaginable pain. We can protect life. That’s why I support this legislation, that’s why I co-sponsored it, and I urge my coworkers to take it very seriously.”
09.21.2015	09.21.15 Senator David Perdue Calls on Washington to Listen to the American People’s Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today called on Washington to put conservative principles into action and work through the full appropriations process, which responsibly reflects the priorities of the American people. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: "I rise today to talk about why I am here, and really why all of us are here. We are here to represent the people of our great states. We are here to do the people’s business and to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. We have just finished an ongoing debate about how Congress can direct and guide the foreign policy of the United States. In doing so, we have seen the dangerous consequences of partisan politics right here on the Senate floor and how that can affect this process. Just last week, 42 of my Democratic colleagues supported President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran, while still having serious concerns about its global ramifications. Now, we must refocus our attention on solving our fiscal crisis and tackling our skyrocketing national debt. State governments across the country set both funding levels and clear priorities for their states each year based on the needs of their people and their local communities. Washington has been distracted from this for far too long. Balancing the budget and efficiently allocating resources is what Washington has not done well for the last several years. Too many people here are preoccupied by politics of the day, when getting our fiscal house in order should always be the top priority. In other words, Washington has stopped listening to the American people. Well, I am indeed listening. The American people told us what they wanted in November of last year when I was elected, and Georgians tell me repeatedly even now what they want. They want less government. They want less spending. They want us to push back against President Obama’s out-of-control spending and executive overreaches that are failing the working men and women of America. The bottom line is, they want us to deal with this debt crisis. Earlier this year, the Senate Budget Committee took a great first step by passing a balanced budget for the first time since 2001. This budget outlined our conservative principles and spending limits. This budget spends $7 trillion dollars less than the President’s budget over the next 10 years. What it doesn’t do is reduce the debt today or deal with the over $100 trillion dollars of future unfunded liabilities coming at us like a freight train. It does balance in 10 years, which is quite an achievement given what we had to work with, but more can and must be done right now! So, I’m going to continue my focus on cutting wasteful spending and reducing federal expenditures with the goal of developing a long-term plan to pay down this out-of-control, massive $18 trillion dollars of federal debt. In the last six years, we spent $21 and a half trillion dollars funding our federal government. That’s so large it’s hard to comprehend. What I can understand is of that $21 trillion dollars, $8 trillion was borrowed. We simply cannot continue going down this road. While one side wants tax increases, the other side wants spending cuts. In my experience, neither alone will solve the equation in its entirety. Growing our economy is the only real solution. Again, the budget is just the first step. We must put our conservative principles into action and work through the regular appropriations process to determine how we responsibly allocate federal funds. The Senate Appropriations Committee has put forward 12 appropriations bills that adhere to the Republican Budget, and that reflect the priorities of the American people. Overall, these bills are under the Budget Control Act caps that were put in place by Congress in 2011 to control spending. More importantly, they better prioritize taxpayer dollars to meet the goals of the American people. For example, these appropriations bills decrease spending on Obamacare and increase spending for border security. They end the EPA’s ‘Waters of the U.S. rule’ and stop the Obama Administration’s onerous greenhouse gas regulations. They also prohibit the NLRB from changing the rules of the game – like the ambush elections rule and changing the joint-employer relationship – in order to prevent negative impacts to American workers and businesses. They subject the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the CFPB, to Congressional oversight and eliminate hundreds of duplicative programs that have outlived their original mission. The list goes on and on… The fiscal year ends on September 30th – that’s only a few days from now. We must move forward and debate these 12 appropriations bills that reflect Georgia values and fulfill the promises we made to represent the American people. While we have already seen our Democratic colleagues block such debate on these important bills, I hope we can immediately restart this critical process and return to regular order. Certainly, a full and robust debate on all of these bills is necessary to ensure that our federal government continues to function without overspending. Now, I can tell you there are some things I would like to change in these bills, but that ought to be debated in the open and not blocked by more partisan gridlock. I hope that the Majority Leader will continue to bring these bills to the floor and I hope that the objections of my Democratic colleagues will finally end and let’s get to an open and honest debate. Georgians sent me to the Senate to fight for them and that’s what I intend to do. This just a start. I will not, and I cannot, stand by while Senate Democrats continue to block the Senate from doing the people’s work as they did every day when they were in charge."
09.18.2015	09.18.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Introduce Resolution to Reverse Obama Administration’s Harmful EPA Regulation WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), along with 45 Senate co-sponsors, introduced a joint resolution disapproving President Obama’s ill-conceived rule known as “Waters of the United States” that allows the federal government to regulate nearly all private and state waters in the United States, including thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches. The Senate resolution would overturn the rule and send a message to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers that they failed to address concerns raised by farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and small businesses in Georgia and across the country. “This is yet another step in our fight against the administration’s ‘Waters of the United States’ rule, which allows federal bureaucrats to assert control over thousands of streams, creeks, wetlands, ponds and ditches throughout the country,” said Senator Isakson. “This latest overreach by the EPA will provide the administration, as well as environmental groups, with a powerful tool to delay and prevent development and land use activities on property owned by homeowners, farms, small businesses and municipalities. This rule harms not only landowners, but our entire agriculture industry in Georgia.” “Georgia farmers and landowners are outraged that Washington is trying to regulate how they maintain streams, ditches, and runoff water on their land,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “The EPA’s ‘Waters of the United States’ rule is a blatant government overreach that is causing confusion, uncertainty, and unnecessary red tape. For example, in Gwinnett County, nearly 3,000 miles of roads, 1,500 miles of streams, and 1,400 miles of drainage ditches would be subject to this new regulation from Washington. It is time to put an end to this harmful rule that threatens the livelihood of Georgia’s farmers, agribusinesses, and rural communities.” You can read the full resolution and view a list of original co-sponsors here. Senators Isakson and Perdue are also co-sponsors of S.1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would require the secretary of the Army and the administrator of the EPA to propose a regulation revising the definition of the term “Waters of the United States,” to define clear limits and to take into account an economic analysis of the rule. This legislation was approved by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and is now pending before the full U.S. Senate. Background: On March 25, 2014, EPA and the Corps released their proposed rule redefining “Waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. The term “Waters of the United States” is the Clean Water Act’s threshold provision that determines whether the law’s permitting and regulatory requirements apply to a particular body of water. The proposed rule, which was finalized on September 17, 2015, will provide EPA and the Corps, as well as environmental groups, with a powerful tool to delay and prevent development and land use activities on property owned by homeowners, farms, small businesses and municipalities. Federal bureaucrats—and not state and local authorities—could assert control over thousands of rivers, streams, lakes and marshes throughout the country. Earlier this week, Attorney General Sam Olens asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit to enter a nationwide order prohibiting the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from enforcing its “Waters of the United States” rule. Seventeen other state attorneys general also joined the request. In addition, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit this week accepted a request by Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens, along with 11 other states, to hear an emergency appeal of the District Court ruling against their lawsuit to overturn the “Waters of the United States” rule.
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Senator David Perdue Emphasizes Opposition to Obama’s Iran Deal WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today delivered a speech before the United States Senate to emphasize his opposition to President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran. Senator Perdue also reconfirmed his commitment to finding ways to mitigate the effects of this dangerous agreement and make sure Iran never becomes a nuclear weapons state. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Mr. President, I rise to speak today about President Obama's nuclear deal with Iran. I now cast multiple votes to proceed to an up-or-down vote on this nuclear deal. However, according to President Obama and his administration Congress’s review period ends today, even though there's still controversy about that. I want to applaud the Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Committee and the Chairman--the Ranking Member, Senator Cardin, is in attendance today, and Senator Corker-- for getting us to this point. In an unanimous vote in our committee, we got this bill, brought to the Senate, and we had a 98-1 vote in a bipartisan effort to bring this before the American people. Today, we sit here with a very small minority of Americans who actually support this deal. This administration chose not to consider this as a treaty, but as a non-binding political agreement. That means that in a little over a year, our next President can determine whether or not they will abide by this deal with Iran. My question is this: what can we do now --right now-- in the United States Senate over the next 14 months to continue to fight this president’s nuclear deal with Iran? I speak today to confirm that I will continue this fight individually if necessary. In the next 14 months, I’m committed to finding ways that we can mitigate the effects of this dangerous deal with Iran. We need to ratchet up sanctions on Iran for terrorism and human rights, and continue to be vigilant in both of those areas. We need to be prepared with sanctions that can snapped back swiftly when, not if, Iran cheats, even if that cheating is only incremental. We need a strategy to deal with the increase in terrorism and aggression we will see from Iran after they get over a $60 billion dollar payday from this deal. We need to plan to reassure our allies in this region and counter the nuclear and conventional arms race that this deal is sure to trigger. I’ve been saying this for months, which is why I ensured the passage of an amendment in the State Department Authorization bill that calls on the administration to produce such a strategy. I refuse to accept the world’s deadliest weapons getting in in the hands of this rogue regime. Hearing this administration sell the Iran deal, I’m so often reminded of then President Clinton’s deal in 1994. In 1994, President Clinton promised our country that this non-binding agreement with North Korea would make America and the world safer. Look at where we are today. Just 12 short years after Clinton’s deal, North Korea completed their first nuclear detonation test. Today, North Korea has a nuclear bomb and they are cooperating with Iran on Iran’s program. Just this week, North Korea announced that it is bolstering its nuclear arsenal and is prepared to use nuclear weapons, indeed against the United States of America. I fear that President Obama’s deal with Iran will have similar results. We cannot let Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon, not now, not in ten years, not ever. For the security of our children and our children's children, our country, our world, and our future, we absolutely have to make sure that Iran never becomes a nuclear weapons state.”
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Senator David Perdue Commemorates Constitution Day WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following video to commemorate the 228th anniversary of the creation of our Constitution. Click here to watch the video or click on the image below. Transcript: “On this day in 1787, our Founding Fathers signed the United States Constitution. This document gave birth to a new nation and reshaped the world stage. Our Founding Fathers carefully created a more perfect union, a government for the people by the people. They charged our government with maintaining domestic peace, providing for our common defense, and promoting the general welfare of others, all while protecting liberty for current and future generations. Four years after its creation, the states approved the Bill of Rights, 10 amendments to the Constitution that place specific limits on government power. Additionally, I believe our Founding Fathers were committed to the concept of citizen legislators, and never imagined the rise of the career politicians who have created the constant gridlock gripping Washington today. Today, 228 years later, our Constitution is – and must always be – the guiding hand for our great nation. As we celebrate this sacred document and the foresight of our Founding Fathers, we must never lose sight of these guiding principles, including: economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. May God continue to bless you, the great state of Georgia, and the United States of America.”
09.15.2015	09.15.15 Senator David Perdue Votes Multiple Times Against Obama’s Deal with Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked another critical up-or-down vote on President Obama’s disastrous nuclear agreement with Iran: “I have now cast multiple votes against President Obama’s dangerous deal with Iran. While this deal should be a non-partisan issue, Democrats once again blocked a critical up-or-down vote in the Senate. There is bipartisan agreement against this deal, but when given the opportunity most Senate Democrats refused to join us in sending a strong signal to our allies that the United States will not embrace a nuclear Iran. “What will it take for Senate Democrats to realize they are being fooled? Yesterday, Iran’s Supreme Leader released a propaganda video vowing to defeat the United State and last week, the Ayatollah pledged to eliminate our ally, Israel, within the next 25 years. Supporters of this deal are letting more money and resources go towards Iran’s regional terrorism and anti-American activity. Iran cannot be trusted and no Member of Congress with a clear conscious should support this deal given its grave consequences.”
09.15.2015	09.15.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons Comments WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement in response to today’s reports that North Korea is bolstering its nuclear arsenal and is prepared to use nuclear weapons against the United States at any time: “Today’s reported threat from North Korea is a sobering and stark reminder of the true consequences our country faces by trusting rogue regimes with nuclear technology. In 1994, then President Clinton promised our country that his non-binding political agreement with North Korea would make America and the world safer. Look at North Korea now. Just 12 years after Clinton’s deal, North Korea completed its first nuclear detonation test. Today, the radical country has a nuclear bomb and is threatening to use it against the United States and our regional allies at any time. “We cannot allow history to repeat itself with Iran. A bad deal with North Korea in the 1990s didn’t stop them from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Given President Obama’s current misplaced trust in Tehran, the world is dangerously close to dealing with another nuclear armed rogue regime. It’s imperative that Senate Democrats join us tonight in rejecting President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran, as it only serves to pave the way for yet another rogue regime to obtain a nuclear weapon aimed at America.”
09.14.2015	09.14.15 Senator David Perdue Cosponsors Bill to Roll Back Burdensome NLRB Regulation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recently co-sponsored the Protecting Local Business Opportunity Act, legislation to roll back the National Labor Relations Board’s “joint employer” regulation, which directly impacts American workers, our nation’s 780,000 franchise businesses, and millions of contractors. The legislation reaffirms an employer must have “actual, direct and immediate” control over an employee to be considered a joint employer – the same standard that was in place for decades before the board’s extreme decision. “This unelected group of presidential appointees continues to impose rules and regulations that negatively impact American jobs and workers," said Senator Perdue. "As a business guy, I know this type of overregulation dramatically changes how small businesses operate and cripples our economy. I have co-sponsored legislation to rein in this NLRB ruling and preserve the current joint-employer relationship.” For approximately 40 years, federal labor policies held that two separate employers are “joint employers” if both employers have direct and immediate control over employment terms and working conditions, such as being responsible for tasks like hiring and firing, setting work hours, issuing direction to employees, determining compensation and handling day to day record keeping. The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has determined that merely “indirect control” or even “unexercised potential” to control working conditions will now make two separate employers joint employers. This new standard will be applied retroactively. This determination, or regulation, means that in many more cases multiple employers will have to jointly negotiate working conditions with unions and share liability for labor law violations. As a result, franchisors will exert greater control over franchisees, discouraging aspiring small business owners from entering the business altogether. Georgia’s senior Senator and Chairman of the Senate HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety, Johnny Isakson, also co-sponsored this legislation. To view a list of co-sponsors of the Protecting Local Business Opportunity Act and the text of the bill, click here.
09.14.2015	09.14.15 Senator David Perdue Applauds Savannah Harbor Expansion Project Progress WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement applauding the start of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project: “Today is a great day for Savannah, the state of Georgia, and the Southeast. After almost two decades of bureaucratic delays from Washington to deepen our port five feet, the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is finally moving forward. This is a necessary infrastructure investment in order for the Port of Savannah to remain competitive and will help create more jobs and encourage economic growth. I applaud all of our state and local leaders who have fought hard through the years to advance this project and ensure the Port of Savannah remains a top port in our country." Recognizing the economic impact the port has on Georgia’s economy and the Southeast region of the country, Senator Perdue has consistently supported the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Prior to representing Georgia in the United States Senate and working to advance the project on the federal level, Senator Perdue previously served on the Georgia Ports Authority Board.
09.11.2015	09.11.15 Senator David Perdue Statement Commemorating All 9/11 Victims WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement to commemorate Patriot Day and honor all of the 9/11 victims: “Today, our nation unites in solemn reflection on the anniversary of two terrible tragedies to honor the Americans we lost at home and in Benghazi, Libya. Both of these tragic events serve to remind us to be ever vigilant to the challenges we face every day here and around the world. In all my life, I never thought I would see the day when 19 terrorists motivated by evil would kill nearly 3,000 people on American soil. There are never enough words to heal the wounds inflicted from such loss. However, our country never falters and we must continue to stand together against terrorism and radical extremists and for the values our great nation holds so dear. Today, our focus is on remembering our fallen patriots. I join my fellow Georgians and Americans in lifting up the victims’ families in prayer. May God bless the United States of America.”
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Senator David Perdue Blasts Senate Democrats for Blocking Iran Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today blasted Senate Democrats for blocking an up-or-down vote on President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran: “I am outraged that my Democratic colleagues prevented the Senate – and the American people – from having a say on President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran that will have grave consequences for our nation and the world. There is a bipartisan majority in this body against the deal, yet only Democrats are blocking an up-or-down vote. It’s absolute hypocrisy that the same Democratic senators who supported Congressional oversight back in April have now decided to put partisan politics ahead of global security. If Iran’s Supreme Leader is demanding Iran’s parliament should have a vote, at the very least, the American people deserve the same. I will continue to fight to dismantle this deal and stop a nuclear Iran.” Senator Perdue is leading the fight to reject this deal in the U.S. Senate. In February, Senator Perdue traveled to the Middle East to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Israel about preventing a nuclear Iran. After this visit, Senator Perdue was an original cosigner of a letter against the nuclear negotiations and has repeatedly spoken out against this disastrous agreement. Watch his most recent video message,rally remarks, and floor speech.
09.09.2015	09.09.15 Senator David Perdue Slams Iran Nuclear Deal at Rally WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke at the Stop the Iran Deal Rally hosted by the Tea Party Patriots based in Georgia. Leading the fight to stop President Obama’s Iran Deal, Senator Perdue stressed the global dangers of this nuclear deal for America, Israel, and the entire world. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Thank you Jenny Beth. Listen, thank you so much for being out here. God bless you guys. It feels like we're in Georgia today. I’m so proud of what the Tea Party Patriots are doing and I am very proud they can claim their roots right in my home state of Georgia. Thank you guys for being here. This deal is the worst negotiated deal in American foreign policy history. In 1994, President Bill Clinton told us if we sign a similar deal with the country of North Korea, that it would guarantee we would never have a nuclear weapon on the peninsula of Korea. How did that work out for us? And yet today, we have a similar deal that allows them not only a pathway, but almost a guarantee to a nuclear weapon. There are three things that any country needs for a nuclear weapon. One is they have to have nuclear material. We’re allowing these people to enrich. There was no need to do that. We had them at the table with the sanctions. The second thing is that they have to have a nuclear device, that’s a warhead. They don't have that today. But guess what, in the eleventh hour, our negotiators gave Iran the right to have access to the arms community, which means in five years they can buy that device. In eight years, they get to have a delivery system. They have a missile today that could get to Eastern Europe and, yes, our friends in Israel. They get in eight years access to ballistic missile technology to allow them to put the nuclear material in that nuclear device on top of a missile that can reach right here in Washington, D.C. That is what President Obama agreed to. We cannot allow Iran to ever become a nuclear weapon state. Not now, not in ten years, not ever. Ronald Reagan said, ‘Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction.’ We don't pass it down in our bloodstream. It has to be fought for, protected, and passed on so they can do the same thing, or one day in our sunset years, our children and our children's children will be listening to us them tell them what it was once like in America when men and women were free. Ladies and gentlemen, not on my watch, not on your watch. We have to stop this deal now. We have to keep working hard. Thank you and God bless you for what you're doing. Thank you.”
09.09.2015	09.09.15 Senator David Perdue: I Will Vote Against Obama’s Iran Deal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted that he will vote against President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal this week in the Senate. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “As I’ve traveled across Georgia, I have heard your concerns about President Obama’s dangerous Iran deal. I share those concerns and I will vote against it this week in the United States Senate. From the beginning, I have always believed that any international agreement of this magnitude should of course be a treaty. This belief was reinforced when I personally met with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Israel. He shares our concerns. The most dangerous threat to mankind’s future is a nuclear Iran. Still, President Obama and Secretary Kerry made it clear they didn’t want to subject their nuclear agreement to such scrutiny and seriousness. Congress has a Constitutional role to advice and consent on treaties, yet this opportunity was not even afforded by President Obama, who purposely sought to go around Congress, and instead make his deal with Iran a non-binding political agreement. That’s why I supported the bipartisan Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which overwhelmingly passed both the Senate and the House of Representatives to guarantee Congress and the American people had a say in this Iran deal. This was the only tool to ensure that Congress even got a vote. Without this legislation, President Obama could have waived sanctions on Iran the same day he brokered his bad deal. There would have been no review period for Congress and no way to reimpose sanctions potentially should Iran cheat. Every single Senate Republican has come out against this agreement. Democrats who support this dangerous deal have put partisan politics and special interests ahead of national security. Sadly, President Obama and Secretary Kerry will stop at nothing to force this agreement through against the will of Georgians and the majority of the American people. This fight is not over, and as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I completely reject this dangerous deal, and I will definitely vote to stop it.”
08.28.2015	08.28.15 Senator David Perdue Applauds Decision to Halt ‘Waters of the U.S.’ Rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today released the following statement regarding North Dakota District Court Judge Ralph Erickson’s decision to halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s damaging ‘Waters of the U.S.’ (WOTUS) rule from implementation in 13 states: “Like many Americans, I have been against the EPA’s ridiculous Waters of the U.S. regulation since day one,” said Senator Perdue. “It is outrageous President Obama and his EPA regulators are trying to regulate runoff water and rain puddles. I’m glad a federal judge agrees that the Obama Administration is out of line, and I will keep doing everything I can on a federal level to protect Georgia farmers and our state’s agriculture community from egregious executive overreach.” The WOTUS rule, which expands federal jurisdiction over land and waterways, has received considerable criticism from a variety of industries – including Georgia’s agriculture community. While Georgia was not listed in Judge Erickson’s ruling, Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens joined with eight other state Attorneys General in filing a lawsuit challenging overturn the WOTUS ruling. Their complaint was ultimately rejected by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. Senator Perdue participated in a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on the WOTUS rule in March and co-sponsored legislation in April to stop implementation of this unreasonable rule. This legislation was approved by the Senate Environment & Public Works Committee and is now pending full consideration on the U.S. Senate floor.
08.25.2015	08.25.15 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Champions Conservative Solutions At Americans For Prosperity Summit WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) gave an impassioned speech to thousands of conservative leaders at Americans for Prosperity’s (AFP) “Defending the American Dream” national conference in Columbus, Ohio. Senator Perdue attacked the liberal progressive policies that have failed working Americans and championed advancing conservative solutions in the U.S. Senate. Watch Senator Perdue’s full speech here. Washington Examiner: Freshman Senator David Perdue, R-Ga., another speaker at the event, mainly focused on economic issues. He noted that he introduced a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution in the Senate, and attributed the country's current financial problems to Democratic programs enacted under "supermajorities" over the last one hundred years: Obamacare, the New Deal, Dodd-Frank, and the Great Society. "The solution to this is not complicated," Perdue said of how to reduce the national debt. "First of all, we have to break the gridlock, that both parties are responsible for in Washington. One side wants tax increases, the next wants spending cuts. And we have gridlock for a generation. My answer is this: We have an 18 trillion dollar economy. Let's get the economy going again. Put people back to work. That's the solution to our debt crisis." Perdue also touched on the issue of class relations and the reputations of the various political parties on that issue. "We let the Democrats get away with the ultimate lie — that they represent the working men and women of America." (Jeb Bush: America must ‘lead the world’, 8/22/15) Atlanta Business Chronicle: Perdue charged President Barack Obama with bypassing Republican majorities on Capitol Hill with a series of executive orders and agency regulations that overstep his constitutional authority. “This president has figured out how to run the country without Congress,” Perdue said. “That’s not what the Founders had in mind.” Perdue also accused Obama of creating the conditions that led to the formation of ISIS by prematurely pulling U.S. troops out of Iraq in 2011 and criticized the nuclear deal the White House recently negotiated with Iran, which is now before the Senate. (Perdue rips Obama at conservative summit, 8/21/15) The Political Insider: Senator David Perdue rocked the Americans for Prosperity microphone at the Defending the Dream Conference in Ohio over the weekend, giving a dynamic speech that left many wondering why he isn’t running for president. Perdue, a relatively unknown Senator from Georgia, got a warmer reception from the thousands of assembled conservative grassroots activists than Jeb Bush did. Speaking to about 3,000 conservatives at a summit in Columbus, Perdue charged Barack Obama with bypassing Republican majorities on Capitol Hill with a series of executive orders and agency regulations that overstep his constitutional authority. (Senator Fires Up Conservative Base, EXPOSES What Obama’s Doing to Congress, 8/24/15) Georgia Pundit: This weekend, Senator David Perdue delivered the keynote address at the Americans for Prosperity “Defending the American Dream” conference in Columbus, Ohio. (Georgia Politics, Campaigns, and Elections, 8/25/15) Z Politics: Outside is the new ‘in’ in conservative politics these days. GOP presidential candidates like Donald Trump, Carly Fiorina, and Ben Carson, all viewed as political outsiders, are gaining in the polls ahead of generally well-liked contenders who have held public office. Here in Georgia, Senator David Perdue often credits his win in last year’s U.S. Senate race to his ‘outsider’ status. Now, he’s taken his message to the national stage, winning over new supporters outside of the Peach State. At the Americans for Prosperity ‘Defending the American Dream’ Summit last Friday, Perdue touted his outsider credentials to the conservative crowd, and by all signs received a more-than-warm reception. (Senator David Perdue Enters National Spotlight As An ‘Outsider’, 8/24/15) DonCole.com: Senator David Perdue might tell some that public speaking is not one of his strong points. Over 4,000 people at the Americans for Prosperity Defending the American Dream Summit in Columbus, Ohio would have to disagree. Senator Perdue was one of the keynote speakers at the Summit along with many of the Republican Presidential candidates. The audience was glued to the outsider businessman who shared his passionate calling to focus on the financial crisis that America faces. Perdue gave some history about how we got where we are. He made a common sense observation that makes one wonder how we got ourselves into this situation. We have an agreement with Taiwan that we will defend them if they are ever attacked by China. David Perdue’s confidence is not based on mere political strategy. The attendees saw the burning conviction that drew him from the comfort of private life to serve the people of Georgia and the people of this nation. (David Perdue Speaks to Americans for Prosperity, 8/24/15)
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Senator David Perdue Requests Additional Information on State Department Training Facility Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department and USAID Management Subcommittee, this week requested detailed cost-estimates and internal recommendations pertaining to the State Department proposal to construct the Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FAST-C) in Virginia, instead of augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Georgia, which would save taxpayers millions of dollars. Senator Perdue sent a letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking for the staff-level recommendation that chose FLETC over FAST-C, before the decision was deferred to the State Department. The recommendation, which OMB staff have confirmed exists, is purported to show OMB concluded FLETC should be the site for the new diplomatic security training facility. “I am concerned this new site was selected without a complete, independent analysis of options, including augmenting an existing facility—an option I believe would achieve significant cost savings,” writes Senator Perdue in the letter to OMB. “As Chairman of the State Department Management Subcommittee, I want to improve diplomatic security training efforts in a cost-effective, timely manner. As such, I respectfully request that you share the staff-level recommendation that concluded FLETC should be the site for the new diplomatic security training facility. I also request all documents, communications, and analyses conducted by the Office of Management and Budget concerning FAST-C and any alternative facilities, including, but not limited to, FLETC for use by the U.S. Department of State, from January 1, 2012 to present.” Senator Perdue also sent a letter to the State Department requesting a description of what was eliminated to significantly reduce the cost of the original FAST-C master plan and how this impacts per diem and hotel costs associated with constructing and operating the facility. In the letter, Senator Perdue asked for detailed information on Ft. Pickett expenditures and funds obligated, but not initiated, for the site as well. “I have concerns that this scaled down version leaves critical infrastructure needs, such as boarding, medical, dining, and recreational facilities unaddressed,” writes Senator Perdue in the letter to the State Department. “I am also concerned that costs would likely increase significantly after the initial groundbreaking to address these gaps in infrastructure, and potentially additional training needs. To fully understand the current proposal, I request that the State Department provide a description of what was lost or sacrificed in order to take the FAST-C master plan from an estimated cost of $950 million down to the most recent estimate of $413 million.” Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to OMB to service State’s training needs by augmenting FLETC, in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 95 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and driving tracks to meet the requirements of the State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $272 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet the State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. In April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C in Blackstone, Va. However, in a meeting with Senate staff in May 2015, OMB explained that the State Department never provided the necessary information to OMB, or to FLETC, to allow for an accurate comparison of the two options despite OMB making the specific request that it do so. In that same meeting, OMB stated that the State Department has “artificially constrained the analysis” of the FAST-C proposal, and that OMB ultimately chose to simply defer the decisions to the State Department. It appears therefore that OMB failed to conduct a sufficiently rigorous analysis, in significant part due to a lack of cooperation by the State Department.
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Senator David Perdue Talks Iran Deal on Fox Business Network WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, yesterday discussed the Iran nuclear agreement and the security threats it poses to the free world with Neil Cavuto on Fox Business Network’s Cavuto Coast to Coast. Bipartisan disapproval of the Iran nuclear agreement continues to grow. This week, Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY), third-ranking Senate Democrat, and Representative Eliot Engel (D-NY), House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member, officially announced their opposition to the deal. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Partisan Rhetoric Reveals Desperation: “We are hopeful this won’t be a partisan issue. We are hopeful that people will look at this document in its entirety with all the other comments and information we received over the last few days and make a non-partisan decision. This is bigger than me. It’s bigger than our parties. This is about our national security and frankly, I think the President is desperate for a deal at any cost. That’s unfortunate.” Weak Argument Suggests False Choice: “Their argument is this is not a great deal, it’s the best deal we can negotiate, and we need to try it and we’re in no worse position in the future. This is a bad deal. It does not achieve what the President himself said he wanted, and that is to preclude Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I believe this deal does not do that. I’ve been very measured in my approach to this, but the evidence here in this document shows me that we are in a weaker position in 10-15 years at the end of the sunset period to hold Iran accountable and preclude them from becoming a nuclear weapon state.” 60-Day Congressional Review Period Exposes Weaknesses: “We took a non-partisan approach in our Foreign Relations Committee and passed it unanimously to get this 60-day review period for this very reason. That’s to give us time to get information about what’s in this deal. Now that we have seen this deal and we are getting all the other testimony around the other information that is important here. We’re seeing the weaknesses in the deal.”
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Senator David Perdue: Eliminating Repatriation Tax A Necessity For Global Competitiveness WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) spoke on the Senate floor about Washington’s outdated tax code and called on the Senate to act now and grow the economy by eliminating the repatriation tax. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to speak about seizing the opportunity to drive real economic growth right now, but first, I'd like to give a little context by referencing our great nation’s desperate fiscal condition. Decades of overspending by both parties and mismanagement by both parties have led to a crushing 18 trillion dollars of federal debt. Even more sobering to me is the upcoming 100 trillion dollars of future unfunded liabilities coming at us like a freight train. We have a fiscal crisis in this country, everybody can see it. People back home can feel it. As an outsider, my role is to bring a new sense of urgency to Washington to help solve this fiscal crisis. While I'm encouraged by the work my colleagues on the Budget Committee completed this year—we completed a balanced budget for the first time since 2001—it was merely a good first step in the right direction. But, we've got a lot of heavy lifting to do. We must act right now to get our fiscal house in order before it's too late. Yes, we must cut unnecessary spending. Yes, there are redundant agencies and programs that should be eliminated. And yes, we do need to have a national dialogue on how we keep the commitments that were made to our seniors while saving those important programs for future generations. However, discretionary spending cuts and long-term reforms to mandatory programs alone will not solve this problem. The numbers just simply don't add up to solve this crisis. Economic growth is really the only answer. Economic growth supports good-paying jobs across the entire country, and economic growth eventually means more revenue for the federal government without raising taxes. If we were ever going to get out of the hole that Washington has dug for our country, we're going to have to grow our way out of it economically. One of the biggest opportunities to infuse energy and investment into our economy right now is before us as I speak, just waiting for us to act on it. There are approximately 2.1 trillion dollars in corporate profits of American multinational companies sitting abroad, trapped by our archaic tax laws. Imagine if we could lure just a portion of that back in terms of capital investment in our economy. The multiplier effect alone could be incredible as it rippled its way throughout our domestic economy. In recent weeks, we've heard a lot of talk about how we in Washington can get those overseas earnings repatriated back to the United States economy. For me the solution is quite simple. We simply eliminate the barrier to repatriation by completely eliminating the tax on repatriation. My approach isn't just based on my business career. It's not just based on my desire to give our economy a needed shot in the arm. Completely eliminating this tax on repatriation is an absolute necessity for global competitiveness and to create a level playing field with the rest of the world. I rarely compare other countries to the United States. For simple reasons: number one, we have an 18 trillion dollar economy; number two, we're the innovator in the world; number three, we have the rule of law; and number four, we have really a very dynamic and diverse economy. Very few countries compare to that. But this is one time where a comparison is warranted because it's about how we compete for economic development and jobs with the rest of the world. A company headquartered in the United States not only has to pay taxes in every single country in which it does business, but when it elects to bring back the remaining profits from abroad, that corporation is forced to pay an additional tax, a repatriation tax. This doesn't happen if the corporation is based in Canada, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, or indeed, the remainder of the 39 OECD countries. In fact, there is only one country in the list of 39 OECD countries that has a repatriation tax: the United States. The United Kingdom actually eliminated their repatriation tax in 2009 and over the last decade have reduced their corporate tax from 28 percent to 18 percent. We continue to see companies leave the United States because the they can go pretty much anywhere else and benefit from much lower tax rates than here in America. We've seen a rash of those inversions over the last few years and it's not going to stop until we deal with the underlying problem and that is our corporate tax rate is not competitive with the rest of the world. The repatriation tax is a derivative of that primary causal problem. What I'm talking about today is simply the elimination of the repatriation tax but sooner or later, we have to deal with the fact that our corporate tax rate is simply not competitive. The question simply before us is do we want multinational companies, in many cases iconic American brands, to continue to call the United States home or not? As a former CEO of a large branded company that manufactured in dozens of countries and sold in dozens more, I have firsthand experience, and I can tell you that based on that experience we are losing our competitive advantages with the rest of the world. In fact, I see us now at a growing disadvantage for our American companies to compete with companies in other countries. The hostile regulatory environment the (Obama) Administration has created is killing American jobs and our outdated tax system is forcing them to expand abroad. Executive orders and regulatory mandates have created a punitive atmosphere in which to try to grow businesses or start businesses here in the United States. Unfortunately, in typical Washington fashion, the dialogue on repatriation is focused on how to get a short-term solution, a short-term federal tax increase instead of using repatriation as a tool to grow the economy and make us more competitive. In my estimate, this kind of thinking is dead wrong and another example of how we got in this mess in the first place. We should not be looking at repatriation as a way to pay for the Highway Trust Fund or any other short-term solution to Washington’s spending problems for that matter. That kind of shortsighted thinking will only make our fiscal situation worse. It will only cause more American companies to look for a new home. Repatriation is a big idea, with a big potential impact for our economy. If we encourage repatriation the right way, it means sustained growth for our economy, it means more American jobs and innovation. And, ultimately it means an organic increase in federal tax revenues based on pure economic growth. This growth can allow us to deal with our economic and fiscal priorities, and finally develop a long-term plan to begin to pay down our overburdened debt. Before I conclude, I have one final thought. I hope this thought will compel my colleagues to act with a sense of urgency on this issue and others that impact our economy. We actually have fewer people working than at any time in the last 30 years. When I go back home, the number-one question that is put before me is, how can I get my hours up? How can I get more work? People back home know we have a crisis. It's not just bureaucrats in Washington looking for a few more tax dollars so we can make government bigger. This is about putting people back to work. Helping us compete against the growing economies of China, India, Russia, and other rivals of today's world. The approval rating of Congress today is somewhere in the mid-single digits and that’s only because our mothers voted. I believe it’s because this town's priorities are not aligned with those of the people who sent us here for their bidding. Folks back home know that shortsighted, short-term solutions to big problems is how Washington got in this mess in the first place. So today we can continue to argue about temporary ways to pay for trust funds that are going bankrupt every few weeks, or we can simply finally get serious about solving this systemic problem before we have to hand it to our children and our children's children. I know the American people expect the latter. In fact, they're demanding it. That can happen, but we must make real tax reforms right now that will set us on a new course for economic growth and opportunity for generations to come. The time for serious debate about repatriation has come. We have an opportunity. I implore my colleagues in the Senate to debate this earnestly and let’s move on this right now and put people back to work, make America more competitive for our children and our children's children.”
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Bipartisan Group of Senators Call for Free and Fair Elections in Haiti WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are urging President Obama to collaborate with the international community to ensure the Haitian people have the ability to freely and fairly elect their leaders. In a letter to President Obama, the Senators highlighted the assistance the United States provided the Haitian government to rebuild the country after the devastating earthquake in 2010. Due to corruption and a lack of good governance, the Haitian government is long-overdue for free and fair elections. As parliamentary and presidential elections near, there are serious concerns about whether these elections will be inclusive and transparent. “The United States has invested almost four billion dollars in relief aid in Haiti since the devastating 2010 earthquake,” wrote the Senators in a letter to President Obama. “If long-term political and economic stability are to be achieved, it is imperative that the United States work with Haitian officials to promote good governance, uphold democratic values, and ensure that the Haitian people have the ability to freely select their own leaders. “We request that your administration join with the Organization of American States and other international organizations to support electoral monitoring and observation in Haiti. We also request a detailed update about what your administration is doing to promote free and fair elections in Haiti.” Background: The 2010 elections in Haiti were marred by reports of fraud, violence, voter intimidation, violations of electoral laws, illegal exclusion of political parties and candidates, and problems with the composition of the electoral council. Municipal elections have been delayed since 2011 because President Martelly and opposition parties have failed to agree on terms, and Constitutionally mandated parliamentary elections were delayed in 2012. Prime Minister Laurent Lamothe resigned amid anti-government protests in December 2104, and the following month the terms of the majority of Haitian members of parliament expired. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
08.03.2015	08.03.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Blast New EPA Energy Tax WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today blasted the Obama Administration’s latest announced policy that has the potential to raise the cost of living for hardworking taxpayers through the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) newest requirement that existing power plants reduce their emissions by 32 percent by the year 2030. “The Obama Administration continues to pursue policies that will raise the cost of living for hardworking taxpayers, this new rule being the latest example in a long-term trend,” said Senator Isakson. “Coal provides more than two-thirds of Georgia’s electricity and supports 8,800 jobs in our state. I will fight this energy tax that will destroy jobs and harm our economy. If the President truly wants to help our economy, he should approve the KeystoneXL pipeline, which would create thousands of jobs and help secure our nation’s energy future.” “President Obama’s constant barrage of overreaching regulatory mandates are crippling our economy’s ability to fully recover and stifling our global competitiveness,” said Senator Perdue. “The damaging effects of this hostile executive action will drive up energy prices for Georgia families and businesses, while the ripple effect throughout our economy will increase costs of basic necessities for those already struggling to make ends meet. The Obama Administration’s short-sighted policies continue to hurt the very people they claim to help, which is why I will fight them with every tool at my disposal.” The Obama Administration’s “Clean Power Plan” released today requires an even greater reduction in emissions than the rule that was originally proposed in June 2014, and demands that states submit a plan to implement the rules by 2016. The new regulations are expected to impact hundreds of fossil-fuel plants, including 600 coal-powered plants. Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue are original co-sponsors of S.1324, the Affordable Reliable Electricity Now Act of 2015, which would delay the rule until legal proceedings from twelve states have concluded, as well as give states the ability to opt out of the rule. Additionally, S.1324 would prevent the EPA from withholding federal highway funds if a state doesn’t submit a plan. Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue also sent letters to President Obama and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy during the proposal phase in opposition to the Obama Administration’s proposed Clean Power Plan and calling for the rule’s withdrawal.
08.03.2015	08.03.15 Senator David Perdue Votes to Defund Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding his vote on S. 1881, legislation he co-sponsored to defund Planned Parenthood: “As a parent, and now a grandparent, I find these actions unthinkable. Planned Parenthood should not receive any taxpayer money, period. I stand with many Georgians and Americans in the fight to defend life and I will continue to advocate for an immediate and thorough investigation of these disturbing actions.” Senator Perdue recently joined 49 senators in sending a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell condemning the videos and urging Secretary Burwell to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations, including Georgia’s joint review of clinics in the state. Additionally, Senator Perdue co-sponsored legislation to defund Planned Parenthood and require that a special prosecutor be named to examine the practices of Planned Parenthood.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Highway Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed a three-month highway bill: “The gridlock that held up the highway bill exemplifies why Georgians are so frustrated with Washington. I continue to support funding critical infrastructure, but we must do so responsibly. For too long, Washington insiders have ignored our $18 trillion national debt and have wasted time on priorities that don’t match those of the American people. If we want to solve our fiscal crisis, we’ve got to grow the economy, and building infrastructure supports a robust economy. That’s why I proposed an amendment to the highway bill that would simply match the length of authorization with the available funding. I will work with my Senate colleagues over the next three months to find a serious long-term solution to responsibly fund our national highway system.”
07.29.2015	07.29.15 Georgia Congressional Delegation Urges Administration to Prioritize Savannah Harbor Project WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with the entire Georgia U.S. House of Representatives delegation, today urged the administration to make the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project a top priority for its fiscal year 2017 budget recommendations. In a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Georgia congressional delegation called for the Army Corps of Engineers to match its budget request with the public commitments for federal support expressed by several members of the Obama administration. The total cost of the Savannah Harbor project is $706 million, and the federal government’s share of that cost is $440 million. The state of Georgia has already contributed its $266 million share of the project’s cost. If the federal government allots less than $100 million a year to the Savannah Harbor project for fiscal years 2017-2020, the project cannot be completed by 2020 and the resulting delays could ultimately cost taxpayers an extra $200 million. Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue, along with Representative Buddy Carter (GA-01), also met with Assistant Secretary Darcy today to reiterate the importance of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project to Georgia and the entire Southeast. “The key to the success of this project will be whether the administration’s budget proposal next year includes at least the approximately $100 million that [the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers] has identified as the level that would keep the project on the path to timely completion,” writes the Georgia congressional delegation. “By every measure, our ability to grow our economy is tied to our ability to have competitive international shipping rates, and those rates are determined by having cost-efficient port infrastructure. And no port infrastructure project in the nation can more efficiently and more quickly stimulate job growth in our country than SHEP.” Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels travelling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters.
07.29.2015	07.29.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Introduce Legislation to Defund Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with 22 Senate Republicans, this week introduced legislation to defund Planned Parenthood. This legislation, S.1881, comes in light of the gruesome video footage detailing Planned Parenthood’s role in the harvesting of the organs of unborn babies. The Senate is expected to vote on this legislation next week. “The government should not be funding Planned Parenthood or any abortions in the first place,” said Senator Isakson. “These videos that have come to light are incredibly disturbing, and we should launch an immediate investigation into this organization’s abhorrent activities. I will continue to fight to ensure Planned Parenthood does not receive another dime from hardworking taxpayers.” “These gut-wrenching videos underscore the serious nature of the situation,” said Senator Perdue. “As a parent, and now grandparent, I find these actions unthinkable. Planned Parenthood should not receive any federal funding, period. I will continue defending life and I join many Georgians and Americans in calling for an immediate investigation.” The bill was introduced by Sen. Joni Ernst (R-IA) and co-sponsors include Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AZ), Richard Burr (R-NC), Dan Coats (R-IN), Tom Cotton (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Deb Fischer (R-NE), James Inhofe (R-OK), Ron Johnson (R-WI), James Lankford (R-OK), John McCain (R-AZ), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rand Paul (R-KY), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), and John Thune (R-SD). In addition to defunding Planned Parenthood, this legislation ensures that federal funds no longer available to Planned Parenthood will continue to be available to other eligible entities to provide important women’s health care services. Last week, Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue also sent a letter with 48 senators to the Obama Administration condemning the video footage and calling for an investigation of the senior Planned Parenthood executives shown discussing in gruesome detail the organization’s role in the harvesting of the organs of unborn babies.
07.28.2015	07.28.15 Senator David Perdue Calls To Defund Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement regarding the release of additional undercover videos about Planned Parenthood: “These gut-wrenching videos underscore the serious nature of the situation. As a parent, and now grandparent, I find these actions unthinkable. Planned Parenthood should not receive any federal funding, period. I will continue defending life and I join many Georgians and Americans in calling for an immediate investigation of these disturbing actions.” Last week, Senator Perdue, along with 49 other senators, sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell to highlight the legal, ethical, and policy issues raised by the footage. Senator Perdue also called on Secretary Burwell to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations, including Georgia’s joint review of clinics in the state.
07.27.2015	07.27.15 Conservative Senators Fight For Fiscally Responsible Highway Bill Amendment WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), along with Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) and Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ), co-sponsored a fiscally responsible amendment to the highway funding bill, which simply matches the authorization period with the available funding. As written, the highway bill authorizes six-years of spending but only provides three-years of funding. “We should only be planning to fund what we can pay for, plain and simple. I want to thank Senator Perdue for offering this important amendment,” said Senator Scott. “Only in Washington could you square a six-year bill with only three years of funding,” said Senator Flake. “Rather than find itself staring down another fiscal cliff in short order, the Senate ought to exercise some fiscal responsibility now. Supporting this commonsense amendment to scale back authorization to a level that is fully offset would be a good start.” “A serious long-term solution needs to be fully funded, not filled with half-empty promises that could add to our national debt,” said Senator Perdue. “This amendment breaks Washington of its chronic overspending problem and ensures that Congress is only authorizing programs it can pay for now. I will continue fighting to fund critical highway projects without compromising our conservative budget principles.” On Friday, the Congressional Budget Office released its review of the highway bill and determined that an additional $51 billion dollars ($38 billion for the highway account and $13 billion for the transit account) will be needed to cover the outlays for all of the authorizations outlined in the six-year bill. Senator Perdue’s amendment cuts off authorizations for unfunded portions of the bill and helps ensure Washington does not add billions of dollars to the national debt.
07.27.2015	07.27.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Export-Import Bank WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted against tying the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank to the highway bill: “America’s economic leadership drives growth and innovation around the world. As a businessman who has lived and worked overseas, I understand the need for increasing trade and expanding American exports into emerging markets. In order to do that we need a level playing field for American businesses to remain competitive with international companies who currently have an unfair advantage. “That being said, I am very concerned about the structure of the Export-Import Bank in its current form and the loan guarantees that add taxpayer-assumed risk to our already unstable fiscal situation. Unfortunately, we did not have an opportunity to even debate potential reforms. The American people still deserve a full debate to ensure we do not jeopardize any American jobs.”
07.26.2015	07.26.15 Senator David Perdue Votes to Repeal Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to repeal Obamacare, President Obama’s flawed healthcare law that has driven up healthcare costs across the nation: “Obamacare’s unintended consequences are hurting Georgians and Americans across the country. Healthcare costs are higher, businesses have been forced to cut back workers’ hours, and people cannot see the doctors they've learned to like and trust. Americans need a healthcare system that lowers costs, increases access to doctors, and doesn't negatively impact our economy. After five years, it’s crystal clear that Obamacare was flawed from the start, and I was proud to vote today to repeal this burdensome law. We can change course and create a better healthcare system for all Americans. That’s why I remain committed to using every tool at our disposal to completely repeal Obamacare and finally put patients first and get Washington out of the way.” Senator Perdue continues to fight to fully repeal Obamacare and previously co-sponsored legislation to fully repeal the law. Watch Senator Perdue’s recent floor speech about the negative impacts of Obamacare on Georgians and Americans. ###
07.23.2015	07.23.15 VIDEO: Senator David Perdue Talks Iran Deal on Fox News Channel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senator Foreign Relations Committee, today discussed the Iran nuclear agreement and the security threats it poses to the free world with Bill Hemmer on Fox News Channel’s America’s Newsroom. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Stopping A Nuclear Iran: “The goal all along, according to President Obama and Secretary Kerry, was to be sure that this deal precluded Iran from becoming nuclear. I read every page in this document, 159 pages. I read the classified documents, and I'm convinced that it fails in that regard. It does not preclude Iran from becoming a nuclear weapon state.” Iran Deal Fails The American People: “We got a unanimous vote out of committee and a 98-1 vote in the Senate to get oversight review of this thing. I’m hopeful that we can move past partisan politics and look at this thing in a non-partisan way. This is about the future of our country and the future of our world...This is too important. We have got to get this right. Right now, this deal fails the American people.” Building Bipartisan Consensus To Reject Iran Deal: “What we are trying to do is give us all a chance to develop a bipartisan consensus. That’s what we’ve been doing here in the Foreign Relations Committee. We recognize this is bigger than partisan politics, and I'm hopeful that our Democrat and Republican colleagues will move to reject this deal. That's where we are working now behind the scenes to get 67 votes to reject this.”
07.23.2015	07.23.15 ICYMI: Roll Call: David Perdue Emerging As Key Player On Foreign Relations David Perdue Emerging As Key Player On Foreign Relations Roll Call By Niels Lesniewski July 22, 2015 http://bit.ly/1IjSPK5 Perdue’s business background and sober approach have made the freshman senator a player on the Foreign Relations Committee. (Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call) David Perdue knew he wanted a seat on the Foreign Relations Committee before he became a senator, and joining the panel has positioned him well for having a voice in the debate over last week’s agreement with Iran about its nuclear program. There’s been no shortage of bluster and rhetorical flourishes about the potential consequences from detractors of the agreement between Iran and six world powers — the U.S., Russia, China, the United Kingdom, France and Germany. There have even been comparisons to the appeasement of Adolf Hitler by Neville Chamberlain before the outbreak of World War II. But Perdue, a Georgia Republican known for his business background, favors a far more sober approach to the congressional review process. He spoke with CQ Roll Call last week, shortly before he planned to go to a secure room to review classified documents about the deal and components related to the United Nations. “Our job right now is to do what we set out to do in the first beginning, and that is to get a bipartisan consensus about what’s best for the American security, American people and really deal with this in that perspective. This is not about the president. It’s not about partisan politics,” Perdue said. “You know, we had a unanimous vote in the Foreign Relations Committee.” Perdue was speaking of the legislation ultimately spearheaded by Chairman Bob Corker, R-Tenn., and ranking member Benjamin L. Cardin, D-Md., that set up the ground rules for the legislative branch to have the chance to disapprove of the ultimate agreement with Iran. As the only former Fortune 500 CEO serving in the Senate, Perdue has experience working overseas and prefers to study the issues and work behind the scenes. “As a member of that committee, I’ve lived outside the United States, I’ve worked outside the United States. I brought a perspective, and we fought hard — both sides. Sen. Cardin did a great job. Sen. Corker did a great job of bringing us together and getting a consensus vote,” Perdue said. Perdue was among the senators building up support for that original legislation, which ultimately got more than the 67 votes needed to overcome what was at that point an expected veto by President Barack Obama. Now, the challenge is to build a consensus about a response to the agreement that could achieve similar support. He was also one of many Republicans (and some key Democrats) who criticized Obama for what critics view as an end-run around the process by going to the United Nations Monday. “After capitulating to Iran’s demands, President Obama and Secretary [of State John] Kerry sidelined the American people by advancing the Iran deal today in a United Nations Security Council vote without Congressional review,” Perdue said in a statement after the UN vote. “The Obama Administration claims this deal makes Americans safer and stops a nuclear Iran, when in reality it does neither.” The congressional review really gets going Wednesday afternoon, when senators are scheduled to be briefed by the administration about the agreement in a closed setting. The first of several open hearings at the Foreign Relations Committee is set for Thursday, featuring Kerry, Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew. “What we are about is to bring the experts in here, bring the administration to give them a chance to explain what the deal really is. They have not done that yet,” Perdue said. “We saw some things in the report this week that we did not know existed, and so now we have an opportunity to do that. We also have the opportunity to bring outside people in to give them their perspective. I have to tell you though that I am very, very skeptical at this point.” Perdue praised Corker for the process and for helping to get him on the committee in the first place, and the feeling is mutual. “He’s outstanding,” Corker said of his freshman colleague. “I knew him before he came to the Senate and I didn’t know him well, but I knew of his distinguished, very distinguished career in business. I got to know him a little bit during the campaign but I really lobbied hard for … him to be on the committee. He’s just the best. I cannot say enough good things about Sen. Perdue. His maturity, his thoughtfulness, his ability to discern what’s important and what isn’t.” Perdue has already made two trips overseas, and he has met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. One of his projects at Foreign Relations is working with Corker and panel Democrats on the crafting of a State Department authorization bill, as chairman of the subcommittee that oversees the agency’s operations. It’s been more than 13 years since the State Department’s had an authorization bill advance, but like Corker, Perdue seems interested in restoring the former role of the Foreign Relations Committee in big national debates.
07.23.2015	07.23.15 Senator David Perdue Calls On Senate To Reject Iran Deal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor about the Obama Administration’s Iran nuclear agreement and urged his colleagues to reject the deal. Senator Perdue also encouraged his colleagues to join him in gathering the 67 veto-proof majority needed to stop President Obama from granting the largest state sponsor of terrorism a pathway to developing a nuclear weapons capability. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “I rise today to talk about a very important topic for our country, the future of our kids, and the future of our kids’ kids. This morning I was in a Foreign Relations hearing about Iran. It’s pretty obvious the Administration has decided, once again, that our democratic values and procedures are just too high of a hurdle to clear. Instead of keeping its promise to the American people and following the pledge it made to Congress just a few months ago to give everyone time to review the terms of this deal the Administration has instead undercut all of us again. This Administration has effectively ignored the 98 senators—myself included—and 400 representatives who voted for the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act earlier this year. By advancing this vote at the U.N. Security Council, this Administration has violated the very balance of power between our three branches of government. I am outraged that this Administration continues to circumvent Congress at every turn, from regulations to mandates to foreign policy. This is an absolute failure of the Administration to do what’s best for the American people, our security, and indeed, the security of the world. The precept for this deal with Iran simply doesn’t make sense. This deal started off by ceding the right to enrich to Iran immediately—reversing decades of U.S. nonproliferation policy. In fact, Secretary Kerry said in 2013 that, quote, ‘we do not recognize the right to enrich.’ This deal reverses six U.N. Security Council Resolutions and turns a pariah proliferator into a legitimate nuclear state. This agreement allows Iran to leapfrog over the 18 countries who have peaceful nuclear programs, but no enrichment, and to be treated like countries like Argentina, Brazil, Germany, Netherlands, and Japan who have peaceful energy programs and domestic enrichment, but who do not have a nuclear weapon. These five nations are upstanding members of the international community. And this deal takes Iran—the largest state sponsor of terrorism, and a violator of human rights, as well as an international pariah—and treats Iran’s nuclear program like Japan’s. Secretary Kerry said at a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee in March that “our negotiation is calculated to make sure that Iran can never have a nuclear weapon.” But President Obama has said that ‘in year 13, 14, or 15’… ‘the breakout times would have shrunk down to almost zero.’ So this deal won’t protect Iran from becoming a nuclear weapons state—it just delays it. As I’ve said all along, I cannot support any deal that allows Iran to become a nuclear weapons state. Not now, not in ten years, not ever. What’s more, this deal provides Iran with billions of dollars of sanctions relief upfront, before the IAEA completes its full assessment on whether or not Iran’s nuclear program is indeed peaceful. It took the IAEA 19 years to make this determination for South Africa’s program. And this deal starts lifting U.N. and E.U. sanctions this year, the arms embargo in five years, and the ballistic missile ban in eight short years. This deal will provide Iran with a windfall of sanctions relief of up to over 100 billion dollars. Funds that President Obama’s National Security Advisor, Susan Rice, just recently conceded will go to terrorism, the Iranian military, the Houthis, and Assad. President Obama said that “this deal is not built on trust, it is built on verification.” But, this deal doesn’t require ‘anytime, anywhere’ inspections of all nuclear and military sites. Instead, it empowers Iran to create lengthy delays when IAEA inspectors request access to suspicious nuclear sites that are indeed not declared by Iran. From what I understand, the IAEA will have two teams traveling the country twice the size of Texas. And let’s not forget that Iran developed the Fordow facility and it operated for years, despite having IAEA teams on the ground. And if we do find Iran to be in violation of this deal, our enforcement mechanism has no teeth. ‘Snap back’ sanctions in fact are a fantasy. Paragraph 37 of the Iran deal states that Iran will cease performing all of its commitments to the deal, in the event of a full or partial snapback. Iran will walk away if we try to hold it to the very deal it just signed off on. With this all-or-nothing nature of the snap back, will anyone try to punish Iran’s cheating? History tells us that when Iran cheats, it does so incrementally. In small steps. So no single action in and of itself can be punished. But, when you look at it over time, their cheating is egregious. Will any nation be willing to stake sinking the entire deal over minor cheating? Even if sanctions are indeed snapped back, Iran’s sanctions relief is front-loaded. They will be able to so quickly pad their economy to make themselves more resistant to future sanctions. Most dangerously, this deal is predicated on the idea that the regime will change its dangerous behavior, when we’ve only seen proof that we’ll see more of the same: sponsorship of rogue regimes and terrorism worldwide. So I’m curious, given what we know now about this deal, how the United States not only voted for this deal at the United Nations Security Council, but actually sponsored the resolution. Secretary Kerry claims that should Congress disapprove of this deal, we would be in noncompliance with all of the other countries in the world. He claims that there will be no nations standing with us on our sanctions or opposition to Iran. Well I say we let the nations of the world decide for themselves. Let’s give the world the option—we’ve stood alone before. Do you want to do business with Iran or with the United States? We have stood alone many times in history when it meant doing the right thing. The American people, and the fine people of Georgia who are calling and writing into my office every day, are uncomfortable with this nuclear deal for Iran. And they are uncomfortable with our future under its provisions. So I say to this Administration that you cannot circumvent the American people with this nuclear deal. Congress will have our say. We worked hard for this 60-day review period and I will do my part to muster the 67 required to disapprove a deal that leaves Iran as a nuclear threshold state in a little more than a decade. This 60-day oversight period is the result of a bipartisan effort in the House and Senate, protecting the balance of the three branches of government. Now we must act together to protect our country and our world from a very bad actor like Iran from ever becoming a nuclear weapons state.”
07.23.2015	07.23.15 Senator David Perdue Introduces Fiscally Responsible Highway Bill Amendment WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor about introducing a fiscally responsible amendment to the highway bill that would simply match the authorization period with the available funding. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Georgians sent me to Washington to help solve our fiscal crisis, not make it worse. As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, I am working every day to find smarter ways to prioritize our spending. That way we can support critical functions of the federal government like funding our national highway system. Make no mistake: I support funding infrastructure, but we must do it responsibly. Transportation is a top priority as it supports a robust economy and it is one of the responsibilities the federal government is charged with in executing under the Constitution. As we continue to debate the highway bill in the Senate, I am committed to finding the right funding, and enough funding, for our critical infrastructure needs. As proposed, the highway bill authorizes spending for the next six years, yet only funds these programs for the next three years. Passing responsibility over to the next Congress to find additional funding mechanisms for the remaining three years is unacceptable. It’s what got us in this debt crisis in the first place. Some of my colleagues have suggested that this is simply the way the Senate has acted in the past. Yeah, I got that, and again that’s what got us here. That may be true, but it doesn’t make it right. I wasn’t sent to Washington to accept the status quo. A serious long-term solution needs to be fully funded, not filled with half-empty promises that can’t be kept or could add to our national debt. I am working to find a responsible way forward, in order to provide Georgia and other states, with more certainty through a longer-term solution, instead of settling for just another short-term fix. Today, I am introducing an amendment to simply match the authorization period with the available funding. Sounds basic, sounds simple. It’s what I have to do in my home budget. It’s what most Americans have to do. If they don’t have the money, they don’t spend it. This amendment ensures that Congress is not authorizing spending programs beyond a point where there is no money to pay for them in the future. I urge my colleagues to join me in breaking Washington of its chronic overspending problem. And I urge my colleagues to support a fiscally responsible highway bill that matches the length of authorization with the funding mechanisms. That way we can continue to fund our critical infrastructure projects without compromising our conservative budget principles.”
07.22.2015	07.22.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Condemn Disturbing Planned Parenthood Videos, Call for Investigation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today signed a letter along with 48 other senators to the Obama administration following the release of video footage by the Center for Medical Progress depicting senior Planned Parenthood Federation of America executives discussing in gruesome detail the organization’s role in the harvesting of the organs of unborn babies. Senators Isakson and Perdue also applauded the steps being taken in Georgia to review Planned Parenthood’s practices in the state. In the letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, the Senators draw attention to the legal, ethical, and policy issues raised by the footage and call on Burwell to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations into these questions. Planned Parenthood is a recipient of federal grant money. “The footage raises a number of questions about the practices of the organization, including whether they are in compliance with federal laws regulating both the use of fetal tissue and partial-birth abortions,” the Senators wrote. “In addition to questions about Planned Parenthood’s compliance with applicable federal law and medical ethics, we believe the footage prompts important policy questions surrounding the issue of abortions permitted so late in a pregnancy – sometimes even later than five months – that an unborn baby’s organs can be identified and harvested.” Senators Isakson and Perdue also requested that the Secretary confirm that she will undertake “a thorough internal review of the compliance of the Department and Planned Parenthood – one of the Department’s grantees – with all relevant and applicable federal statutes, regulations, and other requirements.” “The government should not be in the practice of funding Planned Parenthood or any abortions in the first place, and in 2012, I voted to end all taxpayer funding to this organization,” said Senator Isakson. “This video is incredibly disturbing and I applaud the steps taken by the state of Georgia to ensure this abhorrent practice is not occurring in our state.” “These videos of senior Planned Parenthood officials are incredibly disturbing and Planned Parenthood, or anyone involved in such reprehensible behavior, should be held accountable,” said Senator Perdue. “I expect the Department of Health and Human Services and Planned Parenthood to fully cooperate with all ensuing investigations, including Georgia’s joint review of clinics in our state. I am proudly pro-life and will continue to support legislation, like the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, that protects unborn babies and preserves life.” On July 16, 2015, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal ordered a review of the practices of Planned Parenthood’s five clinics in the state by both the Department of Community Health and the Department of Public Health. Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens has announced his office stands ready to assist in the probe, as well as with any necessary legal steps that may need to be taken. Senators Isakson and Perdue joined calls for a comprehensive congressional investigation. Full text of the Senators’ letter, which was led by Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, can be found here.
07.21.2015	07.21.15 Senator David Perdue Fights to End Sanctuary Jurisdictions, Proudly Cosponsors Kate’s Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today highlighted the negative impacts of President Obama’s lawless immigration system and sanctuary policies on families across our country, including the Inman family from Georgia. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. “In 2000, in my home state, we had a 16-year-old kid, Dustin Inman, killed by an illegal immigrant,” said Senator Perdue. “Today, 15 years later, the perpetrator of that crime is still at large. This is unconscionable when you hear the stories of these families, but we could bring thousands in here. It is time for us to do something.” U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sarah Saldaña testified against requiring sanctuary jurisdictions to transfer detainees to federal custody for deportation because they feared it would jeopardize their relationship with local law enforcement. “I’m not worried about relationships, I’m worried about results. And right now, we’ve got cities not adhering to federal law,” Senator Perdue responded. “I think that’s a tremendous problem.” Background: Senator Perdue continues to fight back against President Obama’s lawless immigration actions and voted to defund executive amnesty five times on the Senate floor. Additionally, Senator Perdue co-sponsored several bills to stop sanctuary jurisdictions and further protect families: • Establishing Mandatory Minimums for Illegal Reentry Act, referred to as “Kate’s Law,” to establish a 5-year mandatory minimum for reentry offenses. • Keep Our Communities Safe Act to strengthen the requirements for the detention and removal of illegal aliens. • Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act to withhold federal funding for any jurisdictions that refuse to comply with federal law. Recently, Senator Perdue also sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson with specific questions regarding the legality of sanctuary cities, and has not received an official response.
07.21.2015	07.21.15 PROTECT YOUR WALLET: My Piece On The CFPB Monitoring Your Spending Habits Tuesday, July 21, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke on the Senate floor about the security risks created by the Dodd-Frank Act, legislation enacted five years ago. Senator Perdue specifically called for Congressional oversight of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) an agency collecting an alarming amount of personal financial information on American consumers. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Five years ago today, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Following the 2008 financial crisis, Washington passed the 2,300 page bill creating more burdensome regulations that did not solve the crisis, and in many ways made it worse. You’re going to hear a lot about the failures of the Dodd-Frank Act over the next few years. What was intended to rein in five major banks who lead us into trouble in the 2008 crisis, has created unintended consequences that are effecting thousands of small town regional banks across our country. I rise today to speak about one agency created by the Dodd-Frank law, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – or the CFPB. While many Americans may not have heard of the CFPB before, they will in the future. This agency touches every aspect of people’s lives, from credit card records, mortgage applications, student loans, car sales, and much more. The CFPB seemingly knows more about American consumers than we know about the very agency that is supposed to be protecting us According to a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), every month the CFPB scrubs data on credit card transactions, debit card transactions, consumer mortgage loans, car loans, and hundreds of thousands of other personal financial information. This leads to several questions. Why are they collecting this information? How does collecting credit card statements help protect consumers? How secure is all this data? Unfortunately, we know very little about what the CFPB is doing with all of this sensitive information, except looking for additional opportunities to regulate. Remember, before 2009 we already had six prudential regulators mandated among other things, to protect the consumer. And yet, as a result of 2008, instead of streamlining and consolidating, we actually added a seventh prudential regulator charged with consumer protection, the CFPB. Today, the CFPB operates on top of the existing regulators in addition to, not in replace of, these agencies and duplicating efforts among these other agencies. By design, Dodd-Frank ensured that the CFPB doesn’t have the same oversight controls as other agencies. Currently, Congress doesn’t even have control over how the bureau spends its funds or even is appropriated. The CFPB operates outside of the regular appropriations process of Congress – which other independent agencies like the Securities & Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Protection and Safety Commission, and others – are all subject to. Why would any government agency with access to that much consumer data be unaccountable to Congress? Recently, I introduced legislation to help shed more light on this agency and bring the CFPB under the appropriations process of the U.S. Congress. The sheer volume of consumer data being collected by the CFPB is concerning and ripe for abuse. In fact, the GAO and the Federal Reserve Inspector General both have warned about the need for increased security. Without full Congressional oversight, how can we be sure this consumer data is secure? What kind of records does the CFPB keep? How would we know if it has been compromised? We already have seen the devastating effects of data breaches all over our federal government and the damage its doing to the American people. Across all sectors of government, including the most recent OPM data breach impacting millions of Americans and some of our intelligence assets abroad, we’ve seen the potential exposure of extreme national security sensitive information. Also, we recently had a debate about privacy regarding the NSA metadata program. Many of my colleagues expressed outrage for the scope of the NSA program even when the mission was protecting national security. We are now talking about an agency collecting massive amounts of personal consumer data. Many times more data than the NSA programs. While the CFPB’s goal claims to be consumer protection, for all we know the information they’re collecting is even more susceptible to security threats and security breaches. If there is one thing we can agree upon, we need to make sure all American’s personal information is safe and secure – especially from Washington. If some were upset about privacy in the NSA debate, we should certainly be paying attention to what the CFPB is doing with this personal information today. Getting the CFPB under Congressional oversight should not be a partisan issue. In order to protect consumers, we need to know what’s going on at the very government agency tasked with protecting them. That’s why we need to put in place more transparency, not less. More control, more oversight. We can start by bringing the CFPB under Congressional oversight immediately so we can actually protect consumers, and stop the potential for abuse, fraud, or identity theft. While this agency was originally designed to protect consumers, one can only wonder how Washington, collecting so much personal information, will actually protect them? Mr. President, I will be speaking much more on this topic as the weeks go by. Let it be said tonight, that on the fifth anniversary of Dodd-Frank, we are beginning to look at the unintended consequences of this rogue agency, the CFPB.”
07.20.2015	07.20.15 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue: Smarter Steps To Strengthen Our National Security Smarter Steps To Strengthen Our National Security Savannah Morning News July 18, 2015 By Senator David Perdue http://bit.ly/1LmSQiO We live in an increasingly dangerous world. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I get daily updates on what I believe is an emerging global security crisis. We have witnessed the brutal rise of ISIS, which is still taking advantage of power vacuums in the Middle East and North Africa. The threat of a nuclear Iran is further disrupting the region, while the Iranian regime is funding terrorism and the Assad regime in Syria. Meanwhile, traditional powers are aggressively posturing on two other fronts. China is antagonizing our allies on the Pacific Rim, and Russia is testing the resolve of our NATO alliance. With multiple threats to global security from adversaries who only respect displays of strength, our country, the leader of the free world, is headed in a direction where we will have the smallest Army since World War II. Now, President Obama and the Department of Defense have announced plans to cut 40,000 troops. What kind of message does this send to the world? I have received a lot of calls from Georgians who are baffled and outraged by this news. I share their concerns. We should be strengthening our national security efforts and bolstering our military readiness. Instead, President Obama’s policies are confusing our allies and emboldening our enemies. The reduction of forces announcement raises another critical issue. In the past six years, the federal government spent $21.5 trillion, but $8 trillion of that was borrowed. That means roughly 37 cents of every dollar the government spent was borrowed, including what we spent on our military. We cannot continue this irresponsible trend. Working on the Senate Budget Committee, I am fighting every day to rein in spending, while keeping Americans safe. We are working to set smarter budget priorities and find ways to get rid of waste and inefficiencies before cutting our military back even more. The convergence of a domestic fiscal crisis and a global security crisis is a sobering reality, and they must be solved simultaneously but not by pitting one against the other. In order to have a strong foreign policy, we need a strong military supported by a strong and vibrant economy. Having recently visited our troops in the Middle East and in meeting with our military leaders at Fort Stewart a few weeks ago, I can tell you we have the very best of America putting their lives on the line to protect our families and communities from our enemies. Georgia’s numerous military communities are made up of some of the finest, smartest, and bravest people I have ever met. They are true American heroes committed to defending our freedoms. They deserve our unequivocal support. One of the primary responsibilities bestowed upon us by the Constitution, is to provide for the defense of our nation. We must maintain a military force so strong that no enemy in its right mind would challenge us, and those who dare, have no hope in defeating us. As Gen. George Washington said, “To be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace.” Indeed, maintaining a strong national defense can deter aggression. I urge President Obama to reconsider these proposed troop cuts, set responsible budget priorities, and finally put in place a coherent military strategy before putting any more of our men and women in harm’s way.
07.20.2015	07.20.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Georgia Sailor, Randall Smith WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the tragic shootings in Chattanooga, Tennessee and the death of Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith of Rossville, Georgia: “This weekend, our state and nation lost another patriot, Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith of Rossville, Georgia. He was a proud father of three girls and a brave man who loved his family and his country. I join my fellow Georgians in mourning both Randall Smith and Skip Wells, and all those lost in the tragic, senseless shootings in Chattanooga.”
07.20.2015	07.20.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on U.N. Security Council Vote on Iran Deal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the following statement regarding the United Nations Security Council vote on the Iran nuclear deal: “After capitulating to Iran’s demands, President Obama and Secretary Kerry sidelined the American people by advancing the Iran deal today in a United Nations Security Council vote without Congressional review. The Obama Administration claims this deal makes Americans safer and stops a nuclear Iran, when in reality it does neither. This deal lifts sanctions on Iran without requiring any real change in behavior by the Iranian regime. As Iranians still chant ‘death to America’ and ‘death to Israel’ in the streets, I’m skeptical of any deal that Iran touts as a win. Congress should react by sending a strong message to Tehran acknowledging this agreement isn’t good enough for the American people. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I will work to build bipartisan consensus for the 67 votes needed to shut down this deal.”
07.17.2015	07.17.15 Senator David Perdue Statement On Chattanooga Shootings WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement on the shootings in Chattanooga: “Today we stand with the all those impacted by the senseless shootings in Chattanooga. Among those lost was an American hero, U.S. Marine Lance Corporal Skip Wells from Georgia who was a graduate of Sprayberry High School in Cobb County and studied at Georgia Southern University. At a young age, Wells courageously answered the call of duty and enlisted in the Marines to protect our country. His loss is felt across our state and nation, and I join my fellow Georgians in lifting the Wells family up in prayer.”
07.17.2015	07.17.15 Senator David Perdue: Paramount President Obama Honors 60-Day Congressional Review Period WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding the scheduled United Nations Security Council vote on the Iran nuclear agreement: "President Obama's attempt to circumvent Congress and hastily move forward with a United Nations Security Council vote on the Iran nuclear agreement is outrageous. From day one, President Obama and Secretary Kerry capitulated to Iran's demands and attempted to avoid Congressional oversight at every turn. Now it seems clear that the Obama Administration always intended to bypass Congress by moving through the United Nations before the mandated 60-day Congressional review period. In fact, the Obama Administration has still not submitted all of the required documentation specified in the Bipartisan Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. “Since this deal has the potential to start a nuclear arms race in the most volatile region of the world, prematurely lifting any sanctions is a deal breaker. President Obama's own National Security Advisor, Susan Rice, admitted earlier this week that up to $140 billion in economic sanctions could flow back to Iran and end up in the hands of terrorists and rogue regimes. It remains paramount that President Obama honors the 60-day Congressional review period and ensures the American people have a final say on this dangerous deal."
07.16.2015	07.16.15 Senator David Perdue Votes To End Washington Control Of Education, Stop Common Core WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted in favor of the Every Child Achieves Act, S. 1177, legislation that stops Washington’s control of our education system and ends the federal mandate for Common Core: “Today, Congress took significant steps to end Washington’s control of education and return power to the state and local level where it belongs. This bill stops the federal government from coercing states into adopting Common Core and allows states to develop curriculum plans that fit the needs of their students. It also takes money out of the hands of federal bureaucrats and puts it back in the hands of educators, preventing President Obama and the Department of Education from controlling our classrooms from Washington. “Our children should not have to wait another school year for Congress to act, and I’m encouraged by the bold steps taken today to move our education system in the right direction. While this is a huge step for our students, we still have more work to do, and I will continue to fight for conservative solutions to improve education in Georgia and across the country.” Watch Senator Perdue’s video statement on education reform and view the amendments Senator Perdue supported this week.
07.15.2015	07.15.15 Senator David Perdue: Getting Washington Out Of Our Classrooms WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted the importance of a quality education in order for our students to succeed and the conservative solutions he is championing in the U.S. Senate to empower parents, teachers, and local school leaders when it comes to education decisions. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “A quality education is critical to our kids’ success. I’ve seen that firsthand my entire life. My Mom and Dad were school teachers. I married one, too. One of my first jobs was with the Head Start Program helping kids learn to read. That experience never leaves you. It only reinforces how important it is that our children not fall behind. Once they do, we know that students are less likely to graduate high school or even find a job. I’ve also seen the frustration our teachers face with Washington’s one-size-fits-all mandates. I can assure you that our parents and teachers know much more about our children’s education needs than bureaucrats in Washington. Georgians sent me to Washington to fight for local control of education choices. Today, we have an opportunity to do just that in Congress. I am encouraged that the Senate is actually working to put in place conservative solutions I’ve been talking about for some time. First, get money out of the hands of federal bureaucrats and back to the classrooms with no strings attached. We need to direct decision making back to the local level so our schools are best equipped to help each child succeed. Second, stop the federal mandate for Common Core. The federal government should not force states to adopt specific academic standards or reward one over another for doing so. States and school districts should determine the best curriculum for their students. Third, we need to end federal requirements for high stakes testing. Instead of teaching to the test, we should empower our teachers to meet the needs of each individual student. Finally, we cannot allow President Obama and the Department of Education to continue to go unchecked. For too long, out of touch federal bureaucrats have run our education system, and look at the results. We need to act right now in order to rein in this overreach and shrink Washington’s role in education. These are the principles I am fighting for as we debate an important education bill right now on the floor of the United States Senate. As a parent, and now a grandparent, my goal is to empower parents and teachers to do what’s best for our children, and finally get Washington out of our classrooms and out of our way.”
07.15.2015	07.15.15 Senator David Perdue Champions Conservative Amendments During Education Reform Debate WASHINGTON, D.C. –Senator David Perdue (R-GA) is a vocal critic of Washington’s one-size-fits-all education mandates and continues to champion conservative education solutions in Congress. As the Every Child Achieves Act, S.R.1177, is debated in the U.S. Senate, Senator Perdue has co-sponsored and supported numerous amendments that further reduce Washington’s role in our education system and strengthen state and local control by empowering parents, teachers, and local school leaders. Specifically, Senator Perdue supported several amendments which would: • End All Federal Testing Requirements: End all mandated federal testing outright, putting testing decisions and discretion back in the hands of states. (Senator Cruz, Senator Perdue Co-sponsored) • Stop Federal Mandate For Common Core: Stop the Education Secretary from mandating Common Core and intervening in any academic standards or curriculum development in states and local school districts. (Senator Crapo, Senator Perdue Co-sponsored) • Remove Washington's Grip on Grant Money (A-PLUS Amendment): Consolidates all federal education dollars into one fund so states and local school districts can spend their grant money in new and innovative ways. (Senator Daines) • Protect Student Privacy: Establish a committee on student privacy to keep our kids safe and their personal information private. (Senator Hatch) • Allow Parent Opt-Outs For All Federal Testing: Grant all parents access to student testing information and make available the ability to opt their students out of all federal testing. (Senator Lee) • Give Parents Choice For Testing: Require schools to notify parents about any assessments and testing and their rights to opt their children out of mandated testing. (Senator Isakson) • Strengthen Local Control Of Budget Decisions: Prevent the Education Secretary from interfering in local school administration or budgeting decisions in states and school districts. (Senator Fischer) • Help Students Save: Allows students to simultaneously receive college-credit from courses taught by college approved teachers in secondary education, allowing students to save money on expensive college credits and get a head start on earning a degree. (Senator Gardner) A vote on final passage of the Every Child Achieves Act is expected later this week.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Announcement of Nuclear Agreement with Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement today regarding the announcement of a nuclear agreement with Iran: "Let's be clear, this agreement is not final. Georgians and the American people, through Congressional representation, must sign off on the negotiated terms, and because of our bipartisan efforts Congress will have 60 days to do so. As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, I will review this agreement with the utmost scrutiny to ensure we remain steadfast in our efforts to halt the expansion of nuclear arms now and down the road. "Right now, I remain extremely concerned that this deal does not go far enough to fully prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapons capability and ensure anytime, anywhere inspections access of all nuclear and military sites. If this requires walking away from such a deal and strengthening sanctions, I will encourage President Obama to consider this course of action. To be clear, rejecting this agreement is not condoning war, it is standing firm for peace and against Iranian aggression."
07.14.2015	07.14.15 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Demands Cost Benefit Analysis of State Department Facility WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations State Department Subcommittee, has been calling for an independent review of a State Department proposal to construct a brand new training center in Virginia, instead of using an established federal training facility in Georgia that could save taxpayers millions of dollars. Senator Perdue led a joint Georgia Delegation letter requesting additional information from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and introduced a provision that was included in the State Department Authorization bill. Similar language was included in the Senate Appropriations process. Recently, Senator Perdue visited the FLETC facility in Brunswick, Georgia and continues to push for Congressional oversight of this process. Read more about Senator Perdue’s efforts below. The Washington Examiner: “From a business perspective, the lack of transparency coming from the State Department is alarming. If this is the federal government's normal bidding process, it is not surprising Washington cannot complete timely, competitive projects,” Perdue told the Washington Examiner. “Using an existing training facility rather than constructing a brand new, costly facility is clearly the fiscally responsible decision. Given Washington's fiscal crisis, it is absurd we are even having this conversation,” he added. Perdue fought to include a provision in the State Department Authorization Bill in June that called for a neutral review of the decision-making process that led the agency to settle on its plan to build training grounds from scratch. (Southern lawmakers spar over location of State Dept. facility, 7/14/15) The Brunswick News: U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter, R-1, and Georgia’s two Republican senators — Sens. Johnny Isakson and David Perdue — are doing what they can to get the government to stop and smell the federal debt before creating more debt. They are being assisted by other members of the state’s delegation to Washington, by both Republicans and Democrats. But this is not just a serious issue for those who speak for Georgia. It is a matter of concern for every American and every member of Congress. It is the safety of all and the security of all that is at stake whenever the government starts talking about adding to the mountain of bills we cannot pay with our own labors. (Training center duplication not fiscally responsible, 7/08/15) Savannah Morning News: Sen. David Perdue announced efforts to get documents from the State Department about cost comparisons between building a training facility in Virginia or using the existing federal facility in Brunswick…“We need an honest cost-benefit analysis of these facilities rather than an apples-to-oranges comparison that hides how much it could cost taxpayers down the road,” he said. “This provision ensures that Congress will see all documents associated with both the OMB and State analysis in a timely fashion.” (Perdue joins quest for State Dept. training estimates, 6/11/15) Atlanta Journal-Constitution: Georgia Republican Sen. David Perdue added another log to the flame by getting language into a State Department authorization bill that directs the Obama administration’s Office of Management and Budget to release its internal cost estimate. “Here we have multiple federal agencies giving different cost assessments with no justification. Despite an initial conclusion by OMB that expanding FLETC was the more cost-effective option, the Director of OMB deferred their decision to the State Department, who then decided they wanted a new facility.” (Morning Jolt, 6/10/15)
07.08.2015	07.08.15 Senator David Perdue Responds to Proposed Army Cuts WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, issued the following statement regarding the proposed Army restructuring by the Department of Defense: “When national security alerts are at an all-time high and ISIS is recruiting new terrorists daily, scaling back our military is nonsensical. Today, I spoke directly with Secretary of the Army John McHugh to express my concern for this proposed cut back, specifically the impact on Fort Benning, Fort Stewart, and Fort Gordon. Georgia’s strong military community cannot be significantly reduced at a time when we need it most. “Furthermore, these cuts are an example of Washington’s inability to responsibly budget. Funding our military should be our top priority. In order to combat our growing global security crisis, we need a strong military supported by a strong economy and a budget that reflects these priorities. I urge President Obama, as our Commander in Chief, to reconsider his dangerous downsizing and finally provide a coherent military strategy.”
07.08.2015	07.08.15 Senator Perdue to DHS: “Sanctuary Jurisdictions” Endanger Public Safety WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), along with several other Senate Judiciary Committee members, is pressing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for information about its program aimed at exempting illegal immigrants from our nation’s laws, posing direct threats to public safety. “Your Department has refused to confront so-called ‘sanctuary’ jurisdictions, endangering the public safety and leading to tragedies such as the recent killings of Kathryn Steinle in San Francisco, California, and Angelica Martinez in Laredo, Texas,” said the Senators in a letter to DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. “Yet, rather than enhance the successful Secure Communities program, confront sanctuary jurisdictions, defend federal law enforcement’s legitimate use of detainers, request additional resources, or ask Congress for a legislative solution, your Department has unilaterally designed a program that will endanger the American people.” In the letter, Senator Perdue asks Secretary Johnson 13 questions about the Priority Enforcement Program and requests a response by July 21, 2015. View the questions and text of the letter here. Since day one, Senator Perdue has been adamant about securing our nation’s borders and challenging President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty. He has voted numerous times to defund executive amnesty, signed an amicus brief challenging President Obama’s executive amnesty, and demanded an explanation from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) about their plans to process applications for deferred deportation in an electronic system designed to process applications for legal immigrants.
07.07.2015	07.07.15 Senator David Perdue: Empty Negotiation Terms Should Result in an Empty Negotiation Table WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement urging Secretary of State John Kerry to suspend nuclear negotiations with Iran: “By running out the negotiating clock again, Iran has signaled to the world they are not serious about dismantling their nuclear weapons program. From red lines to deadline extensions, the Obama Administration has been dangerously accommodating and we cannot continue to reward Iran’s bad behavior. It is time for us to stand firm instead of moving the goal posts yet again. Iran’s empty negotiation terms should result in an empty negotiation table, which is why I urge Secretary Kerry to suspend nuclear negotiations with Iran. We must return to a position of strength and insist on a better deal. If one cannot be achieved, then the United States should walk away and enforce even stronger sanctions.”
07.07.2015	07.07.15 Senator David Perdue Introduces Georgia Avian Bird Flu Expert at Agriculture Committee Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today highlighted Georgians’ concerns over recent avian bird flu outbreaks during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing. Senator Perdue introduced one of the hearing witnesses, Dr. David Swayne, a renowned Avian Influenza expert and Director of the National Poultry Research Center in Athens, Georgia. “We are certainly honored to have what many would consider the foremost authority on Avian Influenza in the country here for this very important hearing,” said Senator Perdue. “Dr. David Swayne knows the devastating impact of HPAI and Georgians’ concerns about what could happen if poultry stock was exposed in our state to this devastating strain of bird flu. It is important for all of us to adequately and quickly inform producers about their options and the most up-to-date scientific data in the next few months.” “The widespread presence of HPAI in wild birds provides an ongoing threat to the U.S. poultry industry,” said Dr. Swayne. “We do have a body of research data some generated by the University of Georgia on wild bird ecology with influenza viruses. That particular group, the Southeast Cooperative of Wildlife Disease Study, is specifically working on trying to identify the viruses that might come back in the migration of the fall, that impacts not only Georgia but the southeast and Atlantic coast flyways.” Watch Senator Perdue’s opening statement here and download pictures from the hearing here.
07.06.2015	07.06.15 Georgia Congressional Delegation Calls for Federal Review of Proposed State Department Training Facility WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) along with several member of Georgia’s U.S. House of Representatives delegation are calling for a federal review of a Department of State proposal to construct a costly new training center from scratch in Virginia instead of using an established federal training facility in Georgia that could save taxpayers millions of dollars. The proposed Virginia location for a training center for Foreign Service personnel would require taxpayers to fund the construction of an entirely new facility – a decision that the Office of Management and Budget admits was made by the Obama administration without the necessary cost-benefit analysis of options. Senators Isakson and Perdue are calling on the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a complete, independent analysis of all options for meeting the State Department’s training needs, including augmenting an existing facility – the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, or FLETC for short, in Brunswick, Ga. – that the Georgia delegation argues could achieve significant cost savings. “As stewards of taxpayer dollars, we want to improve diplomatic security training efforts in a cost-effective, timely manner,” writes the Georgia Congressional delegation in a letter to the GAO. “We believe a thorough and impartial review of proposals is necessary to determine the option that best addresses State’s needs in a fiscally responsible manner.” In a 2008 report to Congress, the State Department determined it needed to consolidate its existing security training facilities to improve instructional efficiency and to provide training to an estimated 9,000-10,000 Diplomatic Security and other State personnel. The Department of State announced its interest in moving forward with plans to construct the new Foreign Affairs Security Training Center, known as FAST-C, in Blackstone, Va. The State Department’s initial proposal for the construction of FAST-C was estimated to cost over $950 million. The State Department later reduced the scope of the project and lowered the estimated cost to $413 million. Senators Isakson, Perdue and members of the Georgia delegation are calling for a thorough and impartial review of the State Department’s existing proposals for its training center given the vast cost difference based on estimates by the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security between constructing the facility from scratch in Blackstone, Va., at the cost of $413 million, compared to estimated $272 million to retrofit the existing training center in Georgia. “We have concerns that this scaled down version leaves critical infrastructure needs, such as boarding, medical, dining, and recreational facilities unaddressed,” they continued. “We are also concerned that costs would likely increase significantly after the initial groundbreaking to address these gaps in infrastructure, and potentially additional training needs. “The proposals we have seen for FLETC and FAST-C vary considerably in cost, scope, and projected completion time. We believe that due to these significant differences, an impartial review is imperative before the administration moves forward with either option. As such, we respectfully request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) review both State’s FAST-C proposal and the DHS proposal to expand FLETC’s Glynco site to meet State’s requirements.” A copy of the letter from Senators Isakson and Perdue along with U.S. Representatives Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA-01), Sanford Bishop, (D-GA-02), Lynn Westmoreland, (R-GA-03), Tom Price, (R-GA-06), Rob Woodall, (R-GA-07), Austin Scott, (R-GA-08), Jody Hice, (R-GA-10), Rick Allen, (R-GA-12), Barry Loudermilk, (R-GA-11), David Scott, (D-GA-13), and Tom Graves, (R-GA-14), to U.S. Government Accountability Office Comptroller General Gene Dodaro is available here. Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to service State’s training needs by augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 95 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and driving tracks to meet the requirements of State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $272 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. In April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C in Blackstone, Va. However, in a meeting with Senate staff in May 2015, OMB explained that the State Department never provided the necessary information to OMB, or to FLETC, to allow for an accurate comparison of the two options despite OMB making the specific request that it do so. In that same meeting, OMB stated that the State Department has “artificially constrained the analysis” of the FAST-C proposal, and that OMB ultimately chose to simply defer the decisions to the State Department. It appears therefore that OMB failed to conduct a sufficiently rigorous analysis, in significant part due to a lack of cooperation by the State Department.
07.01.2015	07.01.15 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue: Usher The Return of The Citizen Legislator By Imposing Term Limits Usher The Return of The Citizen Legislator By Imposing Term Limits By Senator David Perdue The Augusta Chronicle http://bit.ly/1Jv0Ue6 For too long, career politicians in Washington, D.C., have focused more on advancing their own careers than helping the people they are elected to serve. More than eight in 10 Americans believe that our political leaders are more interested in protecting their own power and privilege than doing what is right for the American people. THAT’S JUST WRONG. Now, more than ever, we should institute term limits for Washington politicians and return to the concept of citizen legislators. Our nation has built up an $18 trillion debt. We face more than $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities – related to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, federal pensions and interest on the debt. Not only is the economy struggling, but Washington’s constant power grab through sweeping rules and regulations continues with complete disregard for the people they affect. From the Internal Revenue Service to the Environmental Protection Agency, big government is taxing and regulating almost every aspect of our lives. Too many people are tangled in a web of dependency on government programs when what we need is to empower the individual. We’ve got to change course before it’s too late. But we cannot get our country back on track when career politicians in Washington cling to failed ideas of the past, and cater to special interests that keep them in office. I believe our Founding Fathers were committed to the concept of citizen legislators, and never imagined the rise of the career politicians who have created the constant gridlock crippling Washington today. Historically, citizen legislators work outside politics and bring a fresh perspective to how burdensome government policies can negatively affect people’s everyday lives. WHILE IN OFFICE, citizen legislators apply their practical experience to solving our nation’s toughest problems. Because they only serve a short time, citizen legislators are concerned about solving problems with a sense of urgency instead of kicking the can down the road because it makes for good politics. As promised, one of my first official actions as Georgia’s newest senator was to co-sponsor a constitutional amendment imposing term limits on members of Congress – specifically, three terms in the House of Representatives and two terms in the Senate. I have personally committed myself to no more than two terms in the Senate. Supporting term limits for elected officials is not a partisan idea. In fact, several presidents across the ideological spectrum and throughout American history – Jefferson, Lincoln, Truman, Eisenhower and Kennedy – have supported term limits for Congress. At the state level, Georgia already has citizen legislators who work full time and attend the legislative session only part of the year to serve their communities. It won’t be easy to institute term limits at the federal level, however. The fight for term limits has been and will continue to be an uphill battle because of career politicians who survive on the status quo. THIS FLAWED SENIORITY system is based on years worked, but success should be measured based on the results produced. What we need in Washington are people more concerned about the next generation than the next election. If we want to create a brighter future for Georgians and all Americans, we must continue to fight for real change through term limits. I will fight every day against Washington insiders, and hope you’ll join me in calling for the return of the citizen legislator.
06.30.2015	06.30.15 Senator David Perdue: Iran Moving Dangerously Closer To Nuclear Weapon WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on the Iran nuclear negotiations: “It’s no surprise that yet again, President Obama and Iran’s negotiators have failed to meet the June 30 deadline for a deal on the future of Iran’s nuclear program. Every step of the way, Iran has refused to accept reasonable terms, and instead, is moving dangerously closer to a nuclear weapon. “Iran is clearly trying to buy time, and is building more centrifuges in the meantime. Iran’s leaders have refused ‘anytime, anywhere’ inspections, which are necessary to ensure Iran doesn’t continue to develop nuclear capabilities. Iran also refuses to admit to past nuclear weapons-related activities. Let’s not forget that Iran’s nuclear program is in direct violation of multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions, and they’ve violated their international nuclear obligations since the 1980s—from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) to the 2013 Joint Plan of Action (JPOA). “President Obama has given Iran economic relief that makes them less inclined to reach a good deal. Now is not the time to let Iran run out the clock. If Iran is not serious about reaching a deal, we should not continue to reward bad behavior.”
06.26.2015	06.26.15 Senator David Perdue Stands With Charleston Community CHARLESTON, SC – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today joined South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott along with other Members of Congress for the funeral of the victims in Charleston. “Today, I stand with the people of Charleston as we pray for the families who lost their loved ones in this unthinkable tragedy. We’ve seen the Charleston community and the entire state come together to heal and move forward. In the face of such adversity, the leaders of South Carolina and my Senate colleagues Tim Scott and Lindsey Graham have inspired us all to focus on what unites us and not what divides us. Today, we are united in our compassion for the victims’ families and will always be united as Americans.”
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Senator David Perdue: Obamacare Still A Disastrous Law That Must Be Repealed WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement about the Supreme Court’s decision on Obamacare: “Today’s ruling doesn’t change the fact that Obamacare is a disaster and should be entirely repealed. Right now, many Georgians are seeing their premiums skyrocket by double-digits, their hours cut back because of the employer mandate, and less access to the doctors of their choice because of the empty promises made by President Obama. These aren’t theoretical problems discussed in a courtroom. They are real-world economic problems caused by Obamacare. I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a patient-centered alternative.”
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Senator David Perdue: Trade Must Be Transparent And Accountable To The American People WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on Senate passage of Trade Promotional Authority (TPA): “Free trade creates opportunities for Georgians and supports more than a million jobs in my home state. That’s why I supported Trade Promotional Authority (TPA), which gives Congress more oversight than ever before in any trade deals negotiated by the President. “TPA holds President Obama completely accountable to transparency and oversight measures instituted by Congress. That way, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), or any other trade deal, must undergo the scrutiny of Congress and be made open to the American people before they can take effect. While TPP negotiations are ongoing, when there is a final agreement, it must be made public for a full 60 days before Congress even votes on it. “If ever there is even a hint that President Obama does not play by the strict rules outlined by TPA, either the Senate or the House can immediately revoke his trade authority. I will continue to fight for Georgians so that their products and their ideas can reach new markets around the world.”
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Senator David Perdue: Obamacare Was Wrong From The Start WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today discussed on the Senate floor the negative impacts of Obamacare and the need to immediately repeal it. Click here to watch the video or click the image below. Transcript: “Mr. President, I rise to speak today about the greatest domestic policy train wreck that we’ve seen in my lifetime – a fundamentally flawed law that is holding back our economy and limiting people’s freedom when it comes to choices in healthcare. Of course, I’m talking about Obamacare. Obamacare was the creation of a Democratic super majority that crammed Obamacare through Congress without open debate by the American people. In the last five years since Obamacare became law, the American people have not yielded in their strong opposition. In fact, today, more than a majority of Americans continue to disapprove of this law. And there’s no wonder why. When I’m back home in Georgia, one of the most frequent and sobering concerns I hear about is the insidious, negative economic impact of this law. The consequences of Obamacare are hurting Georgians in many ways and millions of Americans. First, the individual mandate is forcing people onto Obamacare – whether they can afford it or not. Like my wife Bonnie and I, many people had their insurance plans cancelled, lost access to their preferred doctors, or were forced onto insurance plans that cost more, not less. In Georgia alone, dozens of Obamacare plans are expected to have double-digit rate hikes next year, with some people’s plans skyrocketing over 60 percent. That’s just unacceptable. Second, Obamacare’s employer mandate is causing small businesses to cut back workers hours and in some cases businesses have actually stopped hiring completely. Due to the 30-hour workweek rule in Obamacare, many people are being moved from full-time to part-time work. This is devastating to families already struggling to get from payday to payday. Without a full workweek many moms and dads are juggling multiple part-time jobs to provide for their families and try to save for the future. Next year, for example, 2.6 million people are in danger of having their hours cut because of Obamacare. Sixty percent of those individuals are female and over 60 percent are young people between the ages of 19-34. Third, given the growing aging population, Obamacare is contributing to a dangerous doctor shortage. The Association of American Medical Colleges is predicting a shortage of as many as 90,000 doctors by 2025. Another survey by the Physicians Foundation found that 81 percent of doctors describe themselves as either over-extended or at full capacity, and 44 percent said they planned to cut back on the number of patients they see, retire, work part-time or close their practice to new patients. Ultimately, Obamacare is raising costs, not lowering them. Cutting workers’ wages, not growing them. Decreasing access, not expanding it. And making it harder on the middle class, not easier. While the sentiment of the Supreme Court on Obamacare is still to be determined – one thing is crystal clear: Obamacare is hurting people and our economy. It must be fully repealed and replaced. We have got to stop allowing Washington to dictate what’s best for individuals and their families. Putting bureaucrats between patients and their doctors, between patients and their insurance provider, and between doctors and insurance providers is what created this catastrophe in the first place. Obamacare was wrong from the start. We have seen the growing unintended consequences of this flawed law in its implementation over the last five years. We have the power to change course and create a better healthcare system for all Americans. I remain committed to using every tool at our disposal to repeal Obamacare. Achieving consensus on replacing Obamacare with a patient-based alternative will require diligence and robust debate. I am hopeful that we can achieve that goal. I urge my colleagues to continue to work to not just fight against Obamacare, but to fight to protect the millions of people that are hurt by it every day. We can create a healthcare system that offers the American people affordability, transportability, and insurability. We can create commonsense healthcare policy that lowers costs and doesn’t harm the economy like Obamacare. We can create a bipartisan solution that helps people by putting patients first and getting Washington out of the way. It won’t be easy, but it is achievable. It must be achievable. For the sake of our kids and grandkids we must get rid of Obamacare once and for all.”
06.22.2015	06.22.15 Senators Kirk, Ayotte, Cotton, Perdue Introduce Just Google It Act to End Wasteful Printing of Government Documents Found Online WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), along with U.S. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Tom Cotton (R-AR), and David Perdue (R-GA), today announced the introduction of the Just Google It Act, which would eliminate the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), an outdated and duplicative government agency that prints and sells copies of government documents that can be found for free online through a simple Google search. The Department of Commerce estimates that NTIS will have an operating cost of $170 million this fiscal year. “Instead of wasting millions of dollars to buy and sell printed documents, the federal government should join the 21st Century and just Google it,” Senator Kirk said. “Eliminating a wasteful, duplicative government agency that has been obsolete since the Internet was invented is the right thing to do for the taxpayers.” “As we look for ways to address our $18 trillion debt and find cost savings across government, there's no justification for continuing to fund an agency whose mission is no longer necessary. It is long past time to eliminate this obsolete agency, which wastes more than a million taxpayer dollars each year to disseminate government reports that are already free and readily available to the public,” said Senator Ayotte. “The NTIS is a prime example of government waste. This bill is exactly the kind of efficiency we need more of in government,” Senator Cotton said. “Georgians are frustrated by the federal government because it is plagued by wasteful spending and redundancy, and the National Technical Information Service is a perfect example of both,” said Senator Perdue. “Eliminating this obsolete program is an important step on the long but essential road of making the federal government more efficient, effective, and accountable.” The NTIS, which was established in 1950, compiles federal reports and sells copies of these documents to other agencies and the public upon request. The original purpose of the NTIS – to increase government transparency and make documents available to federal agencies and the public – has been largely displaced by the Internet. A 2014 GAO study found that three-quarters of the documents added to the NTIS collection over the last two decades were available elsewhere, of which 95 percent could be found for free online through a search on Google or another search engine. The Just Google It Act, S.1636, would repeal the National Technical Information Act and dismantle the NTIS over the course of a year. The Secretary of Commerce would work with other agencies to identify any critical functions of the NTIS and transfer them to other offices within the Commerce Department.
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Senator David Perdue Supports A Strong National Defense WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today supported the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “Georgians know that the most important role of the federal government is to provide the resources necessary to keep Americans at home and abroad safe. “Right now, the United States faces a global security crisis, and it’s critical that we fund our military to maintain a strong defense. This year’s bill also achieves some important reforms that help produce cost savings so we can reinvest in military capabilities for our warfighters. “This bill reflects many Georgia priorities. The NDAA fully restores funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II, our nation’s most cost-effective plane for close air support. The bill also helps Georgia veterans by improving access to care for military beneficiaries and strengthening our state’s military bases. “As a member of the Senate Budget and Foreign Relations Committees, I will work to ensure that funding our national defense remains the top priority for the federal government. “Our world is becoming more dangerous every day, and I will continue to fight to grow our economy so that we do not need to make arbitrary cuts to our defense budget that would make us unnecessarily vulnerable.”
06.16.2015	06.16.15 Senator David Perdue: CBO Confirms Looming Fiscal Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) 2015 Long-Term Budget Outlook: “The latest report from CBO confirms that we have a fiscal crisis on our hands. Time is running out for us to deal with our national debt and put the long-term economic solutions in place to ensure that our children and grandchildren will have the same opportunities that my generation had. They do not deserve to be burdened by outrageous debt just because Washington doesn’t have the urgency to address this looming fiscal catastrophe. “We already face $18 trillion dollars of debt and over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities, including Medicare and Social Security which are headed towards insolvency. That’s why we must work now to protect our current seniors and those who need help most in these safety net programs. As the CBO report highlights, the longer we wait to act the harder it will be to make real changes. “This fiscal crisis was created by Washington dysfunction, and we cannot simply cut or tax our way out of it. We must take immediate steps to grow our economy and prioritize our federal spending by setting clear priorities. As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, I will continue to fight every day to get our fiscal house in order and our country back on track.”
06.11.2015	06.11.15 Senator David Perdue Supports Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today cosponsored the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which protects unborn babies after 20 weeks. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) is the lead sponsor. The bill has 45 cosponsors in the Senate and passed the House with a 242-184 vote. “Our nation must do more to protect innocent life and the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is an important step to protect the unborn when they can feel physical pain. It is critical that we continue to fight on behalf of those who can’t fight for themselves. “Georgians are passionate about protecting the sanctity of life, and I will continue to make sure those values are reflected in the U.S. Senate.”
06.10.2015	06.10.15 Senator David Perdue Condemns Power Grab By President Obama’s EPA Blasts Blatant Government Overreach In Judiciary Committee Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today condemned the Environmental Protection Agency’s recent water rule, Waters of the United States. In a Judiciary Committee hearing, Senator Perdue noted that the new rule from President Obama’s EPA is blatant regulatory overreach and will hurt Georgians. For example, the regulation would impact nearly 3,000 miles of roads, 1,500 miles of streams, and 1,400 miles of drainage ditches in Gwinnett County. Watch the video here. Transcript: Senator Perdue: Now turning to Waters of the U.S., I am very concerned about this. This is unprecedented. It's a radical assertion of agency jurisdiction. It would have a dramatic impact on my state, Georgia farmers particularly, but this is a letter that I received from a board of commissioners of one of the largest counties in our state. These are not radical people and the sarcasm from the other side that tells me or tells the public that anybody that disagrees with the Waters of the U.S. impending regulation is ignorant and self-serving. The marginalizing condescension is intellectually insulting to me. This is a very well thought out letter. Gwinnett County has over 3,000 miles of roads in that county, 1,500 miles of streams, almost a thousand miles of ditches on the right-of-ways of those roads, and 1,400 miles of additional drainage ditches that would come the purview of this law, and frankly the way the EPA marketed, you mentioned this earlier Ms. Steen, and promoted this rule on social media just boggles my mind. This wasn’t notice and comment rulemaking, they talked to people out there, and then they promptly ignored most of it. This wasn't notice and comment at all. This was a political campaign that the Obama Administration was running from the very get-go through the EPA, just like when they couldn't get cap-and-trade, they told the EPA to kill coal and they did it in a year. Ms. Steen, about the Waters of the U.S., have you seen other agencies behave like this in your career? You've got a long distinguished career. Can you put in context for us these actions and the dramatic broad reaching impact with the respect to this rulemaking? Ms. Ellen Steen, American Farm Bureau: I'd like to be able to do that more broadly, beyond the EPA, but my career has focused on EPA. What I can say, is that throughout my career of dealing with EPA regulations, and I've always been on the industry side, I've always been on the regulated side of the issues. Many of those issues and rulemakings have been very hotly contested over the years, but what I have never seen, even from EPA, is the level of gamesmanship and deception that I've seen going on in this rulemaking. And for those who believe that there should be an open and honest discussion with the public, with congress, an open and honest analysis on the front end of the cost and the impact of new regulations. It's frightening, and it’s disheartening, and it’s disillusioning, and no I've never seen anything like it before.
06.10.2015	06.10.15 Senator David Perdue Statement On Senator Johnny Isakson WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement: “Senator Johnny Isakson is a true statesman. When he speaks, people in Washington listen. Anyone who knows Johnny, knows that his top priority is and will always be the people of Georgia. He is a long-time champion for our veterans and Georgia values in the U.S. Senate. As my senior senator, I look forward to working together every day as we fight for Georgia and our country."
06.09.2015	06.09.15 Senator Perdue Introduces NDAA Amendments to Combat Obama’s Failed Middle East Strategy Urges Follow Through in Syria & Iran to Prevent Further Destabilization WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced two amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to combat President Obama’s failed policy in the Middle East. The first would authorize assistance to vetted moderate Syrian rebels and the second would require a comprehensive strategy to prevent Iran from creating a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. “For over four years, President Obama has failed to enact a comprehensive strategy in the Middle East, and just this week admitted that ‘we don’t yet have a complete strategy’ in the region. It is troubling that we continue to put our men and women in harm’s way without a clear plan in place,” said Senator Perdue. “Right now, ISIS continues to fill a dangerous void in the region. Meanwhile, we’re about to see moderate Syrian fighters we’ve trained and equipped return to the battlefield, without a clear strategy in place on how to assist them, as they are attacked from all sides including terrorist groups like ISIS, al-Qaeda backed al-Nusra, Hezbollah, and the Assad regime itself. “Further, in dealing with Iran, we need to beware of any grand bargain with a potential nuclear regime that will continue to support terrorism and further destabilize the region. Without real follow through on these fronts, President Obama’s incomplete strategy will only continue to embolden our enemies and make America less safe.” Senator Perdue’s Amendments: • Senator Perdue Amendment No. 1861: Supporting Vetted Syrian Opposition From Hostile Adversaries: This amendment authorizes the Secretary of Defense to provide assistance to vetted Syrian opposition, upon their return to Syria, to provide protection from hostile adversaries. This includes support for intelligence, defense, medical assistance, and logistics. • Senator Perdue Amendment No. 1842: Requiring A Strategy For A Post Iran Deal Middle East: This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense in coordination with the National Security Council, Department of State, and other relevant agencies, to produce a strategy for the Middle East in the event of a nuclear agreement with Iran. The Obama Administration must provide this strategy to Congress within 60 days of any final Iran nuclear deal.
06.09.2015	06.09.15 Senator David Perdue Calls For Full & Fair Cost Analysis of State Department Training Facility Provision Included In State Department Authorization Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, Internal Operations, and Bilateral International Development, called for an independent and impartial analysis when determining the location of its diplomatic training facility. The State Department is weighing whether to augment an existing facility – the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) – in Brunswick, Georgia, or build from scratch a more expensive training facility in Blackstone, Virginia. Senator Perdue today pushed for a provision to be included in the State Department Authorization bill to require both the OMB and State Department to provide all relevant materials to Congress. “The American people are frustrated with Washington because it never seems to give a straight answer when it comes to fiscal responsibility. Here, we have multiple federal agencies giving different cost assessments with no justification. Despite an initial conclusion by OMB that expanding FLETC was the more cost-effective option, the Director of OMB deferred their decision to the State Department, who then decided they wanted a new facility. “We need an honest cost-benefit analysis of these facilities, rather than an apples to. oranges comparison that hides how much it could cost taxpayers down the road. This provision ensures that Congress will see all documents associated with both the OMB and State analysis in a timely fashion. “While we need to ensure that our diplomats are prepared to operate in an increasingly dangerous world, we must also provide adequate training in the most cost-effective way possible. I applaud Chairman Corker for including this important provision in the State Department Authorization bill today, and I look forward to getting an updated analysis of these options before the State Department moves forward with such a costly and potentially unnecessary project.” Background: The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) initially determined that augmenting the existing FLETC facility would save over $200 million and more than $1 billion over ten years when compared to building a new facility. However, the OMB later deferred to the State Department, who preferred the new, more costly facility. The State Department initially estimated the cost of the new facility at $950 million, but then amended their estimate to $413 million, but there is concern that State may ask for additional resources from Congress due to insufficient planning for the facility’s overall needs.
06.08.2015	06.08.15 Senators Perdue and Kaine Introduce Bipartisan State Department Reform Bill Improving State Department Oversight & Accountability WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Tim Kaine (D-VA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, Internal Operations, and Bilateral International Development, today introduced the Improving Department of State Oversight Act, a bipartisan bill that will facilitate necessary changes to improve the State Department’s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to conduct more secure and more effective oversight. Currently, the OIG is not notified of all allegations of State Department wrongdoing and operates on a shared network with the State Department, making OIG information vulnerable to both internal and external threats. “Conducting Congressional oversight is critical to making Washington more accountable, and a good place to start is at the scandal-ridden State Department,” said Senator Perdue. “The State OIG must be able to conduct thorough, independent investigations on the State Department without obstruction from the very individuals who might warrant investigating. Making the OIG more independent is an important first step in turning our State Department from a liability into its proper role as a strategic foreign policy tool. This bipartisan bill will help make sure the OIG is fully independent and empowered to conduct critical oversight of the State Department’s IT systems and high-risk posts around the world.” “Effective management and accountability are key to the success of our institutions,” said Senator Kaine. “This legislation would make commonsense reforms that improve oversight at the State Department and help protect the State Department’s Office of the Inspector General IT systems from external cyber threats.” In April, Senators Perdue and Kaine led the Subcommittee’s first hearing about the ongoing challenges in performing adequate oversight of the State Department. IG Steve Linick testified that State administrators “could read, modify, delete any of our work.” The IG systems are vulnerable to external threats as well, Deputy Secretary Heather Higginbottom confirmed that the State’s IT systems “are attacked every day, thousands of times a day.” Specifically, the Improving Department of State Oversight Act requires the State Department: • Notify the State OIG of all allegations of misconduct (criminal or administrative) by State employees. • Provide the State OIG with better access to the experience and skillset of former Special Inspector General employees. • Assure independence of the State OIG’s IT systems from that of the State Department’s, to ensure integrity of internal files regarding investigations. • Require a report regarding the frequency of inspections on high-risk posts abroad. Click here to read the bill in its entirety.
06.02.2015	06.02.15 Senator David Perdue on Final Passage of USA Freedom Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today made the following statement on the current national security debate: “Our global security crisis is growing every day – ISIS continues to march across the Middle East, and the threat of terrorism at home remains very real. It’s important that our intelligence and law enforcement agencies have the critical tools they need to protect Americans from terrorism and prevent potential attacks on our soil. “Once again, Washington dysfunction prevented us from achieving the best possible policy outcome. While I worked hard to strengthen this bill, I had concerns throughout the process, and remain unsatisfied with the final product. Today’s bill does not achieve the appropriate balance between protecting our privacy and our national security.”
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Senator David Perdue Announces New Senate Offices In Atlanta & Washington To Serve Georgians WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced his new Senate office locations in Atlanta and Washington D.C. to serve the people of Georgia. “Georgians sent me to Washington to tackle our nation’s toughest issues, and they can be confident that our team will humbly serve the people of Georgia every day,” said Senator Perdue. “My top priority is to be Georgians’ voice in Washington, and I can only do my job by listening to people about the issues most important to them and their families. Working together in these new offices, along with several field representatives traveling across the state, we will ensure that all Georgians can effectively connect with our team to share their concerns on our nation’s most pressing issues.” Senator Perdue’s Atlanta, Georgia Office Location: 191 Peachtree Street NE, Suite 3250 Atlanta, GA 30303 Phone: 404-865-0087 Fax: 404-865-0311 Click HERE to view on Google Maps Senator Perdue’s Washington, D.C. Office Location: 383 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Phone: 202-224-3521 Fax: 202-228-1031 Click HERE to view on Google Maps.
05.27.2015	05.27.15 Senator Perdue: Sweeping New Waters Rule Another Massive Overreach By Washington WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after the Obama Administration’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) launched a sweeping new rule that will drastically redefine how water is subject to regulatory requirements under the Clean Water Act: “Imposing this sweeping new waters rule is another massive overreach by Washington. It is also concerning how the EPA continues to push President Obama’s partisan agenda despite strong opposition, including thousands of Georgia farmers and local leaders that directly voiced their disapproval. I share their concerns and will work tirelessly to stop such burdensome rules and regulations from negatively impacting our family farmers, small businesses, and private citizens.” Senator Perdue previously urged the EPA to rescind this rule and cosponsored bipartisan legislation to prevent this rule from taking effect. This legislation, S.1140 The Federal Water Quality Protection Act, directs the Obama Administration to issue a revised proposal to set clear limits on federal regulation of water, require consultation with states, and ensure that a thorough economic analysis is conducted. ###
05.27.2015	05.27.15 Senator Perdue Condemns Georgia Man Supporting ISIS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement regarding the individual from Augusta, Georgia who pled guilty to supporting ISIS: “Terrorism takes many forms. It is alarming to hear that an individual from Augusta was supporting ISIS in our own backyard. This is yet another reminder of the global security crisis we face around the world and here at home. Our federal and state law enforcement officials are on the job every single day fighting threats from ISIS and other terrorist organizations. We need to continue to make sure they have the necessary national security tools
05.26.2015	05.26.15 Senator Perdue Calls On President Obama To Reverse Lawless Amnesty Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement after the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive amnesty programs from moving forward: “This is a victory for Georgians who want a federal government that respects the rule of law. Once again, a federal court has reaffirmed that President Obama’s executive amnesty was unlawful and unacceptable overreach. We must stop the President’s abuse of power before his imperial presidency does any more damage to our country. I call on President Obama to reverse his unilateral executive amnesty, which exceeded the executive’s authority and disrupted the Constitutional balance of powers.” Senator Perdue continues to fight against President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty. He voted five times to defund President Obama’s executive amnesty programs, voted against Loretta Lynch’s nomination for Attorney General because of her support for implementing executive amnesty, and signed the amicus brief challenging President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty along with 25 states, including Georgia.
05.25.2015	05.25.15 Senator David Perdue Thanks Our Nation’s Heroes Asks Georgians to take the opportunity to thank a veteran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today made the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: “Today, we pause to thank our nation’s service men and women, and to honor those who have sacrificed their lives so that we may live in a land of freedom and opportunity. America’s heroes, and their families, deserve our eternal gratitude and our prayers. “Though this is a sacred day, it is a stark reminder that every day is an opportunity to thank our nation’s heroes for protecting our freedoms. Georgia has a proud military tradition, and as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I will work to ensure that we are able to uphold the promises we have made to them and their families.”
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Senator Perdue Supports Strong Oversight of Trade Negotiations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted for the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act: “Free trade plays an important role in Georgia’s economy, supporting over one million jobs. Increasing trade will help open opportunities to expand Georgia grown products into new markets. “I supported Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) with strong transparency measures to make sure Congress and the American people have direct oversight of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and any other trade deals being negotiated by President Obama. “This trade tool adds more transparency and accountability than ever before. It guarantees that Congress has all the information needed to make an informed up-or-down vote on any trade agreement with strong oversight measures. “At least sixty days before President Obama can sign any trade agreement, he must publish the full text so that the public can see it. This ensures an unprecedented level of transparency for the American people and gives Georgians a chance to review any trade agreement directly. “Further, if President Obama does not follow the strict procedures put in place, Congress can completely strip his negotiating authority. Ultimately, TPA keeps Congress in control of all trade deals and holds the Obama Administration accountable every step of the way.”
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Senator Perdue Highlights Concerns About President Obama’s Cuba Policy Questioning Leads To Obama Administration Admitting Cuban Policies Have Unknown Consequences WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today in a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, spoke at length with Assistant Secretary Alberta Jacobson about President Obama’s plans to normalize relations with Cuba. Senator Perdue asked Assistant Secretary Jacobson about potential negative unintended consequences of President Obama’s proposed actions on Cuba, and the Assistant Secretary admitted that the Obama Administration does not know what effects, if any, normalization would have on influencing the Cuban government. Click here to watch the video. Transcript: Senator Perdue: “To follow up, why wouldn’t we make that a prerequisite that better behavior would lead to opened economic relations?” Secretary Jacobson: “I think Senator, we all want the same end. It’s a question of how we basically motivate that behavior or how effectively we can help support change. The President believes firmly that the efforts we made in the past, which were in fact to say you must change first and then we will engage, just didn’t work to make the changes inside Cuba.” Senator Perdue: “We have evidence, though, cause and effect of several other countries Britain, Canada, others having opened trading relations with Cuba. We are the only ones really embargoing and yet that engagement really has not changed behavior. So what makes us believe that today our opening up of economic relations with Cuba will actually have that effect? Secretary Jacobson: “I think that’s a fair point , and we don’t know yet what the effect of this policy will be on the Cuban government. We do see already the effect, the beginning of the effect, on the Cuban people while we decry the detentions of the activists. We know there are Cubans who are benefiting from this new policy in their independent businesses and in their belief that they’re going to prosper and have a better life because of engagement with the U.S. The other thing I would say is that I am very engaged with my E.U. counterpart and with my counterpart in Spain, in working with them so that we can now work together, and when we work together not just with our regional counterparts, but with our European counterparts that is more powerful and I think that could have a more galvanizing effect, but it will be slow. I don’t deny that.”
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Senator Perdue Introduces Bill To Make Consumer Agency Accountable To The American People WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today introduced the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Accountability Act of 2015. The legislation will make the CFPB accountable to the American people by bringing it under the Congressional appropriations process. Given the expansive reach of the CFPB, Senator Perdue’s bill will provide critical Congressional oversight. In March, Senator Perdue offered a similar amendment that was included in the final 2015 Budget Resolution. “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was spawned from the disastrous Dodd-Frank financial regulation law,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgians sent me to Washington to help restore accountability and transparency to the federal government, and the CFPB needs a major dose of both. “Right now, the CFPB is a rogue agency that dishes out malicious financial policy and creates new rules and regulations at whim without real Congressional oversight. The American people, through Congress, deserve a closer look at the CFPB and how its actions will impact consumers. “Additionally, the agency itself has failed to operate within its own budget and proven it is more concerned with preserving its own power than protecting the public. Ultimately, I believe the CFPB should be eliminated, but an important first step is bringing it into the light for the American people.” Senator Perdue’s efforts to reform the CFPB have already earned support from several consumer and taxpayer advocacy groups: • Georgia Bankers Association: “The CFPB makes all the consumer protection rules, and those rules set the tone for compliance examinations of every bank, regardless of bank size and regulator doing the exam. That’s why increased accountability and oversight of CFPB is so important, and we applaud Senator Perdue for his efforts to hold this consumer agency accountable,” said Joe Brannen, President & CEO of the Georgia Bankers Association. "Instead of spending thousands of hours responding to inconsequential concerns that don’t pose significant consumer risks, traditional bankers’ time could be better spent on serving the needs of the families and businesses in their communities.” • U.S. Consumer Coalition: “The CFPB represents the greatest threat to consumer choice and freedom this country has seen in a long time. With the enforcement authority of the DOJ, and the regulatory authority of the FDIC, this unaccountable agency has limitless power to impact the lives of Americans,” said Sarah Makin on behalf of the U.S. Consumer Coalition. “While there may be a role for the CFPB, we applaud Senator Perdue for working to protect consumers from the so-called consumer protector.” • Taxpayers Protection Alliance: “Currently, the CFPB operates outside of the jurisdiction of Congress (that most agencies operate in) and continues to be appropriated by taxpayer funds without the proper Congressional oversight. This is an agency that demands scrutiny like any other federal agency and should be held accountable for their actions by moving into the proper process for Congressional appropriations,” said David Williams, President of the Taxpayers Protection Alliance. "Any federal agency operating with the use of taxpayer funds must be subject to oversight by the elected officials that represent those taxpayers in Washington.” • Electronic Transactions Association: “ETA supports legislation that balances consumer protections with economic growth and innovation. Senator Perdue’s bill achieves this goal,” said Scott Talbott, Senior Vice President for Government Relations at the Electronic Transactions Association. Background: Senator Perdue’s bill will ensure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is subject to the Congressional appropriations process. Currently, the CFPB operates under the Federal Reserve. Dodd-Frank established the CFPB’s budget at as much as 12% of the Fed’s annual operating expense. That is roughly $600 million per year without any Congressional oversight over the agency’s spending.
05.14.2015	05.14.15 Senator David Perdue Pushes for Increased Transparency in Trade Negotiations Trade Supports 1.2 Million Jobs in Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on increased transparency measures in the trade negotiation process: “Free trade is an important tool for growing the economy and creating jobs. In my home state of Georgia, trade supports over one million jobs. Previous free trade agreements have helped promote Georgia products around the world, and future free trade agreements could help increase our exports to new global markets. “I support Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) with strong transparency measures that give both Congress and the American people direct oversight of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and other trade deals being negotiated by President Obama. This tool is critical to making sure these trade negotiations are open and transparent to the public. “For the first time, TPA will require any trade agreement to be made available to the public at least 60 days before the President signs it, and before Congress even considers a vote. If a proposed trade agreement does not meet the strict standards put in place by TPA, Congress can then revoke President Obama’s negotiating authority. Further, the only way to change U.S. trade law is through Congressional action. “We must demand greater transparency from Washington so we get the best trade agreement possible and a better outcome for Georgia’s workers. Overall, I believe TPA will increase transparency by making sure Congress has complete oversight authority and the American people have the final say.”
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Co-Sponsor Legislation To Roll Back EPA’s Job-Killing Power Plan Will ensure reliable, affordable energy, put jobs first WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) this week joined a bipartisan group of senators in introducing legislation to roll back the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) massive proposed new rule to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants. The Affordable Reliable Energy Now Act will ensure reliable and affordable energy, put jobs and the economy first and curb federal overreach. “Georgia’s families and businesses depend upon affordable, reliable electricity,” said Senator Isakson. “They want to know that the lights will turn on when they hit the switch. The EPA’s proposal will limit Americans’ energy choices and create unfavorable economic conditions for stakeholders without producing any tangible environmental benefits.” “President Obama’s executive overreach has created a Constitutional crisis in this country, and his latest power grab through the EPA will hurt American families and businesses,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgians and all Americans deserve a government that takes steps to grow the economy rather than put in place more burdensome energy regulations. I will continue to fight for a smarter energy policy and prevent President Obama’s EPA from this audacious overreach.” The Affordable Reliable Energy Now Act was introduced by Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) and co-sponsored by 21 senators, including Isakson and Perdue. Key provisions of the bill include: • Prevents Mandates For Unproven Technology: EPA would be prohibited from setting a technology-based standard for new power plants until the proposed new standard must is proven to be achievable for at least one year at several separate power facilities throughout the country. The bill also prevents the EPA from using any demonstration projects –projects that rely on federal support – from being used to set the standard. • Extends Compliance Dates: The bill would extend the compliance dates of the EPA’s proposed new greenhouse gas emissions rule pending final judicial review, including the dates for submission of state plans. • Holds EPA Accountable: This bill would require EPA to issue state-specific model plans demonstrating how each state could meet the required greenhouse gas emissions reductions under the rule. • Enables States To Protect Ratepayers: The bill would provide that no state shall be required to implement a state or federal plan that the state’s governor determines would negatively impact economic growth, negatively impact the reliability of the electricity system or negatively impact electricity ratepayers. • Protects Highway Fund Dollars: The bill would prevent the EPA from withholding highway funds from any state for noncompliance with the proposed new greenhouse gas emissions rule, which the EPA is calling the Clean Power Plan. The legislation, which takes into account EPA’s proposed regulations for both new and existing power plants, also requires EPA to submit to Congress a report describing the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions the Clean Power Plan is expected to reduce, and to conduct modeling to show the impacts of the rule on the climate indicators used to develop the rule.
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Vote For Sally Yates For Deputy Attorney General WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voted in support of Sally Yates as Deputy Attorney General of the United States. The Senate confirmed Yates as the number-two Justice Department official by a vote of 84-12. Yates was the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia from 2010 to 2015, and served as a prosecutor in that district for 25 years. Yates was also the first woman to serve as the U.S. Attorney in Atlanta. She was named Acting Deputy Attorney General on January 10, 2015. “Sally Quillian Yates is a great human being that I have known for almost 40 years,” Senator Isakson said during remarks on the Senate floor. “For 25 years, she has been the lead prosecutor in the northern district of Georgia. She has been an equal opportunity prosecutor – she’s prosecuted Democrats, Republicans, Independents, Olympic park bombers, or anybody that violated the public trust or abused power. She is fair; she is smart; she is intelligent; and as a Georgia Bulldog, she’s what we call a double-dawg. She has her bachelor’s degree and her law degree from the University of Georgia, and graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Georgia law school. Sally Quillian Yates is a great Georgian and will be a great Deputy U.S. Attorney General of the United States of America.” “Sally Yates’ service to both to Georgians and the Justice Department has shown that she is capable of restoring an objective approach to law enforcement,” said Senator Perdue. “As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I have carefully reviewed Ms. Yates’ record and testimony, and I am confident that she will bring an objective, apolitical approach to a Department that sorely needs it.”
05.12.2015	05.12.15 Senator David Perdue Calls for Budget Transparency of All Auto-Pilot Spending Requests GAO Release Full Inventory of Accounts with Spending Authority and Permanent Appropriations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) along with seven other Senators, recently wrote Gene Dodaro, Comptroller General and Government Accountability Office director, requesting that GAO update Congress on the growth of federal programs that remain outside of the annual appropriations process. Since the last report in 1996, federal spending has increased by roughly $2 trillion. With a fully updated report, the Senate will have a better understanding of what government programs have been running on autopilot for nearly two decades. “Georgians deserve to know what Washington is doing with their money, and a thorough report from the GAO is an important step on our path to transparency in the budget,” said Senator Perdue. “Since the last time this report was updated, the size and scope of our federal government has skyrocketed, and federal spending has shot up by over $2 trillion. As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, I will continue to fight every day to make Washington more transparent, efficient, and accountable to the American people.” The letter specifically requests GAO to: 1. Update the data reported in your 1996 inventory 2. Identify accounts provided with backdoor authority between 1996 and fiscal year 2016 3. Identify accounts reported in 1996 that no longer have such authority in fiscal year 2016 4. Give legal citations providing spending authority 5. Determine whether the accounts are subject to or exempt from sequestration or subject to any special rules or limitations 6. Determine the change in accounts in terms of the number of accounts and dollar amounts used or collected Read the full letter HERE. The other signatories of the letter include: Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS), Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS)
05.12.2015	05.12.15 Senator David Perdue Continues To Fight Against Obama’s Executive Amnesty Highlights Recent Actions Against Obama’s Immigration Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) continues to fight back against President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty. In addition to voting to defund President Obama’s executive amnesty five times on the Senate floor, Senator Perdue recently signed an amicus brief against the President’s amnesty actions and raised concerns about fraud in the current legal immigration system. “We must stop President Obama’s egregious abuse of power. Given his disregard for Congress and the American people, I remain concerned about the national security risks and Constitutional crisis created by President Obama’s amnesty actions,” said Senator Perdue. “I promised Georgians that I will fight on their behalf against President Obama’s lawless executive amnesty, and I will not rest until we secure our border and restore the rule of law to our country.” Senator Perdue Signs Amicus Brief Against Obama’s Unconstitutional Executive Amnesty: Senator David Perdue, along with 112 other lawmakers in the House and Senate, recently signed an amicus brief in support of 25 states, including Georgia, challenging President Obama’s executive amnesty. President Obama’s amnesty policy “changes the law and sets a new policy, exceeding the executive’s constitutional authority and disrupting the delicate balance of powers,” wrote the lawmakers. Click HERE to read the full amicus brief. Senator Perdue Demands Explanation For Potential Fraud In Obama’s Immigration Processing: Senator David Perdue, along with six other Senators, recently signed a letter to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), demanding an explanation for plans to process applications for deferred deportation in an electronic system that has been riddled with challenges and ballooning costs. The plan, issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, would also flood a system designed to prioritize legal immigrants with applicants who violated immigration laws. This processing decision by USCIS may have exposed “our immigration system to fraud and national security threats,” wrote the Senators. Click HERE to read the letter in its entirety.
05.07.2015	05.07.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on Senate Passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) issued the following statement regarding Senate passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “I am proud to support the passage of this bipartisan legislation that forces President Obama’s hand and requires crucial Congressional oversight and scrutiny of any nuclear deal with Iran. “Make no mistake, I believe an international agreement of this magnitude should have been considered as a treaty. President Obama tried to leave Congress out of this process from day one, but with the passage of today’s bill we’ve taken an important step to ensure accountability. “Let’s not lose sight of what’s at stake here – a nuclear Iran. This bill prevents President Obama from having a totally free hand when negotiating a nuclear deal. It prevents President Obama from giving Iran immediate relief from Congressional sanctions and it requires direct reports to Congress on Iran’s terrorist and other illicit activities. “We can all agree that a nuclear Iran is one of the biggest security threats to the United States, the Middle East, and the entire world. We must do everything in our power to prevent Iran from obtaining the world’s deadliest weapon. That includes preventing President Obama from accepting a bad deal with Iran. This bill sends a vital message to the regime in Tehran that the American people will have a say on this deal. “Let’s get this bill across the finish line. Let’s get our say on this deal. Most importantly, let’s prevent Iran from ever obtaining a nuclear weapon. I hope that my colleagues in the House move swiftly to pass this legislation.”
05.05.2015	05.05.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue: A-10 Weapon System Critical to National Defense Join Representatives Carter, Scott in fight to protect critical close-air support from proposed divestment WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voiced their opposition to an Air Force proposal to divest of the A-10 Thunderbolt II that could jeopardize the United States’ close-air support capabilities and the safety of American service members. At a press conference led by U.S. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ), Senators Isakson and Perdue joined their Senate colleagues along with former Joint Terminal Attack Controllers, including Master Sergeant Tim Stamey from Georgia, to emphasize the increased risk that divesting the A-10 without an equally capable replacement would have on our ground troops who rely on this critical close-air support. “The A-10 is an important mission at Moody Air Force Base in Valdosta, Ga., and plays a crucial role in support of our national defense,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “The close-air support provided by the A-10 is unmatched by any other aerial platform, and to divest of this aircraft without an alternative ready and in place would put U.S. troops at increased risk in current and future conflicts.” “The A-10 is our best close-air support platform,” said Senator Perdue. “I will work to make sure that the Air Force knows that we are united and committed to this platform so we don’t have a gap in supporting our ground troops. It’s being used now, and it has been used for years, because of its proven capabilities and its cost-effectiveness. Georgians know that we must keep the A-10 in place to help fulfill the mission of close-air support as we combat this global security crisis.” The Department of Defense and Air Force have recently discussed plans to retire a percentage of the A-10 fleet in order to transition maintainers in support of F-35A initial operational capability. Today’s press conference comes ahead of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s scheduled vote on the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) next week and the likely consideration of the NDAA later this month by the full House of Representatives. You can view Senator Isakson and Perdue’s remarks at today’s press conference online here. The Georgia senators are joined by U.S. Representatives Austin Scott (R-GA-08), and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA-01), both of whom represent Moody Air Force Base in their districts in Georgia, in voicing their opposition to the U.S. Air Force’s proposal. Scott, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, and Carter fought to secure language in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act to authorize $682.7 million to keep the A-10 flying for another year and specifically prohibits the Air Force from taking any moves to retire the platform. “The A-10 is providing the close air support needed to finish the fights we are in now,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “As terrorist threats continue to grow abroad, our troops abroad on the ground need a weapons system they can count on. Divesting in the A-10 without a suitable replacement ready to take its place would put our warfighters in jeopardy.” “My colleagues and I have worked diligently in the House to ensure no moves are taken to retire the A-10 aircrafts stationed at Moody Air Force Base,” said Congressman Buddy Carter. “The A-10 strikes fear on the battlefield which is why the Air Force continues to deploy it in the fight against ISIS and we cannot afford to retire it now without a viable alternative. As discussions continue, I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to take our lead and join the fight to keep the Warthog flying.” This Congress, members of the Georgia congressional delegation, led by Isakson, have held a number of meetings with key officials from each of the Armed Services – including Moody Air Force Base – to discuss the importance of Georgia-based military equities and assets that play a critical role in our national defense. # # #
05.05.2015	05.05.15 Senator Perdue Statement On Final Passage Of Balanced Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released the following statement on the passage of the FY 2016 Budget Conference Agreement: “While this budget is far from perfect, I’m encouraged by the progress we’ve made in a few weeks to fix six years of fiscal irresponsibility in Washington. For the first time in too long, both the House and Senate made it a priority to pass a balanced budget. This is only a micro-step in the right direction, and we still have more work to do. Over the next year, Congress has to commit to work every day to grow this economy, cut wasteful spending, balance our budget sooner, and develop a long-term debt crisis plan. Merely balancing the budget is not good enough. “Our skyrocketing national debt is over $18 trillion. And there isn't enough urgency in Washington to rein that in. Worse than that, we have over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities primarily related to Medicare and Social Security. It’s time we face the reality and step up to save these safety net programs once and for all. That’s why we need to develop a long-term plan to produce a surplus each year so we can begin to pay down this outrageous debt and put our nation back on the path to fiscal responsibility. “As an outsider to this process, I believe Washington can do better. We fundamentally need to change how we fund our federal government. Instead of allowing Washington to make excuses for spending more taxpayer dollars, we need to be more transparent and accurate in our overall budgeting and accounting of everything we are spending. Georgians want Washington to work, and I remain committed to fighting every day to solve this fiscal crisis by setting clear priorities and implementing bold solutions going forward.”
05.01.2015	05.01.15 ICYMI: Senator David Perdue Calls For Bold Leadership In First Senate Speech WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier this week, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) delivered his first speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate. Senator Perdue called for bold leadership in Washington to address our nation’s major crises, and highlighted how he will work to create a new beginning to get our country back on track. Below is some recent news coverage of his speech. You can watch the full speech here. Atlanta Journal-Constitution: “Freshman U.S. Sen. David Perdue’s first speech on the floor this evening laid out priorities for the fiscal battles that he said inspired his turn from businessman to senator, while launching an attack on the Obama administration’s foreign policy and use of power domestically.” (David Perdue’s First Senate Speech Calls For Greater ‘Sense Of Urgency’, 4/27/15) Albany Herald: “Perdue opined that the solution is to break political deadlock and grow the U.S. economy, while eliminating duplicated programs, developing a long-term debt solution and getting Americans back to work at well-paying jobs.” (U.S. Sen. David Perdue Outlines Three Crises In Maiden Speech, 4/28/15 Atlanta Business Chronicle: “Perdue said the rising debt is threatening the nation’s ability to defend itself, which is contributing to a deterioration in American foreign policy. He blamed President Barack Obama for seeking an agreement with Iran that would give that country time to realize its ambitions of becoming a nuclear power.” (Perdue Highlights Nation's 'Debt Crisis' In Maiden Senate Speech, 4/28/15) Gwinnett Daily Post: “Georgia’s junior senator addressed his colleagues for more than 15 minutes what he deemed to be abuses of executive power, a ‘lack of leadership’ on foreign policy issues and an ‘out-of-control’ national debt. He said the general political climate in the nation’s capital was one of ‘dysfunction’ with leaders showing ‘fiscal irresponsibility’ in their decisions.” (Perdue Focuses On Executive Power, Foreign Policy And National Debt In First Senate Floor Speech, 4/29/15) Newsmax: “[Perdue] quoted liberal-leaning constitutional scholar Jonathan Turley, who has criticized Obama for abusing his executive authority. ... He blasted the administration's framework agreement with Iran which will permit the Islamist regime to build nuclear weapons after a temporary, decade-long freeze, saying it would endanger international security.” (Sen. Perdue: Obama Has 'Run the Country Without Congress' for 6 Years, 4/28/15) Washington Free Beacon: “President Barack Obama’s abuse of executive power privileges has essentially frozen Congress out of the government for the past six years, leading to foreign policy disasters across the globe and systemic domestic problems, according to Sen. David Perdue (R., Ga.), who blasted the White House’s abuse of power during a speech on the Senate floor Monday evening. Perdue, in his first wide-ranging speech from the Senate floor, blasted what he said is the Obama administration’s unprecedented abuse of the presidency and failure to set America on stable path. (Sen. David Perdue: ‘Obama Runs Country Without Congress,’ 4/27/15)
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Senator David Perdue Supports Bipartisan Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Calls For Congressional Review To Prevent President’s Free Hand With Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today spoke about his support for the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. The bipartisan legislation allows the American people, through Congress, to have final approval on President Obama’s nuclear negotiations with Iran. The bill passed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in a unanimous, bipartisan fashion – 19-0. Watch the video here: Transcript: I rise to speak in favor of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. First, I want to commend my colleagues Senator Corker and Senator Cardin for their leadership on this important, bipartisan legislation. Because of their crucial leadership, the Foreign Relations Committee recently passed this bill unanimously, in a 19-0 vote. One thing that’s so important to remember as we debate this bill, is that without this legislation, we would not have a say at all on the president’s nuclear deal with Iran. Now, I’ll be the first to say that an international agreement of this magnitude should have been considered the same as a treaty. But unfortunately, the President chose to completely circumvent Congress in this process. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, of which I am a member, did all that we could to ensure that the American people, by way of Congress, get a say in this deal. If we let the perfect become the enemy of the good, however, and fail to pass this bill, the President will be able to go ahead and implement any and all aspects of a nuclear deal with Iran. This bill prevents the President from having a totally free hand with regard to this potential deal with Iran, and from prematurely lifting sanctions. That lifting of sanctions would mean, according to CRS, an estimated one hundred and thirty billion dollars in sanctions relief would start flowing to Iran – that’s more than Iran’s entire annual defense budget. Imagine what they could do with over one hundred billion dollars: they could continue to fund terrorism, they could continue to prop up Assad’s regime in Syria, they could continue to fuel the Houthi rebellion in Yemen, and yes, further fund development of their nuclear weapons program. Congress passed the very sanctions credited with bringing Iran to the table, and I firmly believe that Congress should play a role in any decision to lift those sanctions. While the President may be able to waive sanctions on Iran later this year, permanent sanction relief can only come from Congress. My colleagues and I still have many questions about this deal, and we must take this opportunity to get a period of congressional review, so we can get answers to these questions, and prevent the President from prematurely lifting sanctions. We are truly facing a global crisis, and the world is watching. As Prime Minister Netanyahu recently said before Congress, a nuclear deal with Iran is not just a threat to Middle East security, it is not just a threat to U.S. security, it is a threat indeed to global security. There is no scenario in which a nuclear Iran would be anything but catastrophic. Indeed, a nuclear Iran would spark a wave of proliferation in the Middle East, and potentially worldwide. And if we don’t like Iran’s behavior today, imagine what their actions will be like if they have a nuclear weapon with the missiles to deliver them. Under no circumstances, can we allow Iran to become a nuclear weapons state, not now, not in 10 years, not ever. Thank you, Mr. President.
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Senator Perdue Welcomes Japan Prime Minister Abe To Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to a joint session of Congress: “I am excited to welcome Prime Minister Abe to the United States. This is truly an historic event, as he is the first Japanese leader to address a Joint Session of Congress. The Prime Minister’s address to Congress and the American people is not only timely, but is also an important step in strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance. “Today, we face a global security crisis. From countering terrorism to safeguarding the Asia-Pacific region, Japan has proven to be an indispensable ally. We have opportunities to strengthen this relationship by finalizing the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). This trade agreement would enhance America’s partnerships with Asian nations, grow our economy, and further American global leadership. “I commend the Abe government for successfully updating the guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, which will ensure even closer bilateral ties in the future. We must also provide our military with the resources needed to strengthen bilateral ties with Japan and counter growing Chinese aggression in this strategic part of the world. “As a member of the Senator Foreign Relations Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that we stand with our friend and ally, Japan.” Senator Perdue joined Chairman Corker (R-TN) and Ranking Member Ben Cardin (D-MD) in introducing a bipartisan resolution on the significance of the U.S.-Japan relationship. Read full text of the resolution here.
04.27.2015	04.27.15 Senator David Perdue Delivers First Senate Speech “Creating A New Beginning” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today delivered his maiden speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate highlighting three areas of national crisis, including: the abuse of executive power, the significant deterioration of American foreign policy, and our out-of-control debt. Full text of remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. Watch the video here. Transcript: Mr. President, I rise today to address, for the first time, this august body, the United States Senate, the greatest governing body ever conceived. Out of respect, I have waited until we passed the 100-day mark to deliver this speech, but I rise today because I believe our republic is in grave danger. We need to create a new beginning by dealing with the very real crisis of leadership we face today. It’s why I ran for the Senate in the first place because we need a new perspective in Washington. Like many Americans, I am outraged by Washington’s dysfunction, its fiscal irresponsibility, its lack of leadership in foreign policy, its intrusiveness and over reach, and its negative impact on hardworking Americans. Before being elected to the Senate, I had never been involved in politics. Simply put, I am a political outsider committed to changing the direction of our country. I grew up in a small military town in Middle Georgia, working on our family’s farms. My mom and dad were public school teachers and I grew up modestly, like most people there. I worked my way through college and was blessed with a business career that took me from the factory floor to become a Fortune 500 CEO. My story is not unique. It is the American story. Only in America is this possible thanks to hard work and self-reliance. It’s called the American Dream and it’s our job to make sure it lasts. Many people today believe this dream no longer exists and that we need big government to provide us with more and more financial security. I disagree totally. I believe our best days lie ahead, but we have to act boldly if we are to save this dream and our very way of life. As an outsider to the political process, I am humbled by the privilege to serve my country as a U.S. Senator. I am sobered by the immense responsibility of representing the people of Georgia. And I am encouraged by the opportunities we have to solve this crisis of leadership and create a new beginning. As one of the original thirteen states, Georgia has long been blessed with outstanding statesmen in the U.S. Senate. The first senator to serve in this seat in the first U.S. Congress in 1789 was Senator William Few. He also signed the Constitution. As fate would have it, Sarah Few Collins, a member of the team that helped me become Georgia’s 37th U.S. Senator in this seat, is a direct descendent of Senator Few. I think that’s pretty special. This desk that I use on the Senate floor is also very meaningful to me. It has served such distinguished leaders from Georgia as Saxby Chambliss, Zell Miller, Sam Nunn, Herman Talmadge, and the venerable Richard B. Russell, Jr. Mr. President, I rise to speak about three issues creating this national crisis of leadership we experience today: the abuse of executive power, the significant deterioration of American foreign policy, and our out-of-control debt. First, “what we are witnessing today is one of the greatest challenges to our constitutional system in the history of this country,” not my words but the words of George Washington University constitutional law professor, Dr. Jonathan Turley who incidentally, voted twice for President Obama. Unbridled use of executive orders and regulatory mandates has basically allowed this President to run the country without Congress for the past six years. According to Professor Turley, this sets dangerous precedents for future courts and future presidents. To create a new beginning, we must get back to our founding principles, articulated in our Constitution, that created this miracle called America in the first place: economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. When government grows larger, individual liberty declines. I believe that our Founders were committed to the concept of citizen legislators and could not perceive of the potential rise of career politicians. Mr. President, we also face a global security crisis that is getting worse by the day. This administration has created a situation where our allies don’t trust us and our enemies don’t fear us. Leading from behind has failed as a foreign policy. Right now, we face the threat of nuclear proliferation starting with Iran. As President Obama has conceded, the deal being negotiated would leave Iran with a breakout time “almost down to zero” in ten to fifteen years. As Prime Minister Netanyahu recently said before Congress, a nuclear Iran is not just a threat to Middle East security, it is not just a threat to U.S. security, it is a serious threat to global security. A nuclear Iran whose leaders are committed to the death of Israel and America would spark an unprecedented wave of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East. Under no circumstances, can we allow Iran to become a nuclear weapons state not now, not in 10 years, not ever. After battling terrorism for the past 14 years, and fighting two major wars with thousands of American lives lost and billions spent, we still face terrorist threats from jihadist Islamic groups who openly vow to do us harm. We face a tough choice: deal with them over there or wait and deal with the consequences here at home. We are also witnessing the return of great power rivalries. Last year, Russia actually seized territory of a sovereign state and continues their aggression today in the Ukraine. China is also growing more aggressive, doubling its military spending and flexing its muscles in the region. New asymmetric threats combined with traditional symmetric challenges create unprecedented demand on our military at the very time that this administration has reduced military spending to the point that we are about to have the smallest Army since before WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI and the smallest Air Force ever. This is simply unacceptable. To address this global security crisis and create a new beginning, we must have a consistent and strong foreign policy. However, to have a strong foreign policy we must have a strong defense. Providing for the national defense is one of only six reasons outlined in the Constitution why 13 colonies formed our union. To have a strong defense, though, we must have a strong economy- as we proved in the Cold War with the Soviet Union. Our own fiscal irresponsibility jeopardizes our ability to fund a strong military. Admiral Michael Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, once said that the greatest threat to our national security is our own federal debt. This debt crisis threatens our ability to defend our country, stand for freedom, and maintain our very way of life. It is a primary reason why we need to create a new beginning. This debt crisis affects each of us every day. While the economy lurches along, we see working middle class Americans struggling. Many people are having difficulty finding full-time jobs, and if they are lucky enough to have a job wages remain stagnant making it harder and harder to get from payday to payday. Many families can’t afford to buy a home or plan for the future. Moms and dads fear they can’t send their kids to college or prepare them for a good job. Many college graduates today have sizeable student loans and still can’t find meaningful employment. A comfortable retirement is only a dream for many. Back home in Georgia, people share my outrage about Washington’s fiscal irresponsibility. From what I’ve seen so far up here, there is not a great enough sense of urgency in tackling this skyrocketing debt crisis. There are no innocent parties up here either. Both sides have pushed us to the brink, contributing to this unsustainable level of debt we face today. In the past six years alone, the federal government spent $21.5 trillion but it borrowed $8 trillion of that, such that today, we have a federal debt of more than $18 trillion. We simply cannot afford everything we are doing as a federal government. We are already overtaxed and overregulated. The progressive policies of the past 100 years, and particularly the egregious policies of this current administration, have failed the very people they were intended to help: the working middle class. Instead, Washington has created a spiraling situation that will only take us deeper into debt. What’s worse, we have over $100 trillion in future unfunded liabilities related to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, federal pensions and interest on the federal debt. While developing a long-term solution to this debt crisis, we also need to protect today’s seniors and save our safety net programs so they will be there for people who really need them the most, when they need them. Shockingly, Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds will be totally insolvent in just a few short years. And worse, this administration has no plan to deal with that. Unfortunately, we are already past the tipping point in this fiscal catastrophe. If interest rates today were at their 5.5 percent 30-year average, we would already be paying almost $1 trillion in interest. That’s twice what we spend on our military and is totally unmanageable. People back home expect Washington to work. This fiscal irresponsibility drives people back in Georgia absolutely crazy. Mr. President, doubling down on bigger government, more federal programs, and more government spending is not the answer, as has been proven repeatedly over the last 100 years. We have to break the gridlock in Washington to solve this. One side wants increased taxes, the other wants spending cuts. The result is that we have had gridlock in Washington for a generation. The real solution, of course, is to grow the economy. One percentage point of incremental GDP growth would generate about $3 trillion in federal tax revenues in the next decade. Combine that with the elimination of duplicate programs and we can develop a long-term plan to solve this debt crisis as well as get Americans back to work in meaningful, well-paying jobs. To create a new beginning, my focus in this body will be to add to the debate about how to grow our economy, rein in our outrageous spending, and solve this debt crisis. To grow our economy, three priorities should be addressed right away. First, we need to totally reinvent how we fund our federal government. Many states, like Georgia, have a balanced budget law and so should Washington. American families can’t spend more than they take in and neither should their government. Our archaic tax system is choking growth, holding back innovation, and discouraging investment. Eventually, I believe we should transition from an income tax to a simple consumption tax, like the Fair Tax, that would level the playing field with the rest of the world. While that debate will take some time, there are things we can do right now to stimulate our economy. We need to reduce our corporate tax rate and eliminate entirely our repatriation tax to be more competitive with other countries. At the same time, we need to eliminate corporate welfare and make our tax system fairer and simpler for every American. We also have to rein in our out-of-control regulators. This president has created the fourth branch of government, the regulators, who today make more rules that affect our lives and our jobs than does Congress. Finally, we need to unlock our full energy potential to get this economy moving. We need to develop our domestic natural resources. Isn’t it time we finally develop a long-term energy policy that unleashes this potential while protecting our environment? Doing these things now will also allow us to fund our infrastructure needs, improve our education process, become more competitive with the rest of the world, create well-paying 21st century jobs, and ignite the next economic boom for our kids and grandkids. Mr. President, I have used the word “crisis” carefully and thoughtfully today. The first step toward making the tough choices required to change our direction comes from a true realization that we indeed have a crisis. Americans respond better than anyone in history to a true crisis, but we aren’t always the quickest to realize we have one. To create a new beginning, it’s time for this eminent body, the United States Senate, to rise above partisan politics and do the right thing. It starts with leadership. It starts with making hard choices. It starts with telling the American people the unvarnished truth. It starts with no longer kicking the can down the road. It starts with having the courage to actually solve these problems, independent of how it might affect our re-election chances. My motivation is very simple. I do not want to be a member of the first generation in American history that has to tell its kids that we are leaving them a country that is worse off than our parents left us. Ronald Reagan once said, “Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn’t pass it along to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same, or one day, we will spend our sunset years telling our children and our children’s children what it was once like in America when men were free.” Let us fight to find common ground to create a new beginning, for our country, for people back home who are struggling, and for the future of our children and our children’s children. As I close, Mr. President, I am reminded of the seldom-quoted closing sentence of the Declaration of Independence: “And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.” Our Founders got it right. They would remind us of that commitment and encourage us today to put our differences aside and work together to solve these sometimes overwhelming problems. Together, we can put our differences aside. Together, we can do the right thing. Together, we can create a new beginning. Thank you, Mr. President.
04.24.2015	04.24.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Co-Sponsor Legislation to Empower States to Challenge Federal Government Rules Bill would restore the efficacy of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) week co-sponsored legislation this week to ensure state governments are empowered to challenge federal regulations that are constitutionally questionable or burdensome. The Restoring the 10th Amendment Act, S.1045, sets up a framework that would provide states with legal standing and a legal framework for challenging unconstitutional federal regulations and executive orders before they go into effect. “Considering the consistent overreach by the Obama administration, this is commonsense legislation to help ensure that the 10th Amendment to our Constitution isn’t just a suggestion, but the absolute law,” said Isakson. “Our country was built on keeping government close to the people by allowing them to make decisions at the state and local level, and the powers given to the federal government delineated in the Constitution are supposed to be minimal. This legislation would help return us to the framework laid out by the Founding Fathers.” “Georgians are disgusted with Washington’s ridiculous overreach into every area of their lives. After six years of the Obama Administration ruling by executive order and regulatory overreach, we must empower our states with the opportunity to challenge egregious government overreach,” said Senator Perdue. “Protecting the 10th Amendment is an important step in fixing the Constitutional crisis our country faces.” Previous rulings on the issue of a state suing the federal government by the Supreme Court have been inconsistent. In their ruling on Massachusetts v. EPA, the Court stated that congressional authorization to challenge a federal action is “of critical importance to the standing inquiry.” This legislation seeks to offer legislative guidance. Under the Restoring the 10th Amendment Act, states could challenge a rule using the following steps: State official submits legal brief to federal agency. The state official submits a legal brief to the relevant agency head challenging the rule (on 10th Amendment grounds) during the public commenting period. Federal agency posts brief on its website. The agency must post the brief on the front page of the agency’s website so that it is immediately noticeable. Federal agency gives notice to other states. Within 15 days after the state official submits the brief, the agency must give notice of the brief to designated officials for each state. Federal agency certifies that the rule does not violate the 10th Amendment. Within 15 days after posting the brief, the agency head must certify in writing that the rule does not violate the 10th Amendment and provide the legal reasoning supporting its certification. Agency posts certification on its website. The agency must post the certification on its website alongside the state’s legal brief. State official may now file suit against the federal agency. The official may file in the district court where his/her place of business is located. Courts shall grant expedited appeal upon request. Should the official file a notice of appeal, the appellate court shall grant expedited review of a decision.
04.24.2015	04.24.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Urge Administration to Increase Offshore Energy Production Point to bipartisan support in states, throughout all levels of government WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) joined Senate colleagues this week in demanding the administration remove harmful restrictions on offshore energy development and keep its commitment to an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy that will further advance job creation, economic growth and energy security in the United States. In a letter signed by members of the U.S. Senate and House sent to U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, Senators Isakson and Perdue expressed concerns over restrictions placed on the proposed lease sale areas in the Atlantic within the Interior Department’s 2017-2022 Five Year Outer Continental Shelf Leasing Program proposal, which was submitted in January. “As members of Congress committed to a strong, comprehensive domestic energy strategy, we wholeheartedly believe that the United States must not shrink away from developing our nation’s offshore energy resources,” the senators wrote. “What the administration proposed appears merely to be an effort to provide political cover irrespective of the opportunity foregone. When coupled with the imposed buffer zones, and an insufficient number of lease sales… this draft proposal fails to produce a long-term energy policy that harnesses the potential of our nation’s vast natural resources.” The letter further states, “There is strong bipartisan support from members of Congress, governors, state legislators, local leaders and the general public for allowing oil and natural gas development in more areas of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf…We are at a critical time in developing America’s energy policy and decisions we make today will have an impact on future U.S. oil and natural gas production. Such decisions will also significantly impact our standing in a volatile global economy.” Specifically, concerns include the 50-mile buffer zone for the entirety of the Atlantic Coast proposed areas, the permanent withdrawal of areas offshore Alaska and the limited opportunities available under the program as proposed. The letter was led by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Tim Scott (R-SC). Earlier this month, Senators Isakson and Perdue sent another letter to the leadership of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee requesting that Georgia, receive a portion of revenue from offshore energy production, just as Gulf Coast states currently receive for oil and gas drilling off their shores.
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Announce Support For Sally Yates For Deputy Attorney General WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today announced their support for the nomination of Sally Yates to become the next Deputy Attorney General of the United States. Yates was U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia since 2010, and was the first woman to serve as the U.S. Attorney in Atlanta. The Senate Judiciary Committee today voted in favor of her nomination with a vote of 18-2. “Sally Yates is an exceptionally skilled attorney with a strong record of public service and is well-qualified to be promoted to Deputy Attorney General, from the ‘acting deputy’ role in which she is currently serving,” said Senator Isakson. “She has served with distinction as U.S. Attorney for Georgia’s Northern District and throughout her career has demonstrated her abilities as a talented and evenhanded prosecutor in a wide array of challenging cases.” “Sally Yates has served the people of Georgia and the Justice Department with distinction, and I am confident that she will do the same as Deputy Attorney General of the United States,” said Senator Perdue. “As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I have spoken out against the egregious politicization of the Justice Department. Ms. Yates’ record and testimony have demonstrated that she is committed to executing her duties with a much needed objective and apolitical approach to law enforcement.”
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Senator Perdue Opposes Loretta Lynch’s Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) voted in opposition to Loretta Lynch’s nomination to become the next Attorney General of the United States: “Today, I voted against the nomination of Loretta Lynch to be Attorney General. As I have explained previously, I do not take issue with the majority of Ms. Lynch’s record as a federal prosecutor, however, her aggressive use of civil asset forfeiture against law-abiding citizens and her failure to stand up to a liberal activist judge in the Francois Holloway case do give me pause. “Instead, I was unable to vote in favor of Ms. Lynch’s nomination because of her support for President Obama’s unlawful and unconstitutional executive amnesty. The President’s actions exceed his authority to exercise prosecutorial discretion, and undermine the rule of law. I could not vote for an Attorney General nominee who supports those actions and would be responsible for their implementation at the Justice Department. “In leading the Justice Department, the Attorney General must always maintain an independent and nonpartisan stance. If the President exceeds his Constitutional authority, the Attorney General must stand up to the President, something that happened rarely, if ever, during the highly politicized tenure of Attorney General Eric Holder. “I remain unconvinced that Ms. Lynch will be able to provide the kind of independent, nonpartisan leadership that has been conspicuously absent at the Justice Department during this administration, and I could not support her nomination.”
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Greet Shepherd’s Men Runners in Washington, D.C. Georgia group running 911 miles to raise TBI, PTSD awareness WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) welcomed to Washington, D.C., the Shepherd’s Men runners, who stopped in the nation’s capital on their 911-mile run from the Freedom Tower in New York, New York to the Shepherd Center in Atlanta. The Shepherd’s Men are running 911 miles from the Freedom Tower in New York to the Shepherd Center in Atlanta to raise awareness for the SHARE Military Initiative, a rehabilitation program at Shepherd Center that helps veterans who have sustained traumatic brain injury (TBI) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The group is composed mainly of veterans. The awareness run began on April 19, 2015, and will reach Atlanta on April 26, 2015, making stops along the way. “I applaud the Shepherd’s Men for making this run to carry their important message all the way from New York to Atlanta,” Senator Isakson said. “TBI and PTSD are serious issues facing our veterans today, and as chairman of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’m proud of these men making a difference for Georgia’s veterans.” “Georgians and people across America are proud of the work the Shepherd’s Men are doing on behalf of veterans,” said Senator Perdue. “We have made a promise to our heroes in uniform that we will support them when they come home, and the Shepherd’s Men remind us that we must work vigilantly to keep that promise.” Click here for pictures from Wednesday’s event. ###
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Co-Sponsor Repeal of Disastrous Obamacare Mandates WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) this week co-sponsored legislation that would prevent Americans from being negatively impacted again by Obamacare if the U.S. Supreme Court rules against the Obama administration this summer in a court case challenging the legality of a key component of Obamacare. In June, if the Supreme Court decides in the case known as King v. Burwell that Obamacare tax subsidies provided to individuals enrolled in the federal exchange are not legal, this legislation – the Preserving Freedom and Choice in Health Care Act – will ensure that individuals have the option to keep their plan during a two-year transition period. That would give states, including Georgia, the freedom and flexibility to develop alternatives that protect the American people from the harmful effects of Obamacare. This bill also repeals the individual and employer mandates and allows health care plans that would’ve been canceled by Obamacare restrictions to continue through 2017. “Since the day that Obamacare was signed into law, I have worked to repeal it because of its terrible consequences on America’s families and small businesses,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate health and finance committees, both with jurisdiction over Obamacare. “I’m proud to continue these efforts and make sure hardworking families who have already suffered the harmful effects of the president’s health care law will not be further penalized if the Supreme Court rules against the administration. We need commonsense solutions that improve the cost and quality of health care through competition and choice, rather than imposing job-killing taxes, mandates and penalties on the American people.” “Georgians know that Obamacare has been a nightmare for families and businesses across the country,” said Senator Perdue. “This bill is a critical step in making sure Obamacare doesn’t continue to burden the American people with its harmful mandates. Obamacare has caused higher premiums, reduced access to doctors, and cut back workers’ hours. Georgians want and deserve the freedom to find a health care plan that works best for themselves and their families. All Americans want and deserve quality, affordable health care, and we continue to see that Obamacare fails to deliver on those promises.” The Preserving Freedom and Choice in Health Care Act will: In the event of a King v. Burwell decision that rules patients enrolled in the federal exchange are not eligible for tax credits: Allow anyone who would lose their tax credits to continue receiving the subsidy through August 2017 for any offered health plan of their choice. Allow plans that would have been canceled because of Obamacare’s restrictions to continue through 2017. Allow states – rather than Washington – to determine insurance coverage and benefit requirements. Restrict eligibility for Affordable Care Act tax credits to individuals and families who have already enrolled in Obamacare. End the individual mandate that all Americans must purchase health insurance or pay a fine. End the employer mandate that nearly all businesses must provide health insurance to full-time employees.
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Praise Passage Legislation to Help Victims of Human Trafficking WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., both members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, today praised Senate passage of bipartisan legislation – S.178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, by a vote of 99-0. “I am both pleased and relieved that the Senate has passed the bipartisan Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act,” said Isakson. “This critical human-rights bill will provide help for the oppressed victims of modern-day slavery, and I hope that it will proceed quickly into law without further delay.” “Human trafficking is nothing short of modern-day slavery, and this bill is an important step in eliminating it,” said Senator Perdue. “It is my hope that the Senate can continue to come together to tackle our nation’s challenges.” The bipartisan legislation was introduced by Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and establishes the “Domestic Victims Trafficking Fund”— a private, non-profit grant-making institution, which would fund programs outside the United States that will help victims recover, prevent trafficking, and enforce laws to punish individual and corporate offenders of modern slavery.?
04.21.2015	04.21.15 Foreign Relations Subcommittee Chairman David Perdue Chairs First Hearing On State Department Oversight Calls For Making State Department More Effective, Transparent, & Accountable WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today led the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development’s first hearing on the operational effectiveness of the State Department. The Inspector General for the U.S. State Department and Broadcasting Board of Governors, Steve Linick, testified about the Office of the Inspector General’s (OIG) efforts, initiatives, and challenges in performing adequate oversight. “Georgians sent me to Washington to make the federal government more effective, transparent, and accountable. Today’s hearing is part of our Congressional oversight authority. It is my hope that this first hearing and the bipartisan work of this subcommittee will help uncover ways we can improve and streamline oversight at the State Department in order to support the men and women who serve our country here at home and around the world. “The Office of the Inspector General was designed to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse, and has laudably found ways to save taxpayers millions of dollars. However, they do not have autonomy or independence to conduct adequate oversight. Given the important mission of the State Department, it’s outrageous that Mr. Linick and his team are not given full authority to hold a department of 72,000 employees accountable. As chairman of this subcommittee, my goal is to improve the overall operational effectiveness of the State Department and provide greater transparency and accountability for the American people.” In January, Senator Perdue was named Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee which oversees the budget and operations of the State Department and USAID. Click here to watch Senator Perdue’s introductory remarks: Hearing Highlights: State Department Inspector General Steve Linick Points to Lack of Recommendation Implementation Before Benghazi: Senator Perdue: “My first question follows some testimony that you gave about 2012 and the attacks there on U.S. diplomatic personnel in Benghazi, the OIG since then has stepped up its oversight efforts since then, can you describe what those efforts are to improve the physical security, and also how do you go about evaluating the security of other embassies around the world?” Linick: “We found in that report that after reviewing 126 recommendations from 12 different Accountability Review Boards between Dar es Salaam and Benghazi, forty percent of the recommendations were repeat recommendations pertaining to security, intelligence gathering, and training. We found the reason why that occurred is because of a lack of sustained commitment over the years by department principals in making sure recommendations were implemented. In fact, we found many of the same recommendations in the Accountability Review Board for Benghazi to be the same recommendations.” State Department Inspector General Calls For Autonomy From The People He Investigates: Senator Perdue: “In terms of improving effectiveness of the State Department, if you had the top two or three priorities, what would you recommend based on all the work you’ve been doing?” Linick: “In terms of items that would help the IG performance job, I would say there are two issues that come to mind. Number one is our ability to get early notification of misconduct involving serious or criminal activity, and our ability to investigate that, at least decide whether we are going to investigate that, and return it back to the Department. So that’s our number one. The second issue is what I mentioned in my oral testimony is IT independence. We really need to be independent from the Department. We have a lot of sensitive information on our network. So I would say those two things would be on the top of my list.” State Department Inspector General Admits State Department’s Network Gets Attacked: Senator Perdue: “Do you have evidence that the State Department’s network has been attacked, and does that affect you guys?” Linick: “There is evidence it has been attacked, and it has affected us. I can’t really go into details because of the nature of the information.” State Department Inspector General Acknowledges State Department’s Network Suffers From Attacks: Senator Perdue: “You mentioned that there have been attacks on the State Department’s network and that compromises the IG’s work relative to being on the same network. Can you talk about that in a little more detail? And talk about what you’re doing to protect your independence and whether you need to be totally independent on a separate network or what is your recommendation, or what are you doing to protect IG’s independence? Linick: “Your point is well taken. To the extent that the Department suffers from attacks – we suffer from attacks because we’re on the same network. We’ve taken a number of steps since I’ve been in office. First of all, we’ve asked the Department to agree not to come on to our system without asking permission. And finally, we’ve gotten that agreement from the Department. But we need more than that. Because right now, we’re sort of in a gated community, if you will, where we rent our IT system and the IT folks at the Department have the keys to our IT system. So they really have unfettered access to the system. If they wanted to, they could read, modify, delete any of our work.”
04.15.2015	04.15.15 Perdue, Moran & Woodall Lead FairTax Effort in Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – On April 15, Tax Day, U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) and U.S. Representative Rob Woodall (R-GA-07) issued the following statements in support of S. 155 and H.R. 25, the FairTax Act of 2015. A proposal to remove all aspects of the current income tax code and replace it with a system based on consumption of new goods and services, the FairTax has been introduced and championed by Representative Woodall since coming to Congress, with Senators Perdue and Moran now leading the charge in the U.S. Senate. With 74 supporters, it remains one of the most widely supported fundamental tax reform bills in Congress. “We are in a full-blown fiscal crisis, and we need to take bold steps to get our country back on track,” said Senator Perdue. “We can’t just tax our way out of this crisis, and we can’t just cut our way out. We must grow the economy, and the FairTax is an important step in the right direction. The FairTax will help level the playing field and encourage American innovation and investment to make our economy more competitive. That kind of thriving economic activity is a necessity if we are ever going to pay down this outrageous debt and make life work better for Georgians and American families.” “The inefficient and burdensome tax filing process each April serves as an important reminder to Americans that our tax system is fundamentally flawed and in need of significant reform,” said Senator Moran. “Fortunately, there is a better way: the FairTax. By removing existing income taxes and associated loopholes, exemptions and credits, the FairTax would end the convoluted tax-filing process, boost the economy, and make the tax code so simple that we could eventually close the IRS for good. The economic need for a leaner and fairer tax code has never been greater and adopting the FairTax should be a Congressional priority.” “Whether to encourage economic growth and productivity or to rein in the size and scope of the federal government, fundamental tax reform is long overdue,” said Representative Woodall. “The FairTax offers that reform, but is so much more than just another effort to adjust the existing tax code. It does what no other proposal in Congress does – it removes our broken and oppressive system by its roots – replacing it with an approach consistent with the American spirit of innovation, and the American principles of freedom and opportunity. By rejecting the notion that Washington knows best, and returning that power to the American people, we can unleash our economy while protecting individual liberty, and providing taxpayers with a simple and transparent process. Under the FairTax, April 15 would once again be just another spring day.”
04.15.2015	04.15.15 Senator David Perdue Statement on President Obama Decision to Remove Cuba from U.S. State Sponsors of Terror List WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s decision to remove Cuba from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism: “I am deeply concerned that President Obama continues to embolden our enemies and empower dictators from Russia to Iran, and now Cuba. Cuba must prove it is willing to change its destructive and oppressive behavior before the United States removes it as a state sponsor of terrorism. “The Castro regime, time and again, has violated international norms. In 2013, Cuba secretly shipped 240 metric tons of weapons to North Korea, violating a U.N. embargo, it provides safe harbor for American fugitives, including one on the FBI ‘Most Wanted Terrorist’ list, and it continues to support radical groups in the region, such as the FARC in Colombia. “President Obama’s decision sends the wrong message about our democratic values as a nation. President Obama is embracing Castro and turning his back on the Cuban people who remain oppressed under this communist dictatorship. “I look forward to using my role on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to scrutinize the President’s decision rigorously.”
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Senator David Perdue: We Must Not Allow Iran To Develop A Nuclear Weapon (Not Now, Not In Ten Years, Not Ever) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today addressed Georgians about the importance of preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Senator Perdue does not currently support the framework for a nuclear deal with Iran in its current form, given it allows Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability down the road. Later today, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will meet to discuss the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. This legislation would require Congressional review of any nuclear agreement with Iran, and would prohibit the Obama Administration from suspending Congressional sanctions for 60 days. Click here to watch Senator Perdue’s address: Transcript: In my first three months as the junior Senator from Georgia and as a member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I have visited the Middle East twice already. And I’m convinced more than ever that we have a full-blown global security crisis. In addition to ISIS and Russian aggression, the very real possibility of a nuclear Iran has become the world’s greatest threat to global security. Like many of you, I am absolutely certain that we must not allow Iran to develop a nuclear weapon: Not now. Not in ten years. Not ever. The deal being negotiated by the Obama Administration leaves Iran poised to have a nuclear weapon at the end of ten years. President Obama himself conceded that this agreement will leave Iran’s breakout time to possess a nuclear weapon as “almost down to zero” after the deal sunsets. In this deal, Iran is not required to dismantle any nuclear infrastructure and can continue its enrichment efforts into more advanced centrifuges that are 20 times faster than those they operate today. This deal claims adequate inspections, and yet the Supreme Leader has adamantly said he will not allow any inspections on any military installation. So much for transparency. There is little doubt that a nuclear Iran would trigger a very serious nuclear arms race in the Middle East and potentially around the globe. Iran is simply a bad actor. They have violated the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty repeatedly for decades. They are currently the world’s leading sponsor of terrorism. Iran has also been responsible for the deaths of American soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan and continues to detain American citizens within its borders. The Obama Administration claims that the only alternative to this deal is war. That is simply not true. As Prime Minister Netanyahu said, no deal is better than a bad deal. We should reinstate the serious sanctions on Iran that brought them to the bargaining table to begin with. I am determined to make sure we don’t jeopardize the future safety of our kids and grandkids by making a bad deal with Iran. It is critical to our national security and global security that the American people, through Congress, have final approval on any deal with Iran. Before any sanctions are lifted, we need to be absolutely certain that Iran will never be able to overtly or covertly develop or procure nuclear weapons. Not now. Not in ten years. Not ever. Thank you.
04.10.2015	04.10.15 ICYMI: Senator Perdue Addresses Serious National Security Threats In Middle East WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, just returned from a visit to Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The Congressional Delegation went to review the unfolding campaign against ISIS and to meet with some of America’s closest partners about regional security threats. Below is some recent coverage of Senator Perdue’s trip: Atlanta Journal-Constitution: U.S. Sen. David Perdue said he would reject a deal designed to place new limits on Iran’s nuclear program because it “paves the way for a nuclear Iran.” Speaking by phone after a swing through the Middle East, the Georgia Republican raised questions about the deal that would reduce Iran’s stockpile of nuclear fuel and its capacity to produce new fuel for an atomic weapon. The agreement, two years in the making, was announced while he was on the trip. “This deal should not be accepted. We need to reinforce and double-down on the sanctions,” he said. (David Perdue: Obama Deal ‘Paves The Way For A nuclear Iran, 4/3/15) Morris News Service: Perdue, who took office three months ago, is a member of the Foreign Relations Committee. His first trip was to Israel where he met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is also an outspoken critic of Obama’s foreign policy. Like Netanyahu, the freshman senator warned that the agreement reached this week with Iran will not be effective in curbing that country’s ability to build a nuclear weapon. The agreement doesn’t destroy bomb-making equipment, just puts it in “mothballs” for 10 years, Perdue said. And Iran has a bad track record for cheating on international agreements and hiding strategic laboratories from inspectors, he said. “It looks like it paves the way for a nuclear Iran,” he said. (Perdue: Middle East Trip Proves Foreign Policy Off Base, 4/4/15) Roll Call: “We continue to live in a dangerous world, and what we saw on the ground reinforces that we face both symmetric and asymmetric threats,” said Sen. David Perdue, a freshman senator from Georgia who participated in the delegation trip. “ISIS has brought chaos and violence to an already troubled part of the world, and we have a lot of work to do if we are to extinguish their ambition of harming Americans and our allies. We must find decisive ways to destroy ISIS, and to ensure that terrorism of any kind does not reach our shores.” (McConnell Skeptical of Iran Deal After Leading Freshmen on Middle East Trip, 4/6/15) Peach Pundit: Senator David Perdue (R-Georgia) participated in a trip to the Middle East along with a Senate delegation led by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky). The delegation visited American service members and top foreign leaders in the Middle East including Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel and King Abdullah of Jordan. Apart from Israel and Jordan, the delegation also visited top political leadership in Iraq and Afghanistan. (Senator Perdue Joins Senate Delegation To The Middle East, 4/8/15)
04.08.2015	04.08.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Call for Offshore Energy Legislation with Revenue Sharing (Bipartisan Southern Atlantic Coastal delegation calls for offshore drilling revenue to be shared with Atlantic coastal states) WASHINGTON,D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in calling for offshore energy legislation that allows Georgia and other Atlantic coastal states to share in the revenue from energy resources developed offshore. In January, the U.S. Department of the Interior proposed opening the Mid- and South-Atlantic regions to offshore oil and gas leasing. Senators Isakson and Perdue, along with other senators from the Southeast Atlantic delegation, sent a letter to the leadership of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee requesting that their states, including Georgia, receive a portion of revenue from offshore energy production, just as Gulf Coast states currently receive for oil and gas drilling off their shores. “Offshore energy exploration can be an opportunity to diversify the economy and create jobs in the Mid- and South-Atlantic region, as well as a means to lessen our national reliance on foreign sources of energy,” the Senators wrote. “Our states want the opportunity to create new jobs, generate new revenue and make the United States more energy secure. As you work to develop energy legislation in the 114th Congress, we would appreciate the committee’s consideration of revenue sharing so that Mid- and South-Atlantic states are provided a fair revenue share alongside Gulf Coast states.” In addition to Isakson and Perdue, the bipartisan letter was signed by U.S. Senators Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham, R-SC), and Tim Scott (R-SC). Full text of the letter appears below. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. April 7, 2015 Chairman Lisa Murkowski Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 304 Dirksen Senate Building Washington, DC 20510 Ranking Member Maria Cantwell Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 304 Dirksen Senate Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell, We write to express our support for the inclusion of revenue sharing legislation in any offshore energy access legislation that the Energy and Natural Resources Committee may consider this Congress. As you know, the Mid- and South-Atlantic was included in the recently released Draft Proposed 2017-2022 Five Year Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Leasing Program (DPP). We strongly believe that offshore energy and revenue sharing for coastal states go hand-in-hand and that any legislation considered by the Committee should reflect that view. Offshore energy exploration can be an opportunity to diversify the economy and create jobs in the Mid- and South-Atlantic region, as well as a means to lessen our national reliance on foreign sources of energy. The offshore industry has coexisted with the military and commercial industries like fishing and tourism in other areas for many years, and we believe that oil and gas development can take place on the Outer Continental Shelf alongside our shared efforts to protect our waters and shoreline. In the Mid- and South-Atlantic as in the Gulf of Mexico, we all agree on the principle that coastal states deserve a portion of the revenue from energy production. Bipartisan support for oil and gas development on the Atlantic OCS can be found at the federal, state and local levels. Our states want the opportunity to create new jobs, generate new revenue and make the United States more energy secure. As you work to develop energy legislation in the 114th Congress, we would appreciate the committee’s consideration of revenue sharing so that Mid- and South-Atlantic states are provided a fair revenue share alongside Gulf Coast states. We look forward to working with you as you look to shape future offshore energy policy. Sincerely,
04.06.2015	04.06.15 Senator David Perdue Returns From Visiting Georgia Troops Overseas (Visits Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Afghanistan & Iraq) ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, just returned from a visit to Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The Congressional Delegation went to review the unfolding campaign against ISIS and to meet with some of America’s closest partners about regional security threats. Senator Perdue meets with Commander Elliott “Kip” Wright, Staff Sergeant Ricky Edwards, and Captain Patrick Milott in Afghanistan. “From ISIS to Iran, the United States faces a global security crisis. I specifically remain concerned about the lack of a strategy to defeat ISIS and prevent a nuclear Iran. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I will help to ensure that we conduct vigorous oversight on the President’s proposed policies, and will work to ensure America remains resolute in confronting terrorists and other adversaries. “We continue to live in a dangerous world, and what we saw on the ground reinforces that we face both symmetric and asymmetric threats. ISIS has brought chaos and violence to an already troubled part of the world, and we have a lot of work to do if we are to extinguish their ambition of harming Americans and our allies. We must find decisive ways to destroy ISIS, and to ensure that terrorism of any kind does not reach our shores. “While we have made significant progress in Afghanistan, it is important that we continue to review the suggested military withdrawal plan to give our troops enough time to effectively train the Afghan forces and avoid making the same mistakes of the past, which created a vacuum for ISIS and other terrorist groups to ascend to power in the region. “Further, the current framework that was negotiated with Iran seems to pave the way for this rogue regime to develop a nuclear weapons capability. I am gravely concerned about the terms of the sunset, which will allow Iran to continue to conduct research and develop dangerous centrifuges down the road. In the coming weeks, we will ensure there is appropriate Congressional oversight of any final agreement. “Most importantly, I had the opportunity to personally thank our men and women in uniform, and shared breakfast with several brave troops from Georgia. These American heroes are selflessly serving overseas, and their commitment to preserving our freedom should make every Georgian proud.” During the trip, Senator Perdue met with U.S. troops, military officials, and political leaders to discuss economic and security issues affecting bilateral relations. The Senator was briefed on the ground by General John Campbell, the four-star general who oversees international military operations in Afghanistan and Lieutenant General James Terry, who commands the combined joint task force in Iraq. Senator Perdue also met with American soldiers serving on the frontlines, including many from Georgia. In addition to visiting with troops from Georgia, Senator Perdue met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin, Jordanian King Abdullah II, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, Iraqi President Fuad Masum, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, and Afghan Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah. View and download additional photos from Senator Perdue’s trip here.
04.02.2015	04.02.15 Senator David Perdue Calls Out President Obama For Executive Amnesty Retaliatory Tactics WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) recently wrote a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson highlighting concerns that individual DHS employees might face retaliation if they choose to fulfill their duties under the law instead of enforcing President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty. “We’ve seen these sort of politically-motivated tactics from the Obama Administration before, and Georgians are sick and tired of it,” said Senator Perdue. “DHS personnel who defend our border swore oaths to uphold and enforce current U.S. law, and they should not be punished because President Obama granted illegal and unconstitutional executive amnesty. “It is unconscionable that President Obama says there will be ‘consequences’ for those who don’t enforce his unlawful amnesty plan. I call upon President Obama to stop trying to circumvent Congress and the American people every chance he gets.” Click here to read the letter in full. Background: The letter demands that Secretary Johnson provide: The number of employees DHS has disciplined over the last six years for refusing to comply with the Department's administratively-created enforcement priorities. Statistics regarding the number of lawsuits or complaints filed by DHS personnel over the last six years relating to their refusal to follow DHS’ administratively-created enforcement policies. Written or description of oral guidance issued to DHS personnel about potential discipline of employees who refuse to comply with DHS’ administratively-created enforcement policies. Description of authority on which DHS will rely to penalize DHS personnel for their failure to comply with an unlawful and unconstitutional order. On February 25, 2015, during a MSNBC/Telemundo town hall discussion at Florida International University in Miami, President Obama said: “There may be individual [U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)] officials or Border Patrol who aren’t paying attention to our new directives. But they’re going to be answerable to the head of the Department of Homeland Security, because he's been very clear about what our priorities should be...If somebody is working for ICE and there is a policy and they don't follow the policy, there are going to be consequences to it.”
04.02.2015	04.02.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Join Effort to Prevent Early Retirement of A-10 (Urge Congressional leaders to ensure ground troops have best possible close air support) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) are calling for Congress to prevent the premature divestment of the A-10 Thunderbolt II by the U.S. Air Force that could jeopardize the United States’ close air support capabilities and the safety of American service members. In letters led by U.S. Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Senator Isakson and Senator Perdue urged the leaders of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Appropriations Committee to prevent any additional divestment of the A-10 before an equally-capable replacement is fully operational. The senators request that the forthcoming fiscal year 2016 defense authorization bill prohibit any additional divestment of the A-10 and authorize the necessary funding for the A-10. A similar letter to Senate appropriators urges the committee to provide necessary funding for the A-10 for fiscal year 2016. The senators wrote, “When we send our troops into harm’s way, we have a solemn obligation to ensure that they have the very best support possible so they can accomplish their missions and return home safely. This is certainly true when it comes to close air support (CAS), which provides ground troops with the decisive firepower they need when they are engaged in close combat with the enemy.” “The Air Force has not persuaded us that it can prematurely divest the A-10 – our nation’s most combat-effective and cost-efficient [close air support] aircraft – without putting our ground troops in serious additional danger,” the senators added. “For that reason, we look forward to working with you to prohibit the additional divestment of A-10 aircraft before an equally capable close air support aircraft achieves full operational capability.” Full text of the letters sent to Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) and Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI), and Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Vice Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) are included below. LETTERS TO SENATE ARMED SERVICES AND APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEES: March 27, 2015 Chairman McCain and Ranking Member Reed, When we send our troops into harm’s way, we have a solemn obligation to ensure that they have the very best support possible so they can accomplish their missions and return home safely. This is certainly true when it comes to close air support (CAS), which provides ground troops with the decisive firepower they need when they are engaged in close combat with the enemy. Unfortunately, the Air Force is again pursuing its premature, misguided, and dangerous divestment of the A-10. We respectfully request that the fiscal year 2016 Senate Armed Services Committee National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) mark prohibit any additional divestment of A-10 next fiscal year and authorize the necessary funding for the A-10. There is an overwhelming consensus among our ground troops, special operators, and Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs) that the A-10 is the Air Force’s best close air support aircraft and that it provides CAS capabilities that no other current aircraft can. For that reason, we remain concerned that if the Air Force is permitted to prematurely divest the A-10 before an equally capable replacement reaches full operational capability, the quality of CAS available to our ground forces will decline and Americans will be killed and injured unnecessarily. Charlie Keebaugh, President of the Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) Association, which represents approximately 3,300 current and former Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs), told Secretary Carter in a letter earlier this year, “We believe that F-15s, F-16s, and B-1s cannot replicate the CAS capabilities of the A-10, and we know from combat experience that the elimination of the A-10 before a viable replacement achieves full operational capability will cost American lives.” Master Sergeant (Retired) Eric Brandenburg—an Air Force combat veteran, Silver Star recipient, and former JTAC—said last year, “Our troops need the A-10. If our government truly has our troop’s safety and best interest at heart then retiring the A-10 wouldn’t even be an option. Even considering retiring the A-10 in my opinion is telling me and my brothers in arms that leadership is willing to trade politics over lethality on the battlefield.” Master Sergeant Brandenburg’s views are not an anomaly—they represent an overwhelming consensus among JTACs. During the annual TACP Association gathering in October, the attending JTACs were asked about the Air Force’s attempts to divest the A-10, and 100% of the responses were against the divestment. No one knows more about CAS than our JTACs, and it would be unwise for Congress to ignore their pleas and not protect the A-10 from premature divestment. JTACs are not the only ones who have expressed support for the A-10 and said other existing aircraft are not the same. Last year, when asked if the F-16 is the same as the A-10, with respect to close air support, General Raymond Odierno, the Army Chief of Staff, testified that, “It’s not the same.” He has also testified that “…we prefer the A-10.” On March 17, 2015, General Odierno testified that the A-10 has been the best close air support platform in Iraq and Afghanistan. When confronted with these statements by our nation’s CAS experts, the Air Force points to future capabilities and the F-35A as reasons not to be concerned about the premature divestment of the A-10. Someday, new technology may allow aircraft flying miles away at 10,000 feet to use high-tech munitions to safely and effectively target enemy forces in bad weather that are only a few dozen meters away from friendly ground troops. However, that day has not yet arrived. We still need CAS aircraft that can fly low and slow, beneath bad weather, close enough to the point of ground combat, and survive. We still need CAS aircraft that allow the pilot, in close coordination with the JTAC, to visually identify friendly and enemy positions and engage the enemy using rockets and guns. Likewise, the CAS capabilities of the F-35A remain to be seen, and the F-35A is not expected to achieve full operational capability until 2021 at the earliest—two years after the Air Force would like to send the last A-10 to the boneyard. The Air Force recently held a close air support conference that was highly managed by the Air Force leadership to support the pre-determined policy outcome regarding the A-10. Despite this, General Hawk Carlisle, the head of Air Force Combat Command, reportedly admitted that once the A-10 is gone and the F-35 is fielded, the Air Force “may need more [CAS] capacity at a lower cost.” It is notable that the Air Force is trying to divest its CAS aircraft with the least operational cost per flying hour to save money when it knows that such a course of action will result in a capacity shortfall. In its arguments in favor of A-10 divestment, as well as with data the Air Force has used to support its case, the Air Force consistently conflates air interdiction and CAS missions and ignores the unique challenges associated with many CAS missions, including moving targets, bad weather, and the particularly close proximity of friendly and enemy forces (“danger close missions”). This is not the Air Force’s first attempt to get rid of the A-10. According to a 1988 General Accounting Office (GAO) report, the Air Force—citing concerns about the survivability of the A-10—wanted to replace the A-10 with a modified F-16 beginning in 1993. According to the GAO report, the Department of Defense expressed concern about this Air Force proposal and suggested that the Air Force had not “adequately emphasized the close air support mission…” The A-10’s subsequent performance in Iraq and Afghanistan vindicated the Department of Defense’s decision to oppose the Air Force’s proposal. Many Americans would have not returned home from those wars if the Air Force had gotten its way then. Today’s A-10, extensively modernized and even more lethal, remains our nation’s best CAS platform. This year, the A-10’s performance in Iraq and Syria against ISIS and its deployment to Europe to deter additional aggression there underscore the A-10’s continued lethality, survivability, and effectiveness. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the fiscal year 2016 Senate Armed Services Committee National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) mark not allow the Air Force to “retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage any additional A–10 aircraft.” It is also important that the mark prohibit any “significant changes to manning levels or flight hours with respect to any A–10 aircraft squadrons.” The language should also explicitly prohibit the Air Force from placing any additional aircraft on “backup flying status” or “backup aircraft inventory status”. We request that the mark also authorize full funding for the A-10. We stand ready to work with you and your staffs to identify appropriate offsets for this A-10 funding. With a proposed FY 2016 Air Force budget of $122 billion, it is not difficult to identify offsets for A-10 funding that will not exceed $737 million. The Air Force has not persuaded us that it can prematurely divest the A-10—our nation’s most combat-effective and cost–efficient CAS aircraft—without putting our ground troops in serious additional danger. For that reason, we look forward to working with you to prohibit the additional divestment of A-10 aircraft before an equally capable close air support aircraft achieves full operational capability. Thank you for your distinguished service to our country. Sincerely, Kelly A. Ayotte Lindsey Graham Roger Wicker Thom Tillis Joni Ernst Michael Crapo David Perdue Johnny Isakson John Barrasso James E. Risch Mark Kirk ---- March 27, 2015 Chairman Cochran and Vice Chairwoman Mikulski, When we send our troops into harm’s way, we have a solemn obligation to ensure that they have the very best support possible so they can accomplish their missions and return home safely. This is certainly true when it comes to close air support (CAS), which provides ground troops with the decisive firepower they need when they are engaged in close combat with the enemy. Unfortunately, the Air Force is again pursuing its premature, misguided, and dangerous divestment of the A-10. We respectfully request that the Appropriations Committee appropriate the necessary funding for the A-10 for fiscal year (FY) 2016. There is an overwhelming consensus among our ground troops, special operators, and Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs) that the A-10 is the Air Force’s best close air support aircraft and that it provides CAS capabilities that no other current aircraft can. For that reason, we remain concerned that if the Air Force is permitted to prematurely divest the A-10 before an equally capable replacement reaches full operational capability, the quality of CAS available to our ground forces will decline and Americans will be killed and injured unnecessarily. Charlie Keebaugh, President of the Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) Association, which represents approximately 3,300 current and former Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs), told Secretary Carter in a letter earlier this year, “We believe that F-15s, F-16s, and B-1s cannot replicate the CAS capabilities of the A-10, and we know from combat experience that the elimination of the A-10 before a viable replacement achieves full operational capability will cost American lives.” Master Sergeant (Retired) Eric Brandenburg—an Air Force combat veteran, Silver Star recipient, and former JTAC—said last year, “Our troops need the A-10. If our government truly has our troop’s safety and best interest at heart then retiring the A-10 wouldn’t even be an option. Even considering retiring the A-10 in my opinion is telling me and my brothers in arms that leadership is willing to trade politics over lethality on the battlefield.” Master Sergeant Brandenburg’s views are not an anomaly—they represent an overwhelming consensus among JTACs. During the annual TACP Association gathering in October, the attending JTACs were asked about the Air Force’s attempts to divest the A-10, and 100% of the responses were against the divestment. No one knows more about CAS than our JTACs, and it would be unwise for Congress to ignore their pleas and not protect the A-10 from premature divestment. JTACs are not the only ones who have expressed support for the A-10 and said other existing aircraft are not the same. Last year, when asked if the F-16 is the same as the A-10, with respect to close air support, General Raymond Odierno, the Army Chief of Staff, testified that, “It’s not the same.” He has also testified that “…we prefer the A-10.” On March 17, 2015, General Odierno testified that the A-10 has been the best close air support platform in Iraq and Afghanistan. When confronted with these statements by our nation’s CAS experts, the Air Force points to future capabilities and the F-35A as reasons not to be concerned about the premature divestment of the A-10. Someday, new technology may allow aircraft flying miles away at 10,000 feet to use high-tech munitions to safely and effectively target enemy forces in bad weather that are only a few dozen meters away from friendly ground troops. However, that day has not yet arrived. We still need CAS aircraft that can fly low and slow, beneath bad weather, close enough to the point of ground combat, and survive. We still need CAS aircraft that allow the pilot, in close coordination with the JTAC, to visually identify friendly and enemy positions and engage the enemy using rockets and guns. Likewise, the CAS capabilities of the F-35A remain to be seen, and the F-35A is not expected to achieve full operational capability until 2021 at the earliest—two years after the Air Force would like to send the last A-10 to the boneyard. The Air Force recently held a close air support conference that was highly managed by the Air Force leadership to support the pre-determined policy outcome regarding the A-10. Despite this, General Hawk Carlisle, the head of Air Force Combat Command, reportedly admitted that once the A-10 is gone and the F-35 is fielded, the Air Force “may need more [CAS] capacity at a lower cost.” It is notable that the Air Force is trying to divest its CAS aircraft with the least operational cost per flying hour to save money when it knows that such a course of action will result in a capacity shortfall. In its arguments in favor of A-10 divestment, as well as with data the Air Force has used to support its case, the Air Force consistently conflates air interdiction and CAS missions and ignores the unique challenges associated with many CAS missions, including moving targets, bad weather, and the particularly close proximity of friendly and enemy forces (“danger close missions”). This is not the Air Force’s first attempt to get rid of the A-10. According to a 1988 General Accounting Office (GAO) report, the Air Force—citing concerns about the survivability of the A-10—wanted to replace the A-10 with a modified F-16 beginning in 1993. According to the GAO report, the Department of Defense expressed concern about this Air Force proposal and suggested that the Air Force had not “adequately emphasized the close air support mission…” The A-10’s subsequent performance in Iraq and Afghanistan vindicated the Department of Defense’s decision to oppose the Air Force’s proposal. Many Americans would have not returned home from those wars if the Air Force had gotten its way then. Today’s A-10, extensively modernized and even more lethal, remains our nation’s best CAS platform. This year, the A-10’s performance in Iraq and Syria against ISIS and its deployment to Europe to deter additional aggression there underscore the A-10’s continued lethality, survivability, and effectiveness. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the Appropriations Committee appropriate the necessary funding for the A-10 for FY 2016. We stand ready to work with you and your staffs to identify appropriate offsets for this A-10 funding. With a proposed FY 2016 Air Force budget of $122 billion, it is not difficult to identify offsets for A-10 funding that will not exceed $737 million. The Air Force has not persuaded us that it can prematurely divest the A-10—our nation’s most combat-effective and cost–efficient CAS aircraft—without putting our ground troops in serious additional danger. For that reason, we look forward to working with you to prohibit the additional divestment of A-10 aircraft before an equally capable close air support aircraft achieves full operational capability. Thank you for your distinguished service to our country. Sincerely, Kelly A. Ayotte Roger Wicker Thom Tillis Michael Crapo David Perdue Johnny Isakson John Barrasso James E. Risch
04.01.2015	04.01.15 Growing A Stronger Georgia Guest Column: Growing A Stronger Georgia By Senator David Perdue Market Bulletin One of Georgia’s richest assets is our diverse and vibrant agricultural community. As I traveled across the state with Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black over the past two years, I’ve met with many family farmers and industry leaders who keep it growing. While I have only spent a few weeks in Washington, I have an incredible sense of responsibility in representing our state’s agricultural interests. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, my goal is to be a strong voice for our local farmers. In fact, during my first committee hearing we invited Ronnie Lee of Bronwood to share his personal experience in the field. Washington can learn a lot from Georgia’s farmers and how federal policies impact them directly. Our nation remains in a full-blown fiscal crisis. Georgians are frustrated, and justifiably so, by the onslaught of federal intrusion into the lives of farmers and their families. I heard repeatedly that we must act now to create commonsense policies that push back against the federal government’s burdensome overreach. There are several issues that must be addressed if we are going to promote a safe, secure, and robust agriculture industry in the future, and my business experience gives me a unique perspective to tackle these issues. Farm policies have done a great deal for agriculture in this country, including providing a safety net for producers during hard times, creating conservation programs that encourage stewardship of land and water, and establishing partnerships for research. However, agriculture now sees a more intrusive and burdensome regulatory climate. Farmers across our state are small business owners. They understand, like I do, that these excessive regulations have a negative effect on their businesses. Likewise, consumers see higher prices at the grocery store. Simply put, we must reign in these out of control regulators. We must grow access to skilled and legal labor as it is a critical component to the sustainability of agriculture. American agriculture needs a stable workforce, and Georgia farmers need an H2-A visa program that works. A March 2014 report released by the Partnership for a New American Economy and the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform found that “labor challenges faced by U.S. farmers and the inadequacies of the H2-A visa program are a key reason why American farmers have been unable to maintain their share of the domestic market.” Our state’s farmers deserve a program that makes them successful and sustainable for years to come. Another area of great potential is through our state’s agricultural exports. Currently, Georgia’s food and fiber exports are nearly a quarter of the percentage of farm gate value, nearly $3 billion. In 2013, the United States provided more than $144 billion in exports, and Georgia’s contribution was roughly 2% of total exports. But the world will be counting on Georgia to help feed its growing population. By 2050, the world is expected to have a population of 9 billion people. It is imperative that food and fiber production is able to sustain this sort of growth going forward. The only way that we are going to emerge stronger is through rededicating ourselves to the founding principles of economic opportunity, fiscal responsibility, limited government, and individual liberty. My commitment to these ideas remains strong, and they will form the backbone of my service here in the United States Senate. I remain humbled, sobered, and encouraged as I fight for Georgians. My wife, Bonnie, and I ask for your prayers, input, and advice as we, together, seek to better the great state of Georgia and our nation.
03.31.2015	03.31.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Call on President to Withdraw EPA’s Harmful Overreach WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today called on President Obama to withdraw the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) massive rule to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants. In a letter to President Obama signed by Isakson and Perdue, the senators raised serious concerns over the administration’s proposed Clean Power Plan – an onerous regulation that would require Georgia’s energy providers to fundamentally restructure its generation of electricity, unnecessarily driving up electrical bills for Georgia families. “For many years the EPA has been out of touch, but since the Obama administration took over, the new controls sought by this agency seem to have no limit,” said Senator Isakson. “I have fought the EPA since the rule was first proposed and I will continue to fight this and any rule that would be result in significant electricity rate increases and additional energy costs for Georgians.” “By imposing substantial costs on Georgia consumers and businesses, and placing the supply of affordable and reliable electricity at grave risk, our state will endure economic hardship and our citizens will pay the price,” said Senator Perdue. “The consequences of the EPA’s plan for Georgia and our constitutions will be disastrous, and I strongly urge the Obama administration to stop this energy overreach.” Click here to read the full letter. Background: In June of 2014, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed a rule requiring states to severely restrict carbon emissions from existing power plants. It would radically curtail coal’s share of electricity generation. The rule, which is expected to be finalized this summer, claims to offer states “flexibility” to choose for themselves which carbon-reduction measures to implement. Instead, it enables the Obama administration to shift the burden of implementation to states. While the rule allows states to submit plans to the EPA detailing what energy choices they will make to comply with carbon emissions caps, if a state does not submit a plan that meets the Obama administration’s approval, the EPA will impose a federal implementation plan that makes energy choices for that state. A majority of states, including Georgia, have already submitted comments in opposition to the rule. A study by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce found that a plan of this type would increase America's electricity bills, decrease a family's disposable income and result in job losses.
03.30.2015	03.30.15 Senators Isakson and Perdue to Host Military Academy Day on May 9 (Registration deadline April 29) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) in coordination with the Georgia congressional delegation announced their statewide Military Academy Day event will take place on May 9, 2015. The annual event, which is the largest of its kind in the country, is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for the nation’s five military service academies. Along with Isakson and Perdue, U.S. Representatives Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11), Jody Hice (R-GA-10), Hank Johnson (D-GA-4), Tom Price (R-GA-6), and Rob Woodall (R-GA-7) are scheduled to participate in the event. The event will be held at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Marietta from 10:00 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. Guests may arrive as early as 9:00 a.m. in order to avoid congestion at the entrance gate and visit information tables. Representatives from all five academies, including Liaison Officers from the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the Southeast Regional Commander of Admissions for the U.S. Military Academy, the Dean of Admissions for the U.S. Naval Academy, an admissions officer from the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, the Deputy Director of Admissions for the U.S. Air Force Academy and the Director of the U.S. Department of Defense’s Medical Examinations Review Board will give presentations regarding their requirements and expectations for admittance. The event is open to students in grades eight through 12. Additionally, the Lassiter-Pope-Kell Navy Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps (JR ROTC) Armed Exhibition Drill Team will perform at the beginning of the program and will be honored for their 10 years of performance at the Georgia Statewide Academy Day. “This annual event is truly a ‘can’t miss’ opportunity for students interested in pursuing a nomination to our nation’s service academies,” said Isakson. “Hearing directly from representatives from each academy is an advantage not every student has the opportunity to experience and allows students to select and better prepare for the program that is the best fit.” “Our state has a proud military tradition, and it’s important that young Georgians considering the armed forces take advantage of this unique opportunity to learn more about this honorable pursuit,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgia students who enter our service academies deserve our support, and Military Academy Day is an important step in strengthening our military communities.” Due to Dobbins’ security restrictions, all individuals planning to attend the event must make reservations in advance. Photo identification will be required at the main entrance gate for admittance. All individuals who are interested in attending must make a reservation by registering online no later than Wednesday, April 29, 2015, at 5:00 p.m here. And they may contact Sarah Baska at Sarah_Baska@Perdue.Senate.gov with any questions
03.27.2015	03.27.15 Senator David Perdue Urges Lawmakers to Solve Our Fiscal Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today released the following statement after the Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Resolution: “Georgians are commonsense people, and they know that families can’t spend money they don’t have, and the government cannot either,” said Senator Perdue. “They know our outrageous national debt is a threat to both our economic and global security. In the Senate, we have spent the last six weeks dealing with the last six years of fiscal irresponsibility that has failed middle class families. “Today, we passed a budget that is simply a first step in solving our long-term fiscal crisis. Even though this budget isn’t perfect, it lays the critical groundwork of balancing the budget and eventually creating a surplus to start paying down our debt. It starts by confronting our nation's chronic overspending and safeguarding the future for our kids and grandkids. “We have a lot more work to do to improve the overall budget process, and I call upon all of my Senate colleagues to approach our fiscal crisis with a renewed sense of urgency. This means we can’t merely celebrate the passage of a budget and then avoid the politically difficult, but essential, decisions on our national debt. It’s here. It’s growing. We must tackle it head-on before it’s too late, and I will work every day on behalf of Georgians to ensure that we do.”
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Senator David Perdue Calls for Congressional Oversight of Overreaching CFPB Regulators WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today responded to President Obama’s remarks regarding the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Last week, Senator Perdue offered a budget amendment to assure Congressional oversight of the CFPB. Senator Perdue’s amendment was approved by the Budget Committee and included in the underlying Senate Budget Resolution. “President Obama today called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau an independent consumer watchdog. As a consumer watchdog, the CFPB should not be exempt from the Congressional appropriations process for political purposes. Former CFPB architect, Senator Elizabeth Warren, and her Democrat colleagues are clearly more concerned with preserving political power than protecting consumers. By design, Dodd-Frank established a dangerous precedent allowing this rogue agency to be unaccountable to Congress. No executive rulemaking agency or regulator should have this kind of autonomy. “Getting the CFPB under Congressional oversight should not be a partisan issue. It’s a part of a broader goal to make government more accountable. Washington should not dictate the specific financial decisions consumers and families must make every day. Other financial institutions – such as the SEC, CFTC, and FTC – are subject to the appropriations process and Congressional oversight, and the CFPB should be no different. This is just a first step in reining in overreaching regulators who have been acting outside of any Congressional approval.”
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Senator David Perdue Votes To Allow States to Opt Out of Common Core WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today voted for a budget amendment proposed by Senator David Vitter (R-LA) which would prohibit the federal government from mandating or coercing states to adopt specific academic standards, including the Common Core standards, curriculum, or assessments. The Local Control of Education Act would also allow states that choose to opt out of Common Core to remain eligible for Race to the Top funding and waivers from No Child Left Behind. “We cannot allow the Obama Administration to force states into Common Core,” said Senator Perdue. “States must be allowed to tailor their education systems to their students’ needs. The twenty-first century can also be an ‘American Century,’ and we’ll need an educated workforce to out-innovate, out-work, and out-dream the rest of the world. “But sending more money and power to Washington is not going to give our kids the tools they need to succeed. We must send those resources to back to our local communities where parents, teachers, and local officials can best help each child succeed. In the Senate, I will continue to fight against Washington’s harmful overreach, and fight for the local control of educational choices for Georgians and all Americans.”
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Senator David Perdue Video Statement on 5th Anniversary of Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following video statement on the fifth anniversary of Obamacare: Click here to watch the video: Transcript: Today marks five years since Obamacare was signed into law. Georgians and Americans across the country continue to struggle due to its harmful effects. A majority of Americans are opposed to President Obama’s healthcare law, and it’s easy to see why. Many people have been forced off their healthcare plans and seen their out of pocket costs rise. President Obama broke his promise that if you like your plan, you can keep your plan. My wife Bonnie and I – like so many others – had our own plan cancelled. The American people want and deserve access to quality and affordable healthcare. They also want to work full-time. But because of Obamacare, many middle-class Americans can’t find full-time jobs to support their families. Too many small businesses have cut back workers’ hours because of Obamacare, and hardworking people are forced to work under 30 hours a week. In Georgia, another negative impact is the one on rural hospitals that help some of the sickest and most vulnerable people in our communities. Finally, the doctor-patient relationship is a personal one. It sometimes takes years to find a doctor that’s right for you and your family. Yet, Obamacare slashes physician networks, preventing people from seeing the doctor they’ve learned to like and trust. It’s crystal clear that Obamacare is a step backward for our country, and a crushing burden on our future. There is no doubt that America can achieve a healthcare system that lowers costs, increases access to doctors, and doesn't negatively impact our economy. Georgians sent me to the Senate to help solve problems and get our economy back on track. Getting rid of Obamacare and replacing it with a patient-centered alternative is a top priority. That’s why I have co-sponsored a full repeal of Obamacare, and I will continue to fight to put people first and get Washington out of the way. Thank you, and God bless you.
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Senator David Perdue Calls Waters of the United States Rule “Blatant Government Overreach” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today highlighted his opposition to the proposed rule from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that would drastically redefine, which waters are subjected to regulatory requirements under the Clean Water Act. “The EPA’s proposed rule is nothing short of blatant government overreach and I have serious concerns about the consequences it could have for Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgians are fed up with Washington because of burdensome rules and regulations that negatively impact our farmers, small businesses, and private citizens. “Thousands of Georgia farmers, including Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black and many Georgia Farm Bureau members, have already voiced their disapproval. I share their concerns since this rule would give Washington authority over virtually any low place that can form a puddle. We have seen a grassroots effort to defeat this rule because of the negative impact it would have on our communities. For example, in Gwinnett County, nearly 3,000 miles of roads, 1,500 miles of streams, and 1,400 miles of drainage ditches would be impacted. “The EPA should completely rescind this rule, and instead work to help our agricultural community grow and thrive.” Background: On April 21, 2014, the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers published a proposed rule to redefine the regulatory term “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. This proposed rule, if finalized, would significantly expand federal authority under the Clean Water Act beyond that intended by Congress. The comment period was extended twice and finally ended on November 14, 2014. There were over one million comments submitted nationwide. Georgia Farm Bureau members submitted 15,558 comments calling for the withdrawal of the proposed rule. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy has said the agency is moving toward finalization.
03.19.2015	03.19.15 Senator David Perdue Introduces Budget Amendment To Rein In Rogue Agency WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today introduced an amendment to the Senate’s 2015 Budget Resolution regarding the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Given the expansive reach of the CFPB, Senator Perdue’s budget amendment will provide critical Congressional oversight. “The reckless Consumer Finance Protection Bureau was spawned from the disastrous Dodd-Frank financial regulation law,” said Senator Perdue. “Right now, the CFPB is a rogue agency that dishes out malicious financial policy and creates new rules and regulations without any oversight from Congress. On top of that, the agency itself has failed to operate within its own budget and proven it is more concerned with preserving its own power than protecting the public. Ultimately, I believe the CFPB should be dismantled, but an important first step is bringing it into the light for the American people to see its harmful effects on consumers.” Background: Senator Perdue’s budget amendment will ensure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is subject to the Congressional appropriations process. Currently, the CFPB operates under the Federal Reserve and is unaccountable to Congress. Dodd-Frank established the CFPB’s budget at as much as 12% of the Fed’s annual operating expense. That is roughly $600 million without any Congressional oversight over the agency’s functions.
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Senator David Perdue Celebrates Georgia Farmers On National Agriculture Day WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today issued the following statement in observance of National Agriculture Day: “Today, we celebrate the prominence of agriculture in Georgia’s economy and way of life. As our state’s oldest and largest industry, agriculture provides Georgia with a true competitive advantage. “Not only do Georgians produce an array of goods like pecans, peanuts, peaches, chickens, cotton, and blueberries, but they do so in a smart and innovative way. Farmers are working with new technology to increase productivity and efficiency, while acting as responsible stewards of the land. “It is an honor to maintain the long-standing tradition of representing Georgia on the Agriculture Committee where I am focused on working with our farmers, industry leaders, and consumers to keep Georgia’s agricultural tradition growing.” Senator Perdue serves on the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. He chairs the Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry and Natural Resources.
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Senator David Perdue: We Are In The Midst Of A Full-Blown Financial Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today discussed our full-blown financial crisis, and what we must do to get our country back on track. In a Senate Budget Committee hearing, Senator Perdue called on Congress to balance the budget, pay down our debt, and grow the economy, before the consequences destroy our way of life. Click here to watch the video. Transcript: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your leadership and perseverance in this budget process. I would also like to commend the committee staff for bringing this budget resolution in on time and for their tireless efforts. Being new to the Senate, I have an outside perspective, and it allows me to see our current financial situation the way every working family in America sees it. Back home in Georgia, people are outraged – I am outraged – by the financial irresponsibility of Washington. But there are no innocent players up here in this drama. My take is very simple: we are in the midst a full-blown financial crisis of our own making. It’s real, it’s serious, and it’s happening right now. Today in this crisis, we have reached the financial tipping point in three critical areas: First, today we have over $18 trillion in debt. If interest rates rise to their 30-year average, just over five and a half percent, we would be paying almost $1 trillion in interest alone. That’s just not possible. In 2016, interest expense increases by $50 billion. Imagine, in one year, what we could do to support our troops or pay down our debt with that money. But the problem gets worse. While current annual budget deficits are down a bit, they are projected to turn around and rise again in the next few years. In the President’s own budget, debt is projected to rise to $26 trillion by 2025. As a business guy, this level of debt is just totally unsustainable. The second tipping point relates to our future unfunded liabilities estimated in excess of $100 trillion. To put that in perspective, this liability, combined with our current debt, amounts to almost $1 million per household. The final tipping point involves the Social Security Trust Fund, which is not within the scope of the Budget Committee today. A few weeks ago, the head of the Social Security Administration testified before this committee that the retirement portion of Social Security would be exhausted by 2034 and Social Security Disability would not be able to meet its obligations as early as 2017. Even if we borrow from the retirement side and move funds to the disability side, both will be exhausted by 2033. And this administration has no plan for those people who need it past 2033. This is what drives my constituents back home in Georgia absolutely crazy. As bad as that is, the worst is yet to come. Over the next 20 years, demands on the trust fund driven by baby boom retirees will cause these costs to rise dramatically. Without changes, Medicare will also be exhausted around 2030. Over the next year, we’ve got to work together to save Social Security and Medicare and ensure our current seniors and those who need help most in these safety net programs. They’re the most at risk here by our fiscal irresponsibility. For too long, Washington dysfunction has created gridlock. One side wants tax increases and the other side wants spending cuts. In my experience, neither one will solve the equation in its entirety. We cannot tax our way out of this mess, and we sure can’t cut our way out of it, alone. To break the gridlock and start solving the debt crisis, we simply have to get our economy growing again. One point in GDP growth means over $3 trillion in federal tax revenues over the next 10 years. The challenge to growing our economy, however, is the fact that current economic policies of the past six years have failed working families who have seen their incomes decline dramatically. We have fewer people working as a percentage of the workforce than any time since 1978. In addition, over the past six years, we’ve allowed four million women to fall into poverty under these policies. Almost two-thirds of small businesses have stopped hiring or have cut back employment because of the Affordable Care Act. Most new jobs being created today are part-time jobs, and the 30-hour rule of the Affordable Care Act is devastating many working families. In the midst of all that, we now see the Obama Administration again turn its back on working Americans by vetoing the Keystone Pipeline, simply put, a jobs bill. Exacerbating the problem is the fact that we have more than $2 trillion trapped overseas because of our archaic repatriation tax code. If we could get Washington out of the way, imagine this capital roaring back into our economy, creating jobs, and spurring incredible economic growth. In addition, comprehensive tax reform, which we’ve talked about today on both sides is needed, along with reducing abusive regulations, and unleashing our energy potential here in North America. Doing those three things alone could jump start this economy in a way that we haven’t seen for decades. This current budget resolution calls for a balanced budget within 10 years, but that is just the first step, in my opinion. Over the next year, this committee has to commit to work every day to find a way to grow this economy, allowing us to balance our budget sooner. Merely balancing the budget is not good enough, however. We need to develop a long-term plan to develop a surplus budget so we can begin to pay this debt down eventually to some more reasonable level over the long term. To avoid financial calamity, it is time we work in a non-partisan way to break this gridlock. With a crisis of this magnitude, there are no innocent parties here in Washington. Both sides are guilty – even today. This is really about our commitment to fulfill our oath of office to “protect and defend the Constitution of the United States” by solving this financial crisis right now. We simply have to work together on this budget resolution, both sides, and then commit to developing a surplus plan over the long term to pay down this debt, to save Social Security, and to provide for Medicare in the long term and make sure these safety net programs that we all want are indeed solvent and can be sustained indefinitely. Winston Churchill once said, “Americans always do the right thing, after they have tried everything else.” Well, it’s high time for us to do the right thing – both sides – right now. God knows we’ve tried everything else. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
03.11.2015	03.11.15 Isakson, Perdue: Obama Administration Must Withdraw Ammo Ban WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today signed on to a letter calling on the Obama administration to withdraw a proposed regulation that would effectively ban certain ammunition used in AR-15-style rifles and other firearms. The letter to B. Todd Jones, director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, or ATF, states, “Second Amendment rights require not only access to firearms but to bullets. If law-abiding gun owners cannot obtain rifle ammunition, or face substantial difficulty in finding ammunition available and at reasonable process because government entities are banning such ammunition, then the Second Amendment is at risk.” The letter argues that ATF’s new framework that allows it to apply a ban to rifle ammunition would deprive many law-abiding rifle owners of the ability to obtain cartridges that are commonly used for sporting purposes such as target shooting and hunting. The letter also makes clear that Congress did not, and did not intend to, ban this form of ammunition. It also notes that ATF’s proposed ban would encompass a type of ammunition that is frequently used in the AR-15, the most popular rifle design in the United States. “As Georgians know, I am committed to protecting the unfettered Second Amendment rights of all Americans, and this proposal puts the Second Amendment at risk,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the bipartisan Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. “This proposed ban is yet another example of the Obama administration reinterpreting the Constitution to suit its purposes, rather than following Congress and the will of the people.” “This is another example of President Obama trying to circumvent Congress and the Constitution to get his way,” said Senator Perdue. “Our Second Amendment rights shouldn’t be a part of a cynical political game. Georgians deserve leaders who will defend the Constitution and create commonsense policies, and I will work every day to fulfill those goals.” The letter was authored by Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and signed by 52 senators, including Isakson and Perdue.
03.10.2015	03.10.15 Isakson, Perdue: Tax Code Shouldn’t Reward Those Who Broke Immigration Laws WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today co-sponsored legislation to prevent millions of individuals benefitting from the president’s 2014 executive amnesty action from collecting a tax credit based on work performed while in this country illegally. The president’s action last year to grant amnesty to millions here illegally also opened the door for those individuals to be eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit, which helps low- to moderate-income workers. The legislation co-sponsored by Isakson and Perdue would prohibit those here illegally from being eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit. “To reward individuals who are in this country illegally, and to do so with hardworking taxpayers’ dollars, is incomprehensible and unacceptable,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate Committee on Finance with jurisdiction over tax policy and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). “Yet millions of individuals benefiting from the president’s unconstitutional executive amnesty could become eligible to claim a tax credit based on a questionable interpretation of tax rules by the IRS. I will continue to do all that I can to stop this executive immigration overreach and will fight to prevent the IRS from doling out hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars to those who broke our immigration laws.” “President Obama’s illegal executive amnesty has many negative consequences, and this tax loophole is one of them,” said Senator Perdue. “I urge my Senate colleagues to stop the President’s unconstitutional actions, and preventing these benefits from going to those who broke our immigration laws and were granted amnesty is an important step." This bill is intended to close a loophole created by an IRS interpretation that has the effect of allowing those receiving deferred immigration action to qualify for a credit they were previously denied or otherwise ineligible for at the time. It is consistent with policy put in place in 1996 intended to deny the credit to those not authorized to work in the United States. This legislation would prohibit individuals receiving deferred action from claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit unless they were eligible to claim the credit for the year in question and were authorized to be employed in the United States for the entire taxable year. This prohibition would apply to the year in which they are granted deferred action and to all their previous tax returns. To help the IRS administer the requirement, the legislation requires the Department of Homeland Security to share necessary information with the Social Security Administration so that it will be able to establish Social Security number identifiers that would alert the IRS to those who have received deferred action. The legislation was introduced by Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and was co-sponsored by Isakson and Perdue along with Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Jim nhofe (R-OK), Tim Scott (R-SC), Pat Roberts (R-KS), James Risch (R-ID), and John Boozman (R-AR).
03.10.2015	03.10.15 Senator Perdue: Georgia Tech Serves As A Model For Success WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released a statement regarding President Obama’s visit to Georgia Tech: “It’s ironic that President Obama continues to say that something must be done about higher education. On his watch, college costs have skyrocketed. We can all agree that college should be more accessible, and we cannot continue to burden our children with more debt, but President Obama’s strategy won't work. “As a proud Georgia Tech alumnus, and former board member of the Georgia Tech Foundation, I have witnessed many Georgia-based solutions that can serve as a model for success. Because the twenty-first century demands more technical degrees, job training programs, and online learning options, Georgia Tech has responded to help students enter the modern economy. “Georgia Tech launched the first online Master’s degree program using Massive Open Online Course technology and continues to innovate in online education. The Georgia Tech Promise Program, which offers debt-free degrees to Georgia families who need it most, is another model the country can emulate. Additionally, the Advanced Technology Development Center is a market-based incubator, which helps entrepreneurs launch successful startup businesses. “Yellow Jackets know that Georgia-based problems should be fixed with Georgia-based solutions. I will continue to fight against Washington’s power-grab over our education system and fight to bring down college costs for everyone."
03.09.2015	03.09.15 Senator David Perdue Calls For Congressional Approval Over Negotiations With Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today joined 46 other Senators in writing an open letter to the leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran about ongoing nuclear negotiations. The letter states that an agreement between President Obama and Iran, without Congressional approval, is nothing more than an executive agreement that can be terminated when President Obama is no longer in office. “We cannot accept a bad deal with Iran regarding its nuclear program. President Obama must work with Congress in making sure that Iran is never capable of obtaining a nuclear weapons capability,” said Senator Perdue. “Congress should have the opportunity to review any agreement reached with Iran to ensure the Obama Administration has not made any dangerous concessions throughout the process. It’s critical that the leaders of Iran are aware of Congress’ role, and I call on President Obama to responsibly work with Congress so that we can make sure Iran’s ambition for a nuclear weapon is quelled.” Click here to read the full letter.
03.04.2015	03.04.15 Senator Perdue On Keystone Veto Override: It Should Never Have Come To This WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today responded to the Senate’s attempt to override President Obama’s veto of the bipartisan Keystone jobs bill. The bill passed both chambers in a bipartisan fashion, but fell short of the 67 votes needed to override a presidential veto with a 62-37 vote. “Let’s be honest, it should have never come to this. President Obama’s failed policies have decimated the middle class. The Keystone jobs bill would have offered a jumpstart to the economy. Clearly, the President is not serious about a bipartisan approach to working with Congress and helping the middle class. “Georgians sent me to Washington to fight for smart, practical solutions, and the bipartisan, bicameral Keystone project is one of them. It will create tens of thousands of jobs, bring us closer to energy independence, and will help lower energy costs for families and small businesses across the country. “Even though President Obama chose special interests over helping the American people, I will continue to fight to build the Keystone Pipeline so we can unlock our full energy potential and make Washington work again.”
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Senator Perdue: Irresponsible For Any Member of Congress to Turn Their Back On Our Ally, Israel WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today called on all Members of Congress to attend the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s joint address to Congress and the American people: “I welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu to the United States, and strongly urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate to ignore the political theatre and pay attention to the serious concerns of the Israeli Prime Minister. Members should focus on the substance of the Prime Minister’s concerns, not the venue of their delivery. It is irresponsible for any Member of Congress to refuse to even listen to the Prime Minister and turn their back on our ally, Israel, at such a critical time. “The Prime Minister’s address to Congress and the American people is not only timely, but it is also an important step in preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapons capability. This is not just about America’s or Israel’s security – this is about global security. “From ISIL to Iran, the Obama Administration has a dangerous habit of kicking the can down the road and ignoring growing challenges to our national security. This cannot happen when dealing with an Iranian regime that is determined on developing a nuclear weapon and accruing power in the region. “We should uphold the long-standing tradition of bipartisan support for a robust strategy to prevent Iran from developing such weapons. A nuclear-armed Iran would spell disaster for the region, usher in a new era of nuclear proliferation, and would threaten America and our allies. As a member of the Senator Foreign Relations Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that we have a strong and consistent foreign policy that projects leadership around the world, and never takes for granted our partners in freedom and democracy.” Click here to watch remarks from Senator Perdue and Prime Minister Netanyahu in Israel from last month.
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Senator David Perdue Condemns NLRB’s Malicious Ambush Election Rule WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today cosponsored a resolution to overturn the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)’s misguided regulations on labor union elections. “This ruling from the NLRB is another example of why the American people are disgusted with Washington – it will negatively affect employee privacy and hurts businesses,” said Senator Perdue. “My business experience has shown me that both transparency and trust are essential elements of a strong workplace, and the NLRB’s encouragement of ambush union elections undermines both. “A majority of Senators have joined to condemn this ruling, and I will work with all of them to make sure that employers and employees alike have the opportunity to work and contribute to our economy without fear of their personal information being exposed, and with a fair shake under the law.” Background: In December, the NLRB issued a final rule making drastic changes to union representation election procedures. Known as the “ambush elections rule,” it is slated to go into effect April 14, 2015. The rule makes an end run around employers and forces workers to make the critical decision about whether to unionize their workplace without all the facts. The rule ambushes employers and employees by shortening the time between a union petition and a representation election from the current median of 38 days to as few as 11 days. This dramatically limits employers’ ability to respond to unionization efforts, curtails their free speech, and limits their ability to exercise their rights under the law. The rule infringes on employee privacy by expanding the personal information about its employees (cellular phone numbers, personal email addresses, work schedules, and shift locations) an employer must hand over to unions.
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Senator Perdue: We Must Come Together To Stop The President’s Lawless Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to stop President Obama’s executive amnesty as part of the Department of Homeland Security funding bill: “My top priority is defending the Constitution, and protecting the balance of power put in place by our Founders. In addition, as outlined in the Constitution, one of the most important roles of the federal government is to protect our national security. That is why I voted five times to responsibly fund the Department of Homeland Security, while stopping the President's egregious and lawless executive amnesty. “Unfortunately, Democrats played politics with our national security, and actually blocked Republicans’ numerous attempts to fund DHS weeks ago. This gridlock is why Georgians are so frustrated with Washington, and why they sent me here to try to make a difference. Georgians want and deserve a federal government that functions responsibly and respects the rule of law. As a federal court recently confirmed, the President’s executive amnesty was unlawful and unacceptable overreach. “We must come together to stop the President’s abuse of power, and never lose sight of the principles in the Constitution that we all took an oath to protect.”
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Isakson, Perdue Congratulate Georgia Superintendent on Being Named 2015 National Superintendent of the Year Clarke County’s Philip D. Lanoue awarded national honor by School Superintendents Association WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today congratulated Clarke County School District Superintendent Philip D. Lanoue of Athens, Georgia on being named the 2015 National School Superintendent of the Year by the School Superintendents Association on Thursday, Feb. 26, 2015. “I send my heartiest congratulations and thanks to Dr. Lanoue on his achievement,” said Senator Isakson. “His efforts earned him a wonderful award and recognition from his peers, and also bring honor to the administration and students of Clarke County School District as well as to our entire state. It is wonderful that a Georgia superintendent is being honored nationally.” “All Georgians are proud of Dr. Philip Lanoue for his outstanding work as Clarke County Superintendent,” said Senator Perdue. “Sending more money and power to Washington is not going to make our schools better. The best way to improve our education system is to ensure Georgia’s local education leaders, parents, teachers, and administrators like Dr. Lanoue have the tools they need to help our children learn and succeed.” Lanoue has a distinguished record of achievement throughout his career, including in the Cobb County School District as an area assistant superintendent before being named superintendent in Clarke County in July 2009. He received his Ph.D. from Mercer University in Macon, Ga. Lanoue was named Georgia Superintendent of the Year on Dec. 5, 2014, by the Georgia School Superintendents Association and the Georgia School Boards Association. That designation made him eligible to be considered for the national award. Isakson has spent much of his public service career focused on education issues and served as chair of the Georgia Board of Education for two years, from 1997 until 1999.
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue, Cosponsor Legislation to Prevent Taxpayer Funding for Abortions WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) recently cosponsored legislation to prohibit taxpayer funding for abortion. Currently, similar policies, such as the Hyde Amendment, must be renewed each year and do not fully apply to Obamacare. “It’s an obligation of the federal government to protect innocent life, and it’s high time that we work to end loopholes which make taxpayers responsible to pay for abortion,” said Senator Perdue. “I stand with Georgians in working towards a nation that values life, and I will continue to be a strong voice for those values in the Senate.” “It is incomprehensible to me that American tax dollars would ever fund abortions,” said Isakson. “This legislation helps not only ensure that this prohibition is permanent and that it applies to Obamacare, but also allows Georgians who value life to have a clear understanding of which plans under Obamacare cover elective abortion procedures. It is time this administration provides transparency to taxpayers as to where their hard-earned dollars go.” The “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,” S. 582, is the Senate companion to H.R. 7, authored by Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ-4), and Dan Lipinski (R-IL-3). That bill passed the House by a vote of 242-179 on January 22, 2015.
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Senator David Perdue: The Internet Should Not Be Over Regulated By Unelected Federal Bureaucrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released a statement on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)’s Internet regulations. The Internet is now reclassified from an information service to a telecommunications service. The FCC will now be able to exert more authority over Internet access. The regulations also include wirelessaccess. “The Internet should not be over regulated by unelected federal bureaucrats,” said Senator Perdue. “We deserve a more open Internet - not one that’s controlled and mandated by Washington. In fact, any policy coming out of Washington should promote our free enterprise system, innovation, and more competition. The FCC’s latest Internet regulation plan falls short of these marks. “The FCC also left lawmakers in the dark throughout this entire process. The FCC’s lack of transparency is another example of why Georgians are furious with Washington. I call upon the FCC and all federal agencies to work in a transparent manner, to operate within Constitutional limits, and to enact policies that actually help the American people.”
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Senator David Perdue Votes Against Loretta Lynch Nomination For Attorney General WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), a member of the Judiciary Committee, today voted against the nomination of Loretta Lynch for Attorney General: “Today, I voted against Loretta Lynch’s nomination to be Attorney General. As I stated a few weeks ago, Ms. Lynch’s resume is very impressive and is not what leads me to oppose her nomination. After years of mismanagement and politicization by Attorney General Eric Holder, the Department of Justice needs an Attorney General who is committed to putting the law above politics. I thoroughly reviewed Ms. Lynch’s record and testimony, and I am not convinced she can provide the kind of independent leadership required to make consistent law enforcement, not partisan politics, the Justice Department’s top priority once again. “I strongly disagree with her support for President Obama’s executive amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants, which a federal district court found to be unlawful last week. I am simply not confident that Ms. Lynch will defend the Constitution, especially when the President seeks to abuse his power, and I cannot support her nomination.”
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Senator David Perdue Calls President Obama’s Veto Of Bipartisan Keystone Jobs Bill Ridiculous WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today responded to President Obama’s decision to veto the bipartisan Keystone jobs bill. The bill passed both chambers in bipartisan fashion, with a 62-36 vote in the Senate and 270-152 in the House. “It’s ridiculous that President Obama vetoed the Keystone Pipeline jobs bill. Georgians are sick and tired of petty politics and gridlock in Washington, and President Obama’s veto is the epitome of both. “This bipartisan, bicameral jobs bill will create tens of thousands of jobs, it will get us closer to energy independence, and will help lower energy costs for families and small businesses across the country. It’s a shame that the President has chosen special interests over helping the American people. “Despite the President’s veto, I am optimistic that Congress’ bipartisan work on the Keystone jobs bill is a signal that lawmakers want to actually get things done. I can only hope that President Obama will let go of gridlock and join us in making Washington work again.”
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Senator David Perdue Introduces Georgia Farmer In First Agriculture Committee Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today discussed the impact of Washington’s policies on the agricultural community in both Georgia and around the country. Senator Perdue introduced one of the hearing witnesses, Ronnie Lee from Bronwood, Georgia. Lee is a cotton, peanut, wheat, corn, soybean, pecan, and cattle producer. Lee spoke to the committee about the important impact of farm policy. “As I traveled across the great state of Georgia, I met with Mr. Lee and other family farmers who lead our agriculture communities,” said Senator Perdue. “Washington should draw on their wealth of knowledge and their experiences in the field. Their voice and concerns are critical as we discuss the importance of the farm bill and other agricultural issues that impact our farmers directly.” “Our industries believe that sound farm policy is essential to the economic viability of the cotton and peanut industries,” said Ronnie Lee. “It is critical that U.S. farm policy is designed and implemented to provide a sound foundation for agriculture production.” View and download photos here and video here.
02.20.2015	02.20.15 Senator David Perdue Highlights Strategic Partnership With Israel, Meets With Prime Minister Netanyahu WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) traveled to Israel this week – his first international trip as a U.S. Senator and member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “I’m grateful for the warm hospitality of the Israeli people,” said Senator Perdue. “As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I deemed it imperative that my first trip be to Israel. “The United States-Israel relationship is significant because it is both special and strategic. It is special because we share the common values of freedom and democracy, and it’s strategic because Israel is America’s strongest ally in the most volatile part of the world. “After meeting with so many people and experiencing Israeli culture firsthand, I now have a much deeper understanding of the threats and opportunities Israelis face on a daily basis. I also have a greater sense of urgency to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Israel. I am eager to welcome and hear Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address to Congress next month, and I hope that continuous dialogue between our two nations will strengthen our relationship.” Click here to watch video of Prime Minister Netanyahu and Senator Perdue. Transcript of Senator Perdue's remarks below: Senator Perdue: “Mr. Prime Minister, thank you so much for the hospitality of your people this week. This is my first trip as a sitting Senator, and I did that on purpose. I wanted to send a message about how strongly I personally feel about our relationship between our two countries, but I share your concern about Iran. In my opinion, the most dangerous thing to man-kind’s future is a nuclear Iran. The current negotiations are headed toward a March deadline, and I hope that we get a resolution that will give us the end-result that will propel us into a period of peace with regard to non-proliferation. Not a managed proliferation, but a non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. So, you have my personal support. I hope for the best, and I look forward to welcoming you, and hope that you will enjoy your trip to the United States next month, and we’re very much looking forward to your comments as you visit our country.” ###
02.13.2015	02.13.15 Now In The Senate, Georgia’s Perdue Still Aims To Be Outsider WASHINGTON — David Perdue has an idea for his forthcoming maiden speech in the U.S. Senate: Bring back the jean jacket. Perdue and his jacket formed a ubiquitous image on Georgia television screens last year, as he stood in a field staring off toward the horizon, branded as “The Outsider.” Why would the message change after winning the election? “I can’t get any support from these guys,” Perdue said of his staff. “I don’t know that it fits the decorum of the Senate, but maybe for a day,” communications director Megan Whittemore said. “Hey, anything to break up the mood, right?” Perdue added. Still striving to be the outsider Jean jacket or no, the Republican Perdue continues to position himself as an outsider, even as he settles in to the Senate. Working out of a cramped three-room basement freshman office for the next few months, Perdue is vocal about his frustrations but optimistic that he can carve out a role tackling the fiscal issues he holds dear and priorities important to the state. It bothered Perdue that it took the Senate 2 1/2 weeks and a barrage of amendments to pass a Keystone XL pipeline bill that “should have been a no-brainer.” But he enjoys his Friday afternoons presiding over a mostly empty Senate, listening to the speeches from senators from both parties. To Perdue’s surprise, “there’s a lot of content in those speeches” to learn from. Among the early bonds he has formed is with Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., who knew Perdue when the freshman was CEO of Nashville-based Dollar General. Corker, who built a large construction company, also has a business background. Corker said Perdue has managed better than he did in his own 2007 debut. “I don’t know where he developed this knowledge, but he understands more fully the inner workings of the Senate when he came in,” Corker said. “He gets the issues. He’s a quick study. He also gets how things need to operate.” An opportunity to be a go-to Corker, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, asked Perdue to be chairman of a subcommittee overseeing the State Department and other related agencies. Corker intends to reauthorize the State Department for the first time since 2002. That means reviewing and revising congressional direction for how the department is run, action that will run through Perdue’s subcommittee. “Once he goes through this process, probably more than anybody in the U.S. Senate, he will know those inner workings (at the State Department) in a firsthand way,” Corker said. “That will make him the go-to.” Perdue would love to be a go-to on the federal budget, as fiscal matters were his top priority throughout the campaign, but there are plenty of Republicans who feel the same way. Perdue scored a seat on the Budget Committee and is eager to dig in. Seeking a budget surplus During Perdue’s first hearing, Budget Chairman Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., recognized the freshman to question a witness. “I want to welcome our newest senator to the committee and thank him for all the work that he’s done in the private sector at balancing budgets,” Enzi said. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I’d like to correct you on one thing,” Perdue replied. “If I had ever balanced the budget, I would have been fired every single time. We had to produce a few more dollars on the positive side than the negative side.” A few seats away, the moment made Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., a fellow CEO-turned-senator, light up. “People who served here too long or people who didn’t serve in the private sector, they get an attitude if we can keep our deficit to 3 percent of (gross domestic product) or 4 percent of GDP, that’s OK,” Johnson said in an interview. “That’s not the attitude David and I have, which is not just to balance the budget but have a surplus.” Perdue, who got excited to snag a print copy of the president’s fiscal 2015 budget request, said he is eager to craft a budget that reaches a surplus within the next decade. Some tough calls Though Perdue missed out on the Armed Services Committee — an early setback that broke Georgia’s four-decade streak on the committee — he did get on Agriculture, as he hoped. There, Perdue will be chairman of the Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry and Natural Resources, where he will scrutinize the Environmental Protection Agency. On the floor, there has been a flurry of votes on amendments related to the Keystone pipeline. In one case, Perdue and fellow Georgia Republican Johnny Isakson changed their votes on an amendment that would have reauthorized the Land and Water Conservation Fund. They supported it at first but flipped to no after a discussion with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. Perdue said the vote switch, first reported by Politico, came after McConnell told them that passing the amendment could complicate resolving the Keystone bill with the House version — delaying the bill’s arrival on the president’s desk. In addition, Perdue said, he was always concerned with approving the fund permanently without first getting the budget under control. Another tricky early decision involved President Barack Obama’s nominee for attorney general, Loretta Lynch. Perdue caused a minor stir among conservative activists by speaking kindly of Lynch after her confirmation hearing last month before Perdue and the Senate Judiciary Committee. “There was a lot of talk out there about whether he was standing with the attorney general,” said Jeanne Seaver of the Savannah Tea Party early this week. Seaver added, given Lynch’s stated backing of Obama’s immigration actions: “I feel confident that I don’t think that (Perdue) will support Lynch.” Eventually, Perdue announced he would oppose Lynch, after reviewing her testimony, citing her position on Obama’s “amnesty.” Staying on course Isakson, who is running for a third Senate term next year, said Perdue has taken the right path so far, from the staff he’s hired — a mix of campaign and Washington veterans — to the bills he co-sponsors. “One of the things I admire about what he’s doing is he’s keeping every single one of his campaign promises in things he’s sponsored, things he’s doing,” Isakson said. Among those items are instituting a national sales tax to replace income and payroll taxes and limiting U.S. senators to two terms. Both are not much more popular than denim on the Senate floor, but that doesn’t bother Perdue. “I ran as an outsider,” Perdue said. “I’m going to do this job as an outsider. I didn’t come here to just govern. I came here to make a difference and try to change the direction of our country.” Click here to view the article on the AJC.
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Support Ashton Carter for Secretary of Defense WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today voted to confirm Dr. Ashton Carter as Secretary of Defense. Carter was unanimously confirmed by the Senate Armed Services Committee on Feb. 10, 2015, and was confirmed today by the full Senate in a 93-5 vote. “America faces many diverse and complex challenges to our national security – from the serious threat posed by the Islamic State to the crisis in Ukraine to the security risks from Boko Haram – and we need a strong Secretary of Defense now more than ever,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “The next Secretary of Defense must honestly assess the military’s needs in order to successfully fulfill its mission to degrade and defeat ISIS. I am encouraged that Dr. Carter has shown independent judgment and a willingness not to be a rubber stamp for the White House as we continue our mission to combat terrorists around the globe. Additionally, I expect Dr. Carter to instill a culture of accountability at the Department of Defense that ensures our national security remains a top priority and guarantees our servicemen and women are prepared to successfully carry out their missions. At a time when we cannot afford to let Iran gain access to nuclear weapons or allow the further destabilization of Eastern Europe, it is imperative for us to ensure that the U.S. military remains the world's premier fighting force.” “In these challenging times, we need a Secretary of Defense who understands the importance of fiscal responsibility, while protecting our national security,” Senator Perdue said. “As Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, Dr. Carter successfully implemented new technologies and resources needed to maintain our military readiness, while applying appropriate oversight to help save the Defense Department billions of dollars. Dr. Carter also understands that we cannot allow Iran to have nuclear weapon capabilities, and that the threat of terrorism is still very real. I am confident that Dr. Carter will continue to propel the Pentagon to work more efficiently and effectively, while protecting our long-term national security interests at home and around the world.”
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Senator David Perdue: GAO Report Highlights Areas of Opportunity for Government Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today expressed concern about the findings of the Government Accountability Office’s 2015 High Risk Report. The report highlights 32 areas within the federal government that are vulnerable to fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement. “Our federal government has completely fallen out of touch with what the Founders intended. Washington is addicted to runaway spending, inefficiency, and intrusiveness. It’s time for a real gut check as far as these outrageous spending habits are concerned. “According to the GAO report, the three largest disability benefit programs - which cost about a quarter trillion dollars every year - ‘rely on outdated criteria to determine whether individuals should qualify for benefits.’ This is absurd. It is critical that we work to reform these programs in order to protect hardworking taxpayers, our national balance sheet, and the people who need access to these programs the most. “The GAO report also underscores the need for the Veterans Affairs Department to finally address its failure to provide timely health care to our nation’s heroes. I am confident that Senator Johnny Isakson, Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, has already begun to address these concerns directly. “As an outsider, what Washington sees as areas of high risk, can also be considered areas of opportunity for cost reduction and increased effectiveness. Without proper planning and appropriate oversight these spending problems will persist. The GAO report identifies several areas where we can take action immediately, but we must actively review all areas of government for much-needed reforms.= “Georgians are frustrated with Washington’s lack of accountability, and I will work every day to grow our economy, get our fiscal house in order, and make our government more transparent to the American taxpayer.” Click here to read the report.
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Senator David Perdue Opposes Attorney General Nominee Loretta Lynch WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced that he will oppose the nomination of Loretta Lynch for Attorney General: “While Ms. Lynch may have an impressive resume, she did not adequately answer the committee’s questions nor alleviate my concerns about the consistency with which she applies our nation’s laws. After thoroughly reviewing her record and testimony, I am not confident she will defend the Constitution, especially when the President seeks to abuse his power. “We need an Attorney General who will maintain independence and will put the law above partisan politics. I strongly disagree with her support for the President’s executive action on amnesty, which is both unlawful and unconstitutional. Ultimately, Ms. Lynch’s actions and answers did not demonstrate that she will consistently enforce the law and uphold our Constitution.”
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Senator David Perdue Applauds Bipartisan, Bicameral Passage of Keystone Jobs Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the House of Representatives for once again passing legislation to create the Keystone XL Pipeline. The bill passed the House 270-152 and passed the Senate with a 62-36 vote. “Now it’s official: the bipartisan Keystone jobs bill that I cosponsored in the Senate has overwhelming support from the House. Georgians, and all Americans, have demanded that Congress function again and pass bills that get our economy going, and the Keystone bill does just that. With its creation, the Keystone XL pipeline will create tens of thousands of jobs, it will get us closer to energy independence, and will help lower energy costs for families and small businesses. “This bipartisan, bicameral jobs bill is a commonsense approach to jumpstart our economy. The President has simply run out of excuses. It’s time the President sign this bill into law instead of playing politics and pandering to special interests. Together, both the Executive and Legislative branches have a great opportunity to help the middle class and get people working again in America.”
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Senator David Perdue Cosponsors Balanced Budget Amendment: Continues to Advance Georgians’ Top Priorities In U.S. Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today, along with Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and 52 other Senators, cosponsored a Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) to the Constitution. The Balanced Budget Amendment would require total expenditures for any fiscal year to not exceed total receipts for that fiscal year. Senator Perdue continues to advance Georgians’ top priorities and has already cosponsored legislation in support of building the Keystone Pipeline, rolling back regulations, fully repealing Obamacare, advancing the Fair Tax, and implementing term limits. “Georgians sent me to the Senate to help end the dysfunction in Washington and to get our economy back on track. In turn, I promised Georgians that I would immediately cut this outrageous spending, start solving our debt crisis, and finally balance the budget. That’s why I am proud to cosponsor a Balanced Budget Amendment to Constitutionally require the federal government to get its fiscal house in order. “The United States is in a full-blown fiscal crisis, and we are handing our kids and grandkids $18 trillion of debt, as well as tens of trillions of dollars in unfunded liabilities down the road. Yet year after year, Washington is perfectly comfortable with giant budget deficits. For the sake of our economic and national security, and the future of our country, this has to stop. “As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, I will continue to advocate commonsense ideas like the Balanced Budget Amendment that will help grow our economy. Every Georgia family understands you can’t spend more money than you take in without going bankrupt. Washington should not be able to continue to pile deficits on top of our already enormous debt without being held accountable.”
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Senator David Perdue Proud To Support Bipartisan Legislation to Prevent Veteran Suicide WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today voted for the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. Named after Clay Hunt, a young veteran who took his life in 2011, the bipartisan bill would improve mental health care and suicide prevention resources for American service members. The bill passed both chambers of Congress unanimously. “Twenty two veterans commit suicide every day, and that is nothing short of a national tragedy,” said Senator Perdue. “Georgia has a large veteran population, and I’m proud to support commonsense legislation like this to help our nation’s heroes. I’m glad that both sides of the aisle were able to reach quick agreement on this bill, because keeping promises to our veterans must be one of the federal government’s biggest priorities.” The bill requires the Pentagon and Department of Veterans Affairs to: Submit to independent review of their suicide prevention programs Make information on suicide prevention more available to veterans Offer financial incentives to mental health professionals who agree to work for the VA and help the veteran community.
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Senators Isakson, Perdue Fight to Fully Repeal Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) today co-sponsored legislation to fully repeal Obamacare. The Obamacare Repeal Act was introduced by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and has 44 co-sponsors. The legislation would fully repeal Obamacare effective 180 days after its enactment, allowing Congress and the states six months to develop and vote on new patient-centered health care reform. “Since the day that Obamacare was signed into law, I have worked to repeal it because of its terrible consequences for America’s families and small businesses,” said Senator Isakson. “Hardly a day goes by when I don’t hear from Georgians who are seeing the cost of their health care go up, or who can’t keep their insurance or continue seeing their doctor, all because of Obamacare. This entire law is fundamentally flawed and must be taken out root and branch. We need commonsense solutions that improve the cost and quality of health care through competition and choice, rather than imposing job-killing taxes, mandates, and penalties on the American people.” “Georgia families and small businesses, as well as people all over the country, have been hurt by the effects of Obamacare,” said Senator Perdue. “Since this disastrous law has been put in place, millions of people have been denied access to their doctors and the cost of healthcare has continued to skyrocket. Obamacare has prevented businesses from hiring and slashed employees’ hours, further damaging our economy. I’m proud to stand with the people of Georgia in rejecting this flawed law, because Obamacare has hurt the middle class for too long and now it must go.”
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Senator David Perdue Calls For Fiscal Responsibility WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today called for fiscal responsibility, as President Obama released yet another budget that never balances and adds to the national debt. In a statement, Senator Perdue said: “The President’s budget drastically misses the mark. Once again, the President proposes his Washington-knows-best approach of higher taxes, more spending, and bigger government. Handing our kids and grandkids even more debt like this is downright irresponsible. “Georgians sent me to the Senate to stop this insanity, and finally take some serious steps to tackle our full-blown fiscal crisis now – not down the road. We already have a growing debt of $18 trillion, plus tens of trillions of dollars of unfunded future liabilities – that is unsustainable. “We need a new path that moves toward a balanced budget. I am fully committed to fight every day to cut out-of-control spending and make the federal government more efficient, effective, and accountable to the American people.”
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Isakson, Perdue, Carter Statement of Support for Savannah Harbor Expansion Project WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today applauded the inclusion of new construction funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in the president’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget. The administration’s budget request includes $29.7 million for the Savannah harbor -- $21.05 million for the expansion project and an additional $8.66 million to dispose of the dredging waste in Georgia and South Carolina -- in Fiscal Year 2016. In addition, the budget lists the project for the first time as an ongoing construction project in order to keep this vital economic infrastructure project on track for future federal funding. “After the shock and disappointment we felt last year when SHEP was omitted from the president’s budget, the inclusion of funding today for our state’s number one economic development project in the president’s budget is welcome but long overdue,” said Senator Isakson. “In addition to providing funding in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget, I’m pleased the Army Corps of Engineers has indicated that it is also working to secure an additional $21 million dedicated to the Savannah project in the Corps’ budget for this year’s FY15 budget.” “This victory for SHEP and our state is the result of many years of work and partnership between many people, including Governor Deal, former Senator Saxby Chambliss and former Congressman Jack Kingston,” Isakson continued. “The expansion and deepening of the Port of Savannah has been a top priority of mine since coming to the Senate in 2005 and I am so pleased to see this critical project get underway.” “I am very disappointed it has taken nearly 17 years to get this done. After all, we’re only talking about deepening the harbor five feet,” said Senator Perdue. “I applaud Georgia’s Governors who have consistently committed the state’s portion of funds for this project. This is a necessary infrastructure investment in order for the Savannah Port to remain competitive. At a time when we are spending more money than we are taking in, every federal government expenditure needs to be scrutinized. That said, expanding the Savannah Harbor should be a priority because it is an infrastructure investment that creates jobs and grows the economy.” “I am thrilled to see that the President has finally decided to stop playing games and provide what is needed to allow this vital project to move forward after Georgia’s tireless fight for almost two decades,” Representative Carter said. “I hope the Obama Administration will continue to honor its commitment to SHEP and match the dedication of the state. While I know we still have a lot of work to do, the start of construction last week and the news today are strong steps to seeing this important project become a reality.” SHEP has broad bipartisan support from Georgia’s local, state and federal leaders. The president previously included SHEP in his 2012 “We Can’t Wait” initiative, in which he specifically pledged to expedite SHEP and four other port projects. The final Project Partnership Agreement between the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Georgia Department of Transportation and the Georgia Ports Authority to allow construction to begin on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was signed on October 8, 2014. More information on the Savannah Harbor Expansion project is available here. Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels travelling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters. ###
01.30.2015	01.30.15 Isakson, Perdue Cosponsor Bill to Protect Americans from IRS Political Targeting WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., this week cosponsored legislation to stop the Internal Revenue Service from implementing its proposal to severely curtail the First Amendment rights of citizen-led 501(c)(4) groups. The Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act was introduced by U.S. Sens. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Pat Roberts, R-Kan., and is cosponsored by 33 additional senators. The bill would stop further attempts by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to exploit bureaucratic loopholes to restrict the free speech rights of the same types of tax-exempt social welfare organizations victimized in the IRS political targeting scandal. “Our Founding Fathers put freedom of speech in the First Amendment to the Constitution for a reason, and I am proud to join my colleagues in ensuring that our Constitutional rights are preserved for groups of all political beliefs,” said Senator Isakson, who is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees the IRS. “I will continue to do all that I can to end the corruption and politicization we’ve seen within the IRS.” “Far too many people, including Georgians, have been targeted by the IRS for their personal beliefs, and this legislation will put a permanent stop to it,” said Senator Perdue. “The IRS’s abuse of power is emblematic of what’s wrong with Washington today: the federal government has lost sight of what our Founders intended. It’s a sad day for the American people and our Constitution that we even need to create legislation to reinforce the protection of our right to free speech and free thought. With conviction, I am a cosponsor of this this bill because we must do everything we can to ensure that Americans are guaranteed their Constitutional rights.” Specifically, this legislation would prohibit the Obama Administration’s scandal-plagued IRS from advancing rules or regulations to further restrict the permissible civic activities of social welfare organizations under Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code beyond those limitations that were in place on January 1, 2010 – prior to the agency’s inappropriate targeting of conservative nonprofits. Sens. Isakson and Perdue are also original cosponsors of the Fair Tax Act of 2015, which would abolish the IRS, repeal all federal income and payroll taxes and replace them with a revenue-neutral, personal consumption tax. Background: On Nov. 29, 2013, the Department of Treasury published a proposed IRS rule that would broadly define 501(c)(4) political activity to include voter registration, voter education, communications that mention a candidate or party, grants to 527s, and events in which a candidate participates, among other activities. Even non-partisan activities would be limited. The regulations specifically single out 501(c)(4) organizations, and do not apply to other nonprofit organizations such as charities, labor unions or trade associations. The administration has already faced harsh criticism for earlier attempts by the IRS to target these same organizations. On May 14, 2013, the Treasury’s inspector general for tax administration released a report finding that the IRS had inappropriately targeted and applied excessive scrutiny to the applications of conservative groups applying for 501(c)(4) tax-exempt status. Several IRS employees, including the acting commissioner, resigned as a result of the scandal. Investigations by the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Department of Justice are ongoing.
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Isakson, Perdue Co-sponsor ‘Audit the Fed’ legislation WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., today co-sponsored S.264, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2015, legislation introduced by U.S. Senator Rand Paul, R-Ky., that would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a comprehensive and independent audit of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2015 would mandate an audit of the Federal Reserve by the Comptroller General of the United States, who is the head of GAO, be reported to the leadership of Congress, along with the leadership of the committees of jurisdiction. The audit would be completed by the end of 2015. “I have long been an advocate of sunshine laws, and better oversight by Congress of all agencies of the federal government,” said Isakson. “This legislation will help us determine areas that need improvement and shed additional light on a system that has a significant impact on the U.S. economy via the national, monetary policy decisions it makes. There is more need for accountability across the board.” “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation is exactly what Georgians expect out of Washington,” said Perdue. “Every aspect of our government should operate in a transparent manner which is accountable to the people, and the Federal Reserve is no different. A timely and comprehensive audit of the Federal Reserve will finally unveil the full scope of consequences their policies have on our economy.” Isakson has previously co-sponsored the bipartisan Federal Transparency Act in 2014 to require an audit to be completed within 12 months of the bill’s enactment. In 2013, Isakson co-sponsored S.209, the Federal Reserve Sunshine Act of 2013, which would have mandated an audit of the Federal Reserve by the Comptroller General of the United States to be reported to the leadership of Congress, along with the leadership of committees of jurisdiction. Click here to read the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2015.
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Senator David Perdue Applauds Senate Passage of Keystone Jobs Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today applauded the Senate for passing legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline: “I’m proud to have cosponsored the bipartisan Keystone jobs bill, because it benefits Americans in so many ways,” said Senator Perdue. “It will create tens of thousands of jobs, it will get us closer to energy independence, and will help lower energy costs for families and small businesses. “Over the past few weeks, the new Republican majority has demonstrated that the Senate is functional again. For too long, Georgians, and people all over America, have been frustrated with the gridlock in Washington – and rightfully so. But amendments offered to this bill surpassed the total amount of amendments offered all of last year. Now that we’re actually debating bills again, we can work towards lowering our debt and getting Americans back to work. “It’s encouraging that so many of my Senate colleagues share the urgency to get this project moving so it can help our lagging economy. I urge the President to reconsider his veto threat of this important jobs bill. The President’s support for this bill will be seen as an important step towards a better working relationship with Congress.”
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Senator David Perdue Named Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Chairman WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) today announced that Senator David Perdue (R-GA) will serve as Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development. This subcommittee will have responsibility for reviewing the budget and operations of the State Department and USAID. “For the last six years, the President’s aimless foreign policy has confused our allies and emboldened our enemies,” said Senator Perdue. “Recent terror attacks around the world serve to remind us that the War on Terror is far from over. “From the debatable effectiveness of our foreign aid programs to the tragedy that took place in Benghazi, Georgians know that current foreign policy decisions are not making America any safer. Through serious oversight of the budget process we will make sure taxpayer dollars are spent responsibly, while protecting our national interests. “As chairman, I will work to review the structure and operations of these important agencies to ensure an effective foreign policy that achieves our long-term strategic goals.” The Subcommittee’s responsibilities include: All matters involving the State Department U.S. Agency for International Development Millennium Challenge Corporation Peace Corps management and international operations Bilateral international development policy, and bilateral foreign assistance. The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight of management and operations of: The State Department U.S. Agency for International Development Broadcasting Board of Governors Foreign Service Public diplomacy matters
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Senator David Perdue Named Senate Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) today announced that Senator David Perdue (R-GA) will serve as Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry, and Natural Resources. The subcommittee is responsible for oversight on the EPA’s regulation of pesticides, conservation of natural resources, biotechnology, and forestry. Senator Perdue will also serve on two other Agriculture subcommittees: Commodities, Risk Management, and Trade and Rural Development and Energy. “I’m proud to represent Georgia’s strong and vibrant agricultural community,” said Senator Perdue. “My goal is to make sure that the EPA doesn’t insidiously burden our farmers, and that we continue to foster growth and innovation across our largest industry. As chairman of this subcommittee, I’ll work to ensure that Georgia’s agricultural interests are protected and that our homegrown products are promoted around the world.” “I am pleased to have Senator Perdue on the Committee and I look forward to the business experience and family farm background that he brings to our work on behalf of American agriculture,” Chairman Roberts said. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry and Natural Resources, Senator Perdue will provide Georgians with leadership in these areas at a time when issues like pesticides and biotechnology are hotly debated across farm country.” The Subcommittee’s responsibilities include: Conservation and protection of natural resources Regulation of pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act Forestry The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight of management and operations of: National Resources Conservation Service Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Biotechnology The Forest Service
01.27.2015	01.27.15 Senator David Perdue Calls On The Obama Administration To Embrace America’s Energy Abundance WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today made the following statement about the Department of Interior’s Draft Proposed Program to include Georgia as a potential site in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022: “Energy exploration along the Atlantic coast can help strengthen our economic and national security, but the Obama Administration’s draft proposal fails to consult Georgians on our state’s energy needs and prevents other states from unlocking their full energy potential. “While it’s beneficial for Georgians to have access to offshore energy production, it’s unfortunate that the Obama Administration treats energy policy as a bait-and-switch scheme. Taking energy-rich parts of Alaska off the table is irresponsible and unnecessary. We need to advance all-of-the above energy solutions that benefit all Americans. “It’s unconscionable that the United States government still does not have a coherent energy strategy. I call upon the Obama Administration to work with states and Congress on developing sound energy policy. In turn, I will work with my Senate colleagues to harness our country’s abundance of energy in order to create American jobs, promote our national security, and lower energy costs for Georgia families.” The Department of Interior’s announcement includes the following decisions: Invites public comment on one potential lease sale late in the program for a portion of the Mid- and South Atlantic OCS, which includes areas offshore Virginia, North and South Carolina and Georgia Designates portions of the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas off Alaska’s coast as off limits from consideration for future oil and gas leasing Proposes two annual lease sales in the Western, Central, and the portion of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico that is not subject to Congressional moratoria.
01.26.2015	01.26.15 Senator David Perdue Calls For Sense of Fiscal Urgency WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s Budget and Economic Outlook, which concludes that our $18 trillion debt will skyrocket to over $27 trillion over the next decade: “I didn’t come to Washington to sit idly by as lawmakers in both parties pretend the deficit is shrinking and that our national debt is not a concern. We have a genuine fiscal crisis on our hands. We’re already handing our kids and grandkids a national debt of over $18 trillion and tens of trillions of dollars of unfunded liabilities for entitlement programs. The latest CBO report shows that the deck is stacked to get even worse. “We need a sense of urgency to seriously tackle our national debt because of the threat it poses to our economy and national security. We need to break from the budget gimmicks and spending tricks that have been used by both parties in the past and finally balance our budget before it’s too late. We need to inject some honest accounting and real transparency into how we spend taxpayer dollars. “As a member of the Budget Committee, I look forward to working with both my Senate colleagues and House Budget Chairman Tom Price in the pursuit of a budget that reflects the tough decisions necessary to eliminate wasteful spending, prioritize our resources, and grow the economy.” Key Findings from the Budget and Economic Outlook: • Real GDP growth will average just 2.3 percent annually over the next 10 years – below the historical average of 3.3 percent. • Annual deficits are projected to begin rising again and will skyrocket to $1.1 trillion by 2025. • Spending on Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid will each nearly double over the next decade. Click here to view the full CBO report.
01.22.2015	01.22.15 Senator David Perdue Cosponsors Legislation To Roll Back Regulations & Hold Government Accountable WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today cosponsored the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act to prevent the executive branch and federal agencies from imposing costly and burdensome regulations on Georgia families and business: “Our economy is lagging due to many factors, but one of the most prominent is the impact of harmful federal regulations coming from Washington,” said Senator Perdue. “The Executive Branch, under President Obama, has tried to rule by regulatory mandate. As a result, expensive and burdensome regulations often get determined by Washington bureaucrats without the approval of Congress or the American people’s knowledge. Restoring transparency and accountability will provide a Congressional check to abuses of the system. That way, we can roll back insidious regulations that hurt Georgia families and businesses, and prevent future regulations from being put into place without considering their full economic impact.” The REINS Act would require any executive branch rule or regulation that is defined as a “major rule” by the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to come before Congress for an up-or-down vote. A “major rule” is one that has one of the following negative consequences: An annual effect on the economy of $100,000,000 or more; A major increases in costs or prices for consumers individual industries, Federal, State, or local government agencies, or geographic regions; Significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or ability of U.S.-based enterprises to compete in the international market. Click here to read the REINS Act.
01.20.2015	01.20.15 Senator David Perdue Delivers Video Address To Georgians WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today delivered the following address to Georgians, which lays out his priorities in the Senate and how he will work to make life better for all Georgians. Click here to watch the full video: “Good evening, I’m David Perdue. While it’s only been a few weeks, I can tell you one thing, I’m still the outsider in Washington. What’s sorely missing from the debate is a real sense of urgency to tackle our full-blown fiscal crisis. That’s why I’m here. “Too many people are out of work, or have stopped looking for jobs altogether. Costs for health care and education continue to skyrocket. We are now handing our kids and grandkids a mountain of debt of $18 trillion and counting. This is just unconscionable. It’s unnecessary. And it is a grave threat to our economy and our national security. “Clearly, the current path isn’t working. Yet, what we continue to hear from the President is more of the same. Georgians see through this empty rhetoric. They expect and deserve more from their government. They want and deserve results. “That’s why I have hit the ground running to get Washington working again for the people of Georgia and the people of this country. To bring functionality, transparency, and accountability back to the process. “In my first few weeks in the Senate, I introduced a Georgia-based solution called the Fair Tax, co-sponsored the bipartisan Keystone jobs bill, and also co-sponsored a term limits resolution that I want to start having an active debate on, immediately. “These are great first steps, but we have a lot more work to do to solve our debt crisis. First, we need to cut this outrageous spending. Next, in order to grow the economy, we need to simplify our tax code, roll back regulations, and unleash our full energy potential. “It’s time for the President to get serious about working with Congress to get things done, not circumvent the Constitution every chance he gets. “My commitment is to fight every day for you and your family, to put Georgia first, and to make sure that Washington doesn’t get in the way. Together, we can make some real changes and get the government working for the people – for us – again. Thank you, and God bless you.” ###
01.18.2015	01.18.15 Senator David Perdue Honors Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s Legacy ATLANTA, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue today released the following statement in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s lasting legacy: “Today, we reflect upon Dr. Martin Luther King’s heroic dedication to the advancement of liberty,” said Senator Perdue. “A man of faith, family, and integrity, Dr. King’s words and actions remain an inspiration to all Americans. Dr. King reminds us that, despite disappointment, we must ‘never lose infinite hope.’ And it is my hope that we honor his legacy by working to expand liberty and opportunity for all Americans and future generations.” ###
01.16.2015	01.16.15 Senator David Perdue To Represent All Georgians In U.S. Senate MACON, GA – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today participated in a ceremonial swearing-in bringing together family, friends, supporters, and community leaders in Georgia. “It is truly humbling that the people of Georgia have tasked me to represent them and their interests in the United States Senate. I am ready to get to work with our senior Senator Johnny Isakson and my other colleagues in order to make the Senate functional again. The time of bickering is over, and the time for solutions is now. “The federal government has often acted with the best intentions, but the results have been disastrous for Georgia families. As a result of these bad policies, our economy continues to lurch along, healthcare is more expensive and harder to access, and our kids and grandkids have been left with a mountain of debt. I will bring a fresh perspective and sense of urgency to the Senate and fight every day to get our economy moving again and to get Washington out of the way of hardworking Georgians.” The ceremony was conducted at the W.A. Bootle Federal Courthouse in Macon, Georgia. Chief Judge Clay Land presided over the ceremony. Former Governor Sonny Perdue and other members of Senator Perdue’s family were also in attendance. Follow Senator Perdue on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram to stay up to speed about his work in Washington to help Georgia families. ###
01.12.2015	01.12.15 Senators Moran, Perdue Introduce Fair Tax Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and David Perdue (R-Ga.) today introduced legislation to overhaul and simplify the American tax system. The bill, based upon a proposed tax system known as the “FairTax,” would replace our complicated and costly tax system with a flat national consumption tax and eventually close the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). “Overhauling the American tax system is not an easy undertaking, but the economic need for a leaner and fairer tax code has never been greater,” Senator Moran said. “Reducing costly inefficiencies and the burden of filing taxes should be a priority in this Congress. The FairTax would place all taxpayers on equal footing, protect Americans from government intrusion by the IRS, boost business growth, and incentivize savings and investment – all while collecting revenue at levels similar to those of our current mess of a tax code.” “In order for America’s economy to thrive in today’s international economy, we must remain competitive,” said Senator Perdue. “Instituting the FairTax will level the playing field and make America the best place in the world to do business. The FairTax is smart policy that will help protect hardworking Georgians and all American taxpayers.” The FairTax would repeal all federal personal income taxes, corporate income taxes, payroll taxes, self-employment taxes, capital gains taxes and gift and estate taxes, and replace those with a revenue-neutral, personal consumption tax on all retail sales of new goods and services. U.S. Representative Bob Woodall (R-Ga.) has introduced the companion bill, H.R. 25, in the House of Representatives. “The FairTax Act deserves to be heard in a committee setting, debated, and given an up or down vote,” Senator Moran continued. “This tax reform proposal would have a positive impact on millions of taxpayers, allowing Americans to once again be in charge of their lives and money.” “Americans For Fair Taxation® is thrilled that Senators Jerry Moran and David Perdue are leading the fight for real tax reform,” said Steve Hayes, Chairman and President, Americans For Fair Taxation. “The Senators' sponsorship of the FairTax® serves notice that it is time for Congress to stand with the American people and enact the only tax replacement plan that will generate jobs, stimulate the economy and free the American people from the shackles of a punitive and out-of-control IRS.” Click here to read the legislative text of the FairTax Act. ###
01.11.2015	01.11.15 Senator David Perdue Announces Senate Staff to Serve People of Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today announced the appointments of his staff in the United States Senate: “Georgians sent me to Washington to tackle our nation’s toughest issues, and they can be confident that we’ve selected a strong team to serve our constituents and help me get our country back on track,” said Senator Perdue. “This team shares my sense of urgency to make a difference and fight for a brighter future for all Georgians and all Americans.” Washington Staff: Derrick Dickey, Chief of Staff PJ Waldrop, Legislative Director Megan Whittemore, Communications Director Mark Bednar, Press Secretary Gabriele Forsyth, Scheduler Katherine Short, Deputy Scheduler Caleb Moore, Director of Operations John Eunice, General Counsel Rachel Santos, Legislative Assistant Gerald Huang, Legislative Assistant Lindsey Maxwell, Correspondence Director Lauren Hancock, Legislative Correspondent Drew Robinson, Legislative Correspondent Steve Rice, Legislative Correspondent Evan Karanovich, Special Assistant Sarah Schatz, Staff Assistant Nell Henson, Staff Assistant Katie McCabe, Staff Assistant Georgia Staff: Joyce White, State Director Sarah Baska, Assistant to the State Director Martha Zoller, State Policy Director Elizabeth Dale, Outreach Coordinator Stami Williams, Field Representative Ben Ayres, Field Representative Mark Smith, Field Representative Jennifer Hayes, Constituent Services Director Annette Stokes, Constituent Services Representative Katherine Booth, Constituent Services Representative Terri Dann, Constituent Services Representative Senator Perdue was sworn-in on January 6, 2015. For the 114th Congress, Senator Perdue serves on the Agriculture, Nutrition & Forestry Committee; Budget Committee; Foreign Relations Committee; Judiciary Committee; and the Special Committee on Aging. Each of these committees will play an important role in serving the people of Georgia. Senator Perdue currently has a temporary Washington office located in the Dirksen Senate Office Building (B40D) and will soon be opening a Georgia office located in Atlanta. Constituents can contact Senator Perdue’s temporary Senate office by calling 202-224-3521 to reach both our Washington and Georgia staff. Follow Senator Perdue on Twitter and Facebook to stay up to speed about his work in Washington to help Georgia families. ###
01.08.2015	01.08.15 Isakson, Perdue Announce Georgia Students Selected for U.S. Senate Youth Program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., today announced that two Georgia students have been selected as delegates to the 53rd annual United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) that will be held March 7 through 14, 2015, in Washington, D.C. Kylon Harris of Americus, Ga., and Jacob Pierce of Conley, Ga., were chosen to be part of the group of 104 student delegates who will attend the program’s 53rd annual Washington Week. While in Washington, the student delegates will attend meetings and briefings with senators, House representatives, congressional staff, the president, a justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an ambassador to the United States and senior members of the national media. The students will also tour many of the national monuments and several museums. “The selection of Kylon Harris and Jacob Pierce to represent Georgia in the Senate Youth Program speaks volumes about their character and commitment to service,” said Senator Isakson. “They set a positive example for their peers, and I looking forward to welcoming Kylon and Jacob to Washington during their trip.” “It’s easy to be proud to be from Georgia, but Kylon Harris and Jacob Pierce make it even easier,” said Senator Perdue. “Their dedication to both their schools and their communities are truly impressive, and I am excited to meet them when they come to Washington on behalf of all Georgia students.” Kylon Harris, a senior at Americus-Sumter County High School, in Americus, Ga., is a member of the National Senior Beta Club and serves as the president of the Student Government Association. In addition to a rigorous advanced placement and honors curriculum, he is also dual enrolled at Georgia Southwestern State University. His leadership positions include serving as a JROTC executive officer and serving on the Superintendent’s Student Cabinet for more than four years. Kylon will attend Syracuse University in Syracuse, N.Y., on a four-year full tuition leadership scholarship. He plans to major in education prior to pursuing a professional law degree. Jacob Pierce attends Druid Hills High School in Atlanta, Ga., and serves as the student body president and as a member of the DeKalb Student Advisory Committee. Jacob is involved with many clubs within his school, including National Honors Society, Beta Club and a peer mentoring program, Each One Reach One, which he co-founded. Additionally, he has served as a student representative to the DeKalb School Board. He was also a member of Druid Hills’ school improvement team, and participated in the Georgia Governor’s Honors program. Jacob hopes to attend Georgetown University, in Washington, D.C., and after graduating with a degree in public policy or economics, he plans to start his career in public service locally. Chosen as alternates to the 2015 program were Kayla Evans, a resident of Douglasville, Ga., who attends Douglas County High School and Britton Edelen, a resident of Athens, Ga., who attends Oconee County High School. The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates after nomination by teachers and principals. This year’s delegates were designated by Dr. John D. Barge, former state superintendent of schools. Each year this extremely competitive merit-based program brings 104 of the most outstanding high school students — two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity — to Washington, D.C. for an intensive week-long study of the federal government and the people who lead it. The overall mission of the program is to help instill within each class of USSYP student delegates more profound knowledge of the American political process and a lifelong commitment to public service. In addition to the program week, The Hearst Foundations provide each student with a $5,000 undergraduate college scholarship with encouragement to continue coursework in government, history and public affairs. Transportation and all expenses for Washington Week are also provided by The Hearst Foundations; no government funds are utilized. The USSYP was created by S.Res.324 in 1962 and has been sponsored by the Senate and fully funded by The Hearst Foundations since inception. In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, the student delegates generally rank academically in the top 1 percent of their states among high school juniors and seniors. # # #
01.06.2015	01.06.15 Senator David Perdue Cosponsors Resolution for Congressional Term Limits Fulfils Top Campaign Promise to People of Georgia WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) today took action on one of his top priorities and co-sponsored a Constitutional Amendment imposing term limits on U.S. Representatives and Senators: “Instituting term limits for members of Congress is one of my biggest priorities in the Senate, and long over-due. Washington is broken, and I believe that term limits will help ensure that federal lawmakers will focus on the people they represent instead of their re-election campaigns. As one of my first official acts as Georgia’s junior Senator, I’m proud to stand with my Senate colleagues for this proposal, and invite all Senators who believe we need to fix Washington to support it.” On January 6, 2015, Senator Perdue joined Senator David Vitter as one of the original co-sponsors of a Constitutional Amendment resolution that will set term limits for members of Congress: two terms in the Senate and three terms in the House of Representatives. If a person is elected to fill an unexpired term and holds the seat for more than one year in the House, then that term counts towards the three term maximum. If a person is appointed to fill an unexpired term and serves for at least three years, then that time served counts as one term in the Senate. Finally, if the Amendment is ratified by the states then no term beginning prior to that ratification would count toward the three terms allowed in the House or the two terms allowed in the Senate. Follow Senator Perdue’s official accounts on Twitter and on Facebook to stay up to speed about his work in Washington to help Georgia families. ###
01.06.2015	01.06.15 Isakson, Perdue Co-sponsor Bipartisan Legislation to Approve Keystone XL Pipeline in New Congress Urge President Obama to support commonsense, bipartisan, job-creating legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., co-sponsored legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline, highlighting the importance of the project to secure America's energy future, improve national defense and create tens of thousands of jobs for Americans. “As the new majority, Republicans’ first action in the Senate will be approving the bipartisan, job-creating Keystone XL pipeline,” Sens. Isakson and Perdue said in a joint statement. “The American people are still struggling in today’s economy, and they expect and deserve Washington to cut red tape and unleash America’s energy resources, which will create American jobs, ensure America’s energy security and reinforce relations with our largest trading partner. Building the Keystone XL pipeline is an important step toward meeting these goals. “We’ve had six years of missed opportunities for the Senate, under Democratic control, to take up legislation that addresses Americans’ priorities. It’s time we start putting America’s issues on the president’s desk. We urge the president to reconsider his threat to veto the bipartisan, job-creating Keystone XL pipeline and to finally take the opportunity to work with Congress to find solutions the American people want.”? Background: The $7 billion, 1,700-mile, high-tech Keystone XL pipeline will carry 830,000 barrels of oil a day to U.S. refineries, including oil from Alberta, Canada, in addition to 100,000 barrels per day of light, sweet crude from the U.S. Bakken region in North Dakota and Montana. During the construction phase, the project would create up to 42,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, according to the U.S. State Department. S.1 was introduced by U.S. Senators John Hoeven, R-N.D., Tuesday, and is co-sponsored by all other Republican senators in addition to six Democrats. The legislation authorizes TransCanada to construct and operate the Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf Coast under Congress’s authority enumerated in the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8. Upon passage, a presidential permit would no longer be needed to approve the project. The Keystone XL pipeline project has been under review for more than six years, with five environmental reports completed to date. ###
01.05.2015	01.05.15 Senator David Perdue To Fight For Georgia Families In U.S. Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA) released the following statement after being sworn in as Georgia's junior Senator in the 114th Congress: “I am honored and humbled to be Georgia’s next Senator, and I am excited to work alongside my colleague Johnny Isakson. But I came to Washington for one reason: to make America better for future generations. Georgia families are frustrated with what they are getting from their federal government, and it’s easy to see why. The economy is not where it should be, Washington continues to squabble at the expense of moving our country in the right direction, and the Obama Administration continues to operate without transparency or any regard to the wishes of the American people. "As part of the new Senate majority, I am going to roll my sleeves up and get to work fighting for the people of Georgia. My commitment is to build consensus and work with my colleagues to produce results, but never compromise my principles. I hope to bring a fresh perspective and some business sense to the U.S. Senate. I want to prevent the unintended consequences politicians have put on Georgia’s businesses and families through sweeping legislation that too often doesn’t solve the problems Georgians face every day. I will work to put forward commonsense, conservative solutions to help Georgia families and to get our country back on track.” Watch video of Senator Perdue’s swearing-in from the Senate floor earlier today. Follow Senator Perdue’s official accounts on Twitter and on Facebook to stay up to speed about his work in Washington to help Georgia families. ###
